DRN-2735086
The complaint
Miss A complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclaycard) irresponsibly lent to her when it 
increased the credit limit on a credit card. She also complains that Barclaycard hasnt 
calculated redress fairly following a review.
What happened
Miss A raised a complaint about the lending on her credit card, and referred the matter to our 
service for review after receiving Barclaycards response. A final decision on the complaint 
was issued, and the ombudsman didnt find Barclaycard had acted unfairly. 
Following that final decision, Miss A received a letter from Barclaycard which said it was 
going to refund some of the interest and charges applied to the account. Barclaycard said it 
was doing that as part of internal review, and had agreed its approach with the Financial 
Conduct Authority. Miss A wasnt happy, and complained that the refund she was now being 
offered was evidence shed be irresponsibly lent to. Because of that, she felt further 
compensation was due. Barclaycard didnt respond to the complaint in time, and so the 
matter was referred to our service.
An investigator here said our service wasnt able to reconsider the complaint about 
irresponsible lending. Although an internal review had identified a fault in Barclaycards 
affordability calculator, the investigator said not all consumers had been affected. 
Barclaycard had taken a blanket approach to issuing refunds  versus our investigation 
which had assessed Miss As individual circumstances. So the investigator thought no 
further redress was due. 
Miss A didnt accept the investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules that govern our service are found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook, 
and are called The Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP). DISP 3.3.4A says the ombudsman 
may dismiss a complaint, without consideration of the merits, if dealing with it would 
otherwise seriously impair the services effective operation. One of the examples given, of 
what might seriously impair our effective operation, is where the subject matter of the 
complaint has previously been considered  unless material new evidence, which the 
Ombudsman considers likely to affect the outcome, has subsequently become available to 
the complainant. 
Miss A has previously had a final decision on her complaint about irresponsible lending on 
the credit card. The offer made as a result of Barclaycards review is new material 
information that has subsequently become available, but I dont consider it was likely to 
affect the outcome of the original complaint. Thats because Barclaycard decided to take a 
blanket approach to providing refunds, and not everyone who received one was necessarily 
affected by the issue found with its affordability calculator. But even if there was an issue 
with the affordability calculator when Miss A applied for the card and subsequently limit 
increases, that doesnt necessarily mean she was irresponsibly lent to. And an ombudsman 
here assessed her individual circumstances and decided she wasnt treated unfairly. So Im 
dismissing Miss As complaint about irresponsible lending, without consideration of the 
merits  as it has previously been looked at by us, and I dont consider this new evidence 
makes a difference.  
Miss A is also unhappy with Barclaycards refund calculations under the review  which, 
though connected to the irresponsible lending complaint, our service can consider as a 
separate matter. Miss A believes the refund should have been larger, given how much 
interest she paid towards the account during the period in question. She also argues that the 
distress and inconvenience part of the offer is too low  and doesnt cover the impact 
involved. 
I appreciate that significantly more interest will have been paid towards the account than 
what Barclaycard has offered. But the review only refunded interest paid when Miss A had 
fallen behind on payments  as well as the interest charged on interest and on the 
fees/charges. Ive reviewed the breakdown of the offer, and Im satisfied its been calculated 
in line with the scope of the review. So I find that no further refunds are due.
I also dont consider any further compensation is warranted, given our service has previously 
decided Miss A wasnt treated unfairly in respect of the lending on the credit card account. If 
that complaint wasnt upheld, then it follows that Barclaycard arent responsible for the 
impact Miss A has claimed should been compensated as part of the review. So the £75 
already offered, for the potential distress and inconvenience suffered, is fair in the 
circumstances.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dismiss Miss As complaint that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
irresponsibly lent to her on a credit card, and I dont uphold her complaint about the redress 
calculations following the review.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman