DRN-3588501
The complaint
Mr A complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mishandled his Direct Debits on a personal 
loan and credit card account.  
What happened
Mr A has made several complaint points which are linked to this one. But for the reasons 
given on a decision under another reference number at this service, and as explained by our 
Investigator, I will only be deciding the merits of the above complaint point.  
HSBC told Mr A it was ending its customer relationship with him in October 2021 and any 
existing Direct Debits instructions on his bank account would no longer be made. Mr As 
credit card and personal loan payments were made from his HSBC bank account. 
Contractual payments for the credit card and loan in November 2021 were missed. Mr A was 
charged a late fee on his credit card and he was sent a default notice to make payment for 
the one he had missed on his loan.
Mr A contacted HSBC in December 2021 about the arrears. He cleared the balance in full on 
the credit card. HSBC refunded his late fee, but erroneously did this twice  so Mr A was 
overpaid. Mr A also paid the missed payment for his loan account and set-up a new Direct 
Debit for future payments from his new bank account with a third-party bank.  
Mr A contacted HSBC later that month to say the Direct Debit had not been set up. But he 
was told it had and was due to be taken later in December. Mr A made a payment a few 
days before a Direct Debit payment was taken in December 2021. 
Mr A contacted HSBC about this and they refunded him the additional payment. Mr A 
complained about this and HSBC paid him £300 compensation and refunded him any fees 
and charged incurred. 
Unhappy with what happened, Mr A referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into the complaint and they recommended it should not be upheld. As 
Mr A doesnt agree, the complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. I know this will disappoint 
him, so Ill explain why. 
HSBCs letter to Mr A that it no longer wishes to provide him with any banking and credit 
facilities dated October 2021 says: 
We are formally advising you that your accounts are now being closed and that you 
should make alternative banking arrangements at another financial institution not part 
of the HSBC group. Any overdraft facilities have also been withdrawn
Your accounts have been suspended, pending our finalising arrangements for 
closure. We will pay no further items, such as cheques or Direct Debits, from your 
account and we must request that you do not attempt to pay any further funds into 
your accounts
Please also be advised that as part of this decision, your credit card facility has also 
been cancelled with immediate effect under clause 9 of the terms and conditions.  
We must request that you make no further use of the card in your possession and the 
card be destroyed
Im satisfied this letter from HSBC was unambiguous in setting out that Mr A needed to make 
alternative arrangements to meet his payment obligations for both his credit card and loan 
accounts. Unfortunately, it appears Mr A failed to make such arrangements and missed his 
November 2021 payments. 
It's apparent Mr A then paid off his credit card balance in December 2021 and any fees he 
incurred were refunded. I dont think HSBC have done anything wrong here.  
Its not clear why Mr A made a separate payment in December 2021 on his loan account 
when he was told a Direct Debit had been set-up. Its likely he was confused or worried that 
he would miss another payment. But his second payment was returned when this issue 
came to light by HSBC by virtue of the £300 compensation. So Mr A hasnt lost out here. 
I note two payments were also made in January 2022, and when Mr A raised this with HSBC 
it said it was too late to refund the additional payment at that stage given the time that had 
elapsed. So it said to Mr A not to make Februarys payment to compensate for the over 
payment. I think HSBC acted reasonably and fairly here too. 
As Im satisfied HSBC have done anything wrong, I dont think it needs to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman