DRN-4237590
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) is responsible for the 
loss of £100 in cash he says he deposited in branch.
What happened
Both sides are familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief. 
On 16 March 2023 Mr E says he attempted to deposit £1,000 in cash (48 £20 notes and four 
£10 notes) in an Immediate Deposit Machine (IDM) at a Halifax branch. Because the number 
of notes Mr E was depositing (52) exceeded the IDM limit (50) - the transaction was 
unsuccessful. 
Mr E says he spoke to a cashier who deposited the cash for him manually. But when the 
cash was counted, it totalled £900, not £1,000. The £900 was credited to Mr Es savings 
account. 
Presuming the missing £100 had become stuck in the IDM, the cashier checked, but no cash 
was found. The IDM was checked to see if any money was unaccounted for, but there were 
no discrepancies found. 
Mr E complained to Halifax. He didnt think it had properly investigated the matter and 
wanted the CCTV footage looked at. 
Halifax didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. It maintained no money was jammed in the IDM, and 
there were no discrepancies in the IDM cash balance from 16 March 2023. It also explained 
that the cash Mr E handed to the cashier hadnt been manually counted, rather it had been 
counted via the Teller Cash Recycler (TCR) system. Halifax offered Mr E the chance to view 
the CCTV footage.
Halifax accepted it hadnt contacted Mr E by telephone about its investigations, meaning he 
had to attend the branch for an update. It apologised and paid Mr E £40 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr E remained unhappy and referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He was 
adamant hed deposited £1,000 into the IDM and he didnt think Halifax had investigated the 
matter well enough. And hed been unable to view the CCTV footage, which he thought was 
significant to his complaint. 
Our Investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. He said it wasnt 
possible to ascertain how the £100 shortfall occurred  and he was satisfied Halifax had 
followed due process in checking for the funds. Our Investigator also thought the £40 paid by 
Halifax for not contacting Mr E as promised, was fair. 
Mr E didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. He said Halifax still 
hadnt provided him with a copy of the CCTV footage and he questioned if this had been 
checked by Halifax or even existed. Mr E also said the IDM machine returned his notes in an 
unusual manner and hadnt been properly checked to ensure no notes had become stuck 
inside. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator  and for largely the 
same reasons. I realise this will be very disappointing for Mr E and Id like to assure him I 
havent taken this decision lightly. 
In doing so, Ive very carefully considered all the evidence provided and if I dont mention a 
particular point, its not because I havent considered it, but Ive focussed instead on what I 
believe to be important to the outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr Es strength of feeling  and I dont underestimate the significance of the 
£100 to him. But I need to look at things objectively. Essentially, I can only tell Halifax to pay 
the disputed £100 if the evidence supports that it was deposited by Mr E.
I should also add that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I 
must make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more 
likely than not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Firstly, its unclear to me why Halifax didnt provide Mr E with a copy of the CCTV footage, 
which its confirmed to me is no longer available. I can see from the information provided that 
the CCTV footage wasnt looked at as part of Halifaxs investigation, given the weight of the 
other available evidence, and because it said it wouldve only shown what Mr E saw for 
himself whilst in the branch (the TCR counting the money and the IDM being checked). 
Halifaxs position here doesnt seem unreasonable to me. 
I appreciate the points Mr E has made about the significance of the CCTV footage and its 
unfortunate this wasnt provided to him. But as the footage is no longer available, Im unable 
to fully substantiate what that footage showed. Instead, Ive focused on the other available 
evidence in deciding what is most likely to have happened. 
Its not disputed the transaction Mr E attempted to make via the IDM failed because he was 
depositing two notes more than the IDM capacity (50). And Ive no reason to doubt Mr Es 
recollection about the way the notes were returned by the IDM and how thoroughly it was 
checked for stuck notes. 
Halifaxs position is that no notes were stuck in the IDM - which it says was checked whilst 
Mr E was present. And that there were no accounting discrepancies when the IDM was 
checked the following day. Halifax has also confirmed there were no reported issues with the 
IDM. Mr E has confirmed that the cashier he approached after the failed transaction counted 
52 notes, which if correct, suggests all the notes had been returned by the IDM. 
Taking all this information into account, I think its unlikely, on balance, that any notes were 
stuck in the IDM. 
Halifax has confirmed that the cashier who Mr E says counted the number of notes returned 
by the IDM used a TCR to count the total to be deposited into Mr Es account. And Ive seen 
evidence to show the TCR counted £900 which was deposited accordingly.I accept Mr E thought he was depositing £1,000 on 16 March 2023. But all the evidence Ive 
seen strongly suggests that Mr E deposited £900 and that there was no banking error. So, I 
dont have a fair basis on which to tell Halifax to pay the disputed £100. 
This is a difficult message for me to give as I know how strongly Mr E feels about this matter. 
But given the evidence I have, and on the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably 
reach any other conclusion. 
Halifax accepts it shouldve telephoned Mr E as promised. But it has paid him £40 to reflect 
that. I consider that to be a fair and reasonable level of compensation for the impact this had 
on Mr E, and in line with what Id have awarded had Halifax not made an offer.
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I dont think this is a case where it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to ask Halifax to pay £100 to Mr E. 
So, Im not going to tell Halifax to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman