DRN-4170342
The complaint
Mr M complains about the value U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill (UKI) gave him 
for his car following a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M had a motor insurance policy with UKI covering his car. 
His car was damaged in a collision which was the fault of a third party.
UKI assessed his car as being beyond economic repair. It said it would declare it a write-off 
and assessed its market value as £5,283.
Mr M didnt agree with this valuation, and he complained to UKI.
UKI said itd used trade guides to arrive at a value for the car and it said it wouldnt increase 
this amount.
Mr M remained unhappy with UKIs valuation and brought his complaint to this service. He 
asked for a value of £6,995 for his car which is the value he told UKI it was worth when he 
insured it.
Our investigator looked into his complaint and didnt think it would be upheld. He looked at 
the trade guides and said the amount offered by UKI was in line with the approach taken by 
this service.
Mr M didnt agree with the view and asks that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his approach to this service, Mr M makes some additional points of complaint about the 
way UKI handled his claim. I cant see that Mr M has raised these as complaint points with 
UKI, or that its issued him with its final response. So Im not able to consider them further 
here. If he wishes to make a further complaint about those points then he is free to do so 
with UKI, and bring his complaint to this service in due course if he remains unhappy.
Having read the file of evidence about the valuation of Mr Ms car, Im not going to uphold 
this complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to him and Ill explain why.
Ive said above about how UKI arrived at the valuation of Mr Ms car.
Its approach fits with this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations 
for vehicles, but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable.
Ive done research into Mr Ms car and Ive found these values, provided by different trade 
guides, for the month his car was damaged, which are based on a vehicle with the same 
specification and mileage:
Company A: £4,850
Company B: £5,681
Company C: £5,381
Company D: £6,069
Ive looked at UKIs valuation of his car and I can see it has offered him a value in the range 
of values listed above. Wed normally agree the insurers valuation is fair if it is in the range 
of the guides.
I can see Mr M has provided evidence that the value hes been offered doesnt represent the 
market value of his car, but what hes sent shows a different mileage and year. Both of these 
are factors in arriving at the market value of a particular car, and the final sold price is often 
different to the asking price.
Looking at the evidence Ive been provided, I think UKIs offer of £5,283 for his car value, 
and the approach it has taken, is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman