DRN-1901411
The complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan Mr and Mrs H took out with Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
They say the loan was mis-sold. Theyre also unhappy that Barclays has since passed the 
loan onto a new lender.
What happened
In 2007 Mr and Mrs H took out a secured loan with Barclays. They borrowed £26,000 (plus 
£6,367.40 for PPI) over a 20-year term. The APR was 8.9% variable. 
Mr and Mrs H signed the various forms to apply for the loan on 11 July, they signed the loan 
agreement on 23 August and the loan completed on 29 August 2007.
In 2010 Mr and Mrs H complained the PPI had been mis-sold. The complaint was upheld, 
with a refund of the PPI (plus interest) applied to the loan account, and a cheque sent to 
Mr and Mrs H in respect of the payments theyd made to the policy.
Mr and Mrs H complained about the loan in 2019. As they didnt receive a response from 
Barclays they referred the complaint to us. Barclays said the complaint hadnt been allocated 
to the correct team causing it to be overlooked. In recognition of this mistake Barclays 
offered to pay £150 compensation. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt recommend it should be upheld, and 
he put Barclays offer of £150 to Mr and Mrs H. Mr and Mrs H didnt agree and so its been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im conscious that Ive condensed the events of the complaint into much less detail than they 
were presented. No discourtesy is intended by this; its merely a reflection of the informal 
nature of our service. Whilst Ive concentrated on what I think is the crux of the complaint, 
I assure Mr and Mrs H Ive read everything they have sent and told us. 
I appreciate how frustrating this complaint is from Mr and Mrs Hs point of view. And I dont 
doubt that theyre certain of their facts. But I must look at all the evidence before I can decide 
whether theres enough information for me to be able to uphold this complaint. I cant uphold 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint just on the basis of what theyve told me when other information 
doesnt support this. Were impartial - I must give equal consideration to the information 
provided by Barclays. And where the facts arent agreed I consider whats most likely to 
have happened in the light of the evidence and wider circumstances.
The loan agreement that Mr and Mrs H signed showed they were borrowing £26,000 (plus 
£6,367.40 for PPI) at a rate of £227.15 a month (£282.78 including PPI) over 240 months. 
So a quick calculation shows theyd be repaying £54,516 without PPI, or £67,867.20 with 
PPI, if the variable interest rate remained unchanged for the full term.
The loan agreement set out the term of the loan and the variable interest rate. Barclays had 
no regulatory responsibility to show the total amount Mr and Mrs H would repay, nor the 
price for each £100 borrowed.
Whilst I have regard for what Mr and Mrs H have said I dont agree they werent aware of the 
details of this loan when they agreed to take it out.
Mr and Mrs H have said that theyve got statements that show they were only paying around 
£60 off their loan each month. This is a daily interest loan. This means the lender looks at 
the outstanding balance each day and works out what interest is due on the balance that 
day. So the moment the loan balance is reduced (such as when a monthly loan payment is 
made) then the lower balance immediately benefits from a lower interest charge. Its true that 
in the early days of a loan much more of the monthly payment goes towards paying interest 
rather than capital, but thats just because the balance is understandably significantly higher 
in year one than it is in year ten. If Mr and Mrs H look at the figures as they are in 2020 
theyll see over £120 is now coming off the loan each month.
Mr and Mrs H have said that Barclays didnt ask to see evidence of their income, and it didnt 
undertake a valuation of the property. Barclays did obtain proof of income as weve got on 
file a fax from Mr Hs accountant enclosing his annual accounts. Mr and Mrs H also banked 
with Barclays so it could see the money coming in and going out of their accounts, which 
could then be tied up with the credit commitments declared and those showing on their credit 
reference files.
Whilst its true Barclays didnt undertake a valuation of the property, thats because it didnt 
need to. A valuation had been carried out by an independent surveyor (that was a member 
of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors) the year before. As the housing market at 
the time was rising (or at worst staying the same, it certainly wasnt falling) there was no 
reason why Barclays shouldnt have relied on that valuation report, rather than charging 
Mr and Mrs H to have another one carried out.
Mr and Mrs H said the PPI has not been addressed, and the money wasnt given to them but 
was instead paid off the loan without their consent. Ive considered this point carefully, but I 
dont agree. Mr and Mrs H signed a declaration in January 2010 that said We would like to 
confirm our acceptance of your offer to cancel our payment protection insurance policy and 
for a full refund of the insurance premium (£6,367.40) plus any interest paid on it* to be 
applied to our loan account in full and final settlement of my complaint. So it seems from 
this Barclays told Mr and Mrs H that the PPI would be refunded back to the loan account, 
and they gave their express consent for that to take place.
Mr and Mrs H have said there has been no option to receive a better rate of interest or to 
see if any circumstances have changed in recent years as the APR is equivalent to a payday 
loan. The APR on this loan was 8.9%; thats nothing like equivalent to a payday loan which 
would commonly in the hundreds of percentage points (or even over 1000%) APR. 
Mr and Mrs H entered into a 20-year loan contract at a variable rate of interest. Barclays has 
no regulatory responsibility to review the rate in that contract period. If they feel they would 
be able to obtain a lower rate (either elsewhere or with Barclays) then Mr and Mrs H are free 
to look to do so and use the new loan to repay this Barclays loan.
The transfer of the loan to a new lender was a commercial decision by Barclays and 
something it was allowed to do under the terms and conditions of the account. Mr and Mrs H have said it was only done after theyd paid back more than theyd originally borrowed. Im 
not sure what relevance that has because this was an interest-bearing loan, so it was always 
the case that Mr and Mrs H would be paying back more than they originally borrowed. 
As far as I am aware, all Mr and Mrs H have done is make their normal monthly payments 
on time each month, which is fine as thats all theyre contracted to do. But unless they make 
any lump sum payments to pay off part of the debt then the loan will run until 2027 in line 
with the contract they entered into. And until that time the loan will still be outstanding, and 
interest will be charged. Barclays was allowed to transfer the loan and I dont think it did 
anything wrong in doing so.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Barclays has done nothing wrong here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr and Mrs H to decide if they want to contact 
Barclays directly to accept its offer of £150 for the delay in dealing with their complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman