DRN-2964282
The complaint
Mr K complains about how Soteria Insurance Limited (trading as Co-op Insurance) cancelled 
his motor insurance policy that he held with them. 
What happened
Co-op called Mr K in January 2021 to discuss a claim he had registered with them following 
a collision in his car. Co-op say that Mr K said during this call that he had been on his way to 
or from work. 
Co-op say they told Mr K that his policy didnt provide cover for commuting but couldnt 
establish if he needed to add that on to his policy. Mr K raised a complaint, unhappy with the 
service he was being provided. 
Co-op responded to say that he could add commuting to his policy if he needed to for no 
additional premium, but an administration fee. However, they say they were still unable to 
get clarification if this was needed going forward and if it was a single place of work or 
multiple. They also let Mr K know that his claim wouldnt be met as he wasnt insured to drive 
the vehicle to work. 
Co-op say they attempted again to establish what upgrades to the policy were needed but 
that Mr K declined. They issued a cancellation notice on 21 January 2021 and as the 
information was still not provided, the policy was cancelled at the end of that month. 
Mr K remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service for an independent 
assessment. He didnt think hed been given enough notice of cancellation and didnt think 
hed done anything wrong as the options when he took the policy out were social, domestic, 
pleasure (SDP) or business use. He didnt think driving to work came under business use so 
selected (SDP).   
The investigator who looked into it felt that Co-op had acted fairly. She said that they had 
acted in line with the policy terms and conditions when cancelling it. Whilst she recognised 
that it was unfortunate that you didnt receive the cancellation notice until a day before the 
deadline, she didnt find that this was the fault of Co-op. 
As Mr K remained unhappy, the case has been passed to me to decide on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Co-op didnt pay Mr Ks claim following an incident in his car. They have done this by stating 
that he wasnt covered as he was using his car to travel to or from work. I am satisfied that 
this is fair in the circumstances. 
Mr Ks policy states in section 6 of the certificate of insurance that there is an exclusion for 
use for commuting, any business purposes. Mr K has confirmed that this was the purpose 
of his journey at the time of the incident, and so I think Co-op are right not to pay the claim. 
Further to this information, Co-op have said they then tried to establish more about how 
often Mr K used his car for commuting but were unable to get a firm answer. I have seen and 
listened to evidence where this was attempted on several occasions. 
Mr Ks policy also states that Co-op may cancel a policy if there are serious grounds to do 
so such as.you have provided us with incorrect information and you have failed to provide 
a remedy when requested. Mr K appears to have said he used his car for SDP purposes 
despite giving information to the contrary. And as Co-op were unable to establish the true 
extent of this despite several requests, I think they acted fairly when cancelling the policy. 
Mr Ks policy also stated that when it is being cancelled for a reason such as above, seven 
days prior written notice will be given. Mr K is unhappy as he says that he only received the 
letter a day before the policy was to be cancelled. I can understand that this will have been 
very frustrating for Mr K. However, the cancellation notice was dated 21 January 2021 and 
the cancellation date was 30 January 2021. This is sufficient and fair notice and I cant fairly 
say that Co-op are at fault if he didnt receive it until 29 January 2021. 
Since raising the complaint, Mr K has also said that his only options when taking the policy 
out were SDP or business purposes. Our investigation has focused on whether the policy 
was cancelled fairly. However, we have been provided with evidence which states that 
SDPC (social, domestic, pleasure and commuting) was an option Mr K could have selected. 
It would appear from his initial claim, that this is the option that should have been selected. 
Mr K says that he had previously asked for all documents to be sent by email. Whilst I dont 
doubt this this was the case, Co-op were still required to send this in writing and Mr K has 
confirmed he received it in advance of the deadline, so action could have been taken. Even 
if it wasnt emailed, Im not satisfied that this has had any impact on the policy cancellation. 
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Mr K. But, for the reasons set out above, I dont 
require Co-op to do anything more to resolve this complaint. My decision ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve Mr Ks dispute with Co-op can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman