DRN-3109081
The complaint
Mr W says Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly. He says that when Morses continued 
to lend to him which caused him to go further into debt and suffer financial hardship.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics, and 
in smaller font, which forms part of this final decision. 
This complaint is about four home collected loans Morses provided to Mr W between October 
2018 and January 2020. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in 
the table below.
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 05/10/2018 £300 33 14/06/2019
2 14/06/2019 £500 33 08/01/2020
3 04/09/2019 £300 33 19/05/2020
4 08/01/2020 £700 53 08/01/2021
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
In particular he said that he was in a debt management plan when he took the loans from 
Morses, so it should have been clear that he would struggle to make the repayments.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
Loans 1 to 3
Ive seen a record of the information Mr W provided when he completed his loan applications for 
these loans. Mr W said he had a weekly income of between £570 and £650. And he had regular 
weekly outgoings of, on average, £465. So, it would have been reasonable for Morses to think 
that Mr W could afford the repayments to these loans.
I also havent seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr W was having at this stage. Or anything else that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate his circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Morses to rely on the 
information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Morses did for loans 1 to 3 were 
proportionate. And I think its decisions to approve these loans was reasonable. Im not intending 
to uphold Mr Ws complaint about them.
Loan 4
By loan 4, Mr W had been borrowing from Morses for over year. And the amount he borrowed 
for loan 4 was a significantly larger than his previous loans. He hadnt repaid loan 3 when he 
took this loan. Added to this, his income was recorded as being £650 per week but his 
expenditure had increased to around £595. So, there would be very little, if anything, left over 
when he had repaid the two outstanding loans.
So, I think Morses couldve realised at the time that Mr W may have had some longer-term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans to help with a temporary cash flow problem. 
Morses shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew enough about Mr Ws true 
financial situation.
I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review Mr Ws financial situation. And I think 
that Morses needed to verify the information it found out where possible.
If it had done this I think a proportionate check for loan 4 would most likely have shown that Mr 
W was having problems managing his money. Mr W has provided documents that show he 
was in a debt management plan at the time. The amounts that he owed other creditors involved 
were significant, given his circumstances, as was the monthly repayment towards this plan.
So, Mr W was struggling to repay the debts he already had. And it was likely he was 
borrowing further either to repay these debts or to make ends meet. So, I dont think this 
lending was sustainable.
I think that Morses wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate checks. 
And I think Morses wouldve seen Mr W wouldnt have been able repay this loan in a 
sustainable way. So, I think that Morses shouldnt have given loan to Mr W and I think hes lost 
out as a result of this. So, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint about loan 4.Morses, and Mr W, received my provisional decision. Morses didnt have any anything to 
add after it had seen it. Mr W agreed with what I said. He noted that his poor payment record 
with Morses should also have led to it realising that it shouldnt have lent to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr W has noted there were one or two instances of late payments to the loans at times. 
But I had already considered this in my earlier decision and they partly led me to reach the 
outcome I have. So, overall, Morses and Mr W didnt raise any new points after receiving my 
provisional decision. 
So, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons. I wont add 
anything to what I said earlier as no new issues have been raised. 
I still think Morses shouldnt have approved loan 4 and Im upholding Mr Ws complaint about 
this loan. 
 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not approved loan 4, as Im satisfied it shouldnt have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr W may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr W would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I currently think Morses shouldnt have given Mr W loan 4.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards 
interest, fees and charges on this loan, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr 
W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr W originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Mr W the total of A plus B.
D) Morses should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Ws credit file 
in relation to loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman