DRN-3716046
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt reimbursed him after he fell victim to a 
scam.
Background
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill summarise them only 
briefly. Mr A fell victim to an investment scam after he was contacted on social media. He 
used his Barclays account to make payments to an account with a cryptocurrency platform. 
He did this because hed been promised generous returns by the scammer. In total, he 
transferred a little under £9,000. He also received some credits back to his account from the 
cryptocurrency platform.
Once he realised hed fallen victim to a scam, he contacted Barclays. However, it said it 
wouldnt reimburse him. He wasnt happy with that response and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it in part.
She thought Barclays shouldve done more to protect him from fraud. However, she thought 
that Mr A should be considered partially responsible for his own losses. Mr A disagreed with 
the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me to consider and 
come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in law is that Mr A is liable for any transaction he authorises. However, 
Barclays was also expected to be on the lookout for account activity that was unusual or out 
of character and might have been an indication that Mr A was at risk of financial harm due to 
fraud.
I agree with the conclusions of the Investigator that the risk ought to have been clear from 
the second payment. Mr A had made two payments in quick succession, they were for 
higher values than typical payments from his account and they were to a cryptocurrency 
platform. I think Barclays shouldve recognised the strong possibility that Mr A was falling 
victim to an investment scam and contacted him before processing the second payment. If it 
had done so, I think its more likely than not that Mr A wouldve explained that he came 
across the investment opportunity on social media and Barclays couldve warned him that it 
was most likely a scam.
However, Ive also considered whether Mr A should be considered partially responsible for 
his own losses. In doing so, Ive taken into account what the law says about contributory 
negligence while also bearing in mind that I must decide this case based on what I consider 
to be fair and reasonable.
I do think its fair and reasonable for him to be considered partially responsible here. He 
ought to have been more sceptical of an investment opportunity that was presented to him 
on a social media platform. He was concerned that he couldnt find anything about them 
online. However, he took a not particularly persuasive explanation from the scammer at face 
value. He was also told that he could expect to earn over £1 million in a short space of time. 
The returns he was promised were outlandish and too good to be true and Mr A ought to 
have acted more cautiously than he did. For that reason, I think its fair for Barclays to 
deduct 50% from any compensation it pays him.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint. If Mr A accepts my decision, 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
- Refund him 50% of the money he lost to the scam from the second payment 
onwards, less the credits he received back from the scammer.
- Add 8% simple interest per annum to that sum calculated to run from the date the 
money left Mr As account until the date any settlement is paid to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman