DRN-3780310
The complaint
Ms L and Mr R complain about ongoing advice they received from St Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc (SJP).
What happened
The facts of this case are well known to all parties so I wont repeat them here. To 
summarise - Ms L and Mr R had an investment portfolio with SJP for which they received 
ongoing advice. They recently complained that specific investments had underperformed 
over the last five years and that their SJP adviser made unsuitable decisions which led to the 
underperformance.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that the advice SJP 
had provided Ms L and Mr R over those years wasnt unsuitable for their risk profile. Ms L 
and Mr R disagreed. They submitted detailed reasons as to why which Ill summarise as 
follows:
- The recommendations in 2016 to reduce the risk of their portfolios were unsuitable as 
they were several years from retirement. Once the recommendations were 
implemented they were managed poorly.
- The underperformance was consistent and inevitable given the unsuitable 
recommendations.
- SJPs recommendations in 2016 to move to more UK based funds increased the risk 
rather than reduced it and was entirely unsuitable.
- SJP didnt notify them of the opportunity to invest more into their pensions when an 
annual allowance changed in 2015.
As no agreement has been reached, its been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Whilst Ive considered all the detailed 
submissions made by both parties, this decision focuses on the crux of the issues which 
reflects the informal nature of this service. I consider these to be the suitability and 
underlying performance of Ms L and Mr Rs portfolio, and the lack of notification that they 
could increase their pension contributions. Ill address these below.
Suitability
Ms L and Mr Rs complaint is around the suitability of SJPs ongoing advice from 2016 
onwards  when SJP changed the funds in their portfolio. I think the complaint is focused 
around the fund switch that happened after the Brexit vote. It was at this point that SJP 
recommended they split their portfolio in equal parts into five funds  the majority of which 
were UK based and had similar assets. The suitability letter doesnt go into specifics for the 
fund switch but explained that it fit Ms Ls and Mr Rs balanced risk profile. There doesnt 
seem to be any dispute over their attitude to risk or that the funds matched their general risk 
profile.
Ms L and Mr R have said this fund switch was SJP re-risking their portfolio when they were 
years away from retirement. SJP has explained that the adviser didnt want to expose them 
to higher risk global funds. He explained that UK funds were expected to provide safer 
growth and he was concerned about currency risk post Brexit. Ms L and Mr Rs new adviser 
has commented to say that by moving their portfolio into more UK based funds, it was 
exposing them to higher risk due to the lack of diversification.
Ive thought very carefully about this. I do appreciate that suitable ongoing advice isnt as 
simple as ensuring the funds match a customers attitude to risk  in this case I have no 
concerns that it did. But rather, providing a portfolio management advisory service is a 
difficult balancing act. Fund managers, as well as advisers, dont have the benefit of 
hindsight that Ms L and Mr R now have. So, whilst I appreciate their portfolio couldve 
achieved more invested in other assets over a period of time, this isnt something that SJP 
wouldve known and we cannot use hindsight here. Ms L and Mr Rs SJP adviser had to 
make balanced decisions to fit in with their overall circumstances.
I note that Ms L and Mr R were in their 50s at the time of the fund switches, and I can see 
that the 15 year plus relationship with SJP has been geared towards providing for them in 
retirement. I can see SJP considered their ages when advising them to switch to more UK 
based assets. Ive thought carefully about SJPs reasoning here  that Ms L and Mr R had 
built up a retirement fund and that he wanted to concentrate their assets towards the UK due 
to potential currency risk after the EU referendum. Having done so, I dont think that SJPs 
logic was such that it made the advice inherently unsuitable. My role isnt to judge a strategy 
based on whats now happened  its fair to say that Ms L and Mr R couldve achieved better 
returns but this doesnt make the advice they received from SJP unsuitable.
Ive noted that Ms L and Mr R are unhappy with the performance of their portfolio over the 
last five years. SJP has provided evidence which suggests it performed broadly in line with 
the benchmark it uses. I acknowledge Ms L and Mr Rs new adviser feels it should be 
viewed in line with other benchmarks but Ive already concluded that the advice wasnt 
inherently unsuitable. And whilst it may have performed worse than other possible 
investments, we cant use the benefit of hindsight here. I do understand the argument that 
their portfolio wasnt diversified enough  but I think the rationale SJP has provided about 
weighting the assets towards the UK due to potential currency risk post Brexit was logical to 
the extent that it doesnt make the advice inherently suitable  particularly as the portfolio 
contained their retirement funds.
Additional pension contributions
Part of this complaint is around pension allowances changing, and Ms L and Mr R not being 
told to increase their contributions. SJP has made a number of points relating to Ms L and 
Mr Rs circumstances and unwillingness to commit money into their pensions. Ms L and Mr 
R have made the point that it should always have been their choice. I agree, however I do 
need to understand whether they have lost out as a result of this not being highlighted.
SJP has said its adviser couldve told Ms L and Mr R to contribute more to their pension but 
he managed their portfolio in line with their objectives, current attitude and end goals and he 
felt their available cash and general attitudes meant they wouldnt have invested more. I 
think this shows that it wasnt discussed with Ms L and Mr R. But this doesnt mean SJP 
wasnt aware of it, or that its omission meant the advice wasnt suitable. Ive seen no evidence that Ms L and Mr R asked their SJP adviser about it and were given incorrect 
information whilst the opportunity was still available.
Im mindful that the adviser from SJP advised in relation to the cash Ms L and Mr R had 
available to invest. He made use of their ISAs and has provided his reasoning that it wasnt 
likely theyd have invested more. The advice he gave relating to funding their retirement 
accounts took into consideration their individual position, allowance and general finances. I 
find this persuasive enough to conclude that, on balance, its unlikely Ms L and Mr R 
wouldve increased their contributions into their pensions even if SJP had alerted them to the 
changes in allowances as it appears their full circumstances were taken into account when 
discussing how much they could afford to invest into their retirement account. I also see they 
appeared happy with the strategy and advice  which I cant see was unsuitable in these 
circumstances. 
When using hindsight, its often the case that different courses of action would have turned 
out better or worse than anticipated. SJP needed to take account of Ms L and Mr Rs 
circumstances, attitude to risk and agreed strategy when advising them to ensure what they 
were recommended was suitable. Whether or not they were specifically told about the 
change to allowances, Im not persuaded SJPs advice was unsuitable or that theyd be in a 
different position. 
To conclude, whilst I understand Ms L and Mr Rs strength of feeling, I dont think SJP has 
given unsuitable advice. And I dont think, on balance, theyd be in any different position if 
SJP had notified them about the changes to pension contribution allowances in 2015.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman