DRN-3721780
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has handled a 
claim under their legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to IPA, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
In 2012, Mr and Mrs H made a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy to pursue 
action for professional negligence against a third-party regarding building works carried out 
at their property. The claim was declined as it was considered to be caught by two policy 
exclusions. In addition, it wasnt thought to enjoy reasonable prospects of being successful 
(a requirement for cover under the policy).
Mr and Mrs H pursued the matter privately and received a global offer from the third-party  
inclusive of damages, interest, and costs  to settle the dispute. Whilst the offer was lower 
than what they were seeking, without the benefit of funding under their insurance policy, they 
couldnt afford to take the claim any further. So they accepted the offer.
In 2016, Mr and Mrs H returned to their insurer and it was acknowledged that the two policy 
exclusions had been applied incorrectly. But the issue of whether there were reasonable 
prospects remained disputed.
In around 2017, Mr and Mrs H raised a complaint to our service. As a result of our 
intervention, a barrister provided an assessment as to the level of damages recoverable had 
the claim continued, as well as the prospects of success when the claim was first made in 
2013.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs H returned to our service. They said the barrister was of the opinion a 
higher settlement wouldnt have been achieved. But they had concerns that the incorrect 
policy document had been considered when coming to this opinion.
At this point, it was identified that the correct insurer of Mr and Mrs Hs policy was IPA, but 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. So the matter was passed to one of my ombudsman colleagues 
here, who concluded that IPA were the insurers of the policy and the correct respondent for 
this complaint.
As neither IPA or Mr and Mrs H rejected that decision, the case was passed back to our 
investigator to look into the outstanding complaint points. I understand the key issues are as 
follows:
The barrister has considered the case based on an incorrect policy document which 
Mr and Mrs H believe has impacted the outcome reached.
Mr and Mrs H raised a complaint about the barrister to the Legal Ombudsman as 
they believe he has made errors in his assessment. Because of this, they dont think 
IPA should rely on the advice.
Theyve asked that IPA reimburse the legal costs incurred in pursuing the claim, 
which would otherwise have been met by the policy had it not been incorrectly 
declined.
Theyve asked that IPA reimburse the legal costs incurred in providing instructions to 
the barrister and for bringing a complaint to our service.
They believe IPA should pay more than £500 compensation.
Our investigator upheld the complaint recommending that IPA should instruct a cost 
draftsman to calculate what legal costs were reasonable and necessary in pursuing the 
claim. IPA should pay 50% of this amount, plus 8% simple interest per annum. She didnt 
think IPAs liability should be limited to the policys indemnity of £50,000, as it lost the 
opportunity to apply the policy terms when the claim was declined in error.
Our investigator explained that 50% was to reflect the fact that Mr and Mrs Hs settlement 
was inclusive of legal costs. And whilst IPA couldve sought to recover all its costs from the 
award, it wouldnt have been fair to  rather, a 50% recovery wouldve been reasonable. The 
8% interest was in recognition that Mr and Mrs H had been without this money from the date 
they had to pay it.
Our investigator was satisfied that IPA were entitled to rely on the barristers assessment. 
She wasnt persuaded the policy documents had any impact on the outcome of the advice, 
given that the assessment was on the merits and potential outcome of the legal claim rather 
than the policy cover.
She also didnt think it was fair for IPA to meet the legal costs Mr and Mrs H had incurred in 
providing instructions to the barrister or raising their complaint. She thought both processes 
were straight forward enough for a layperson to do without legal representation. And whilst 
Mr and Mrs H were entitled to seek legal guidance, this didnt mean IPA were responsible for 
the cost of it.
And finally, our investigator was satisfied that Mr and Mrs H had already received £500 
compensation. Whilst IPA may not have been the one to pay it, she didnt think Mr and Mrs 
H should be compensated again for the same issues.
IPA didnt respond to our investigators view. It initially indicated that it would make an offer 
to settle Mr and Mrs Hs legal costs, rather than getting them assessed by a cost draftsman. 
But this offer hasnt been forthcoming.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept our investigators view of the complaint. I understand the key 
reasons to be:
Had the claim been accepted correctly, they wouldve used a panel solicitor whose 
costs wouldve been lower. As a result, they wouldve got more for the money spent. 
Because of this, they dont think the award made for their legal costs puts them back 
in the position they wouldve been in had the error not occurred.
IPA cant rely on the barristers advice because it was obtained for the insurer 
previously thought to be responsible for their policy.
The barrister has commented on the terms of the policy within the assessment and 
therefore the correct policy document will alter the advice.They remain of the opinion that £500 doesnt adequately compensate them for whats 
gone wrong.
They dont believe IPA is the correct insurer of their policy.
Our investigator considered the further points made, but it didnt alter her opinion of how the 
complaint should be resolved. As the parties arent in agreement, the complaint was passed 
to me to decide and in August 2022 I issued the following provisional decision. 
My provisional decision
Correct respondent
Another ombudsman at our service has decided that IPA are the correct respondent for this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr and Mrs H still have reservations about this, but I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that this issue needs to be revisited.
Claims decision
It isnt disputed that the policy exclusions were incorrectly applied to Mr and Mrs Hs claim 
initially. But from what Ive seen, reasonable prospects of success hadnt been established 
therefore no cover was available under the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs H subsequently obtained a further legal assessment which confirmed prospects 
of success existed. But by this point, the claim had been settled and the legal costs had 
been incurred.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H now want IPA to cover their legal costs. But I have to be satisfied 
that the claim was incorrectly declined on prospects in 2013, and I cant see that a 
persuasive and supportive prospects assessment had been provided on the claim at that 
time.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs H didnt dispute prospects initially  as they thought their 
claim was declined for multiple reasons, rather than just their chances of winning. I think had 
the claim only been declined on prospects initially, Mr and Mrs H may have done more to 
dispute the decision before going on to pursue it privately. And the recent barristers opinion 
confirms prospects did exist in 2013. So overall, I think its fair and reasonable to consider a 
contribution towards the legal costs incurred in pursuing the claim.
Legal costs
Where a business has done something wrong, wed expect them to put the customer back in 
the position they wouldve been in had everything been done correctly, as far as reasonably 
possible. But its not always clear what that position wouldve been. And in this case, its 
certainly not straight-forward.
Its clear that had Mr and Mrs Hs claim been accepted, they wouldve benefitted from having 
some legal costs covered by the policy. But what that cover looks like in hindsight is difficult 
to determine, as there are many different variables.
For example, I cant say with any certainty whether Mr and Mrs H wouldve used a panel firm 
or remained with their chosen solicitor. And regardless of their legal representation, I dont 
know how much of the policys indemnity limit wouldve been used by the time the offer was made. If it was exhausted before the offer was received, cover wouldve ceased under the 
policy before Mr and Mrs H were able to secure any settlement. And they would have had to 
find an alternative way to continue paying legal costs.
The barristers opinion is that the offer Mr and Mrs H received was a good one, and more 
than what they considered the claim to be worth. So its likely cover wouldve ceased under 
the policy once this offer had been received in any event, as the policy wouldnt continue to 
fund the claim to court if a reasonable offer was on the table.
What I can say for sure is that, had the claim been accepted, the maximum amount IPA 
wouldve paid for legal costs is £50,000  as this is the policys limit of indemnity. Given that 
prospects were reasonable, and it was proportionate to do so, Im persuaded IPA wouldve 
incurred costs up to the limit to pursue this matter. Its noteworthy that Mr and Mrs H incurred 
costs of almost £75,000 up to the point of the mediated settlement. Its for this reason that 
Im inclined to award legal costs of £50,000 plus 8% simple interest per annum.
Whilst I can understand the logic behind our investigators recommendations to get a cost 
draftsmans assessment, I think its in the best interests of all parties to bring this matter to a 
final conclusion given the amount of years this has been ongoing. In addition, IPA were 
looking to make an offer but havent corresponded with us since that point. It seems to me 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances is that finality is brought to the matter, 
which has been ongoing for more than nine years.
Im not inclined to award any legal costs towards the instructions to the barrister or the 
pursuit of this complaint. As our investigator has said, these processes are straight-forward 
and dont require legal representation. If Mr and Mrs H felt they needed this support, then its 
for them to meet the costs of it.
Barristers assessment
Whilst I appreciate the barrister has commented on the cover available under the legal 
expenses policy, Im not persuaded that this has any bearing over his findings on the merits 
and quantum of the legal claim.
Im also not persuaded that, because this assessment wasnt obtained for IPA specifically, it 
cant rely on it. The advice is provided on the facts and evidence of Mr and Mrs Hs legal 
claim for the benefit of them and their insurer.
And finally, I havent seen any report from the Legal Ombudsman which indicates that this 
advice was factually incorrect or obviously wrong. So Im satisfied that, based on what Ive 
seen, IPA can rely on this advice. And Im not recommending that a further assessment be 
obtained.
Compensation
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H have had a stressful time throughout the duration of this dispute. 
But Im mindful they previously received £500 compensation which they had accepted. And 
whilst Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy, I dont think there was anything more I couldve 
reasonably expected IPA to do. So Im not inclined to award any further compensation to 
that what has already been paid.
Responses to my provisional decisionMr and Mrs H raised a number of points in response to my provisional decision. I dont 
intend to list them all in as much detail thats been provided. But an overview of the key 
points are as follows:
Reasonable prospects against the architect was never stated as a reason for 
declining the claim, only against the contractor.
Prospects were clearly reasonable from the outset as the evidence was stark  as 
stated by the barrister in his recent opinion.
The policy only covers a panel solicitors legal costs prior to the issue of court 
proceedings, so Mr and Mrs H wouldve had to have used them. And this wouldve 
been under a fixed fee arrangement, so its unlikely the limit of indemnity wouldve 
been exhausted. 
The proposed award wont nearly put Mr and Mrs H back in the position they 
wouldve been in had the insurers error not occurred. 
The policy provides for comprehensive coverage and doesnt have a limit of 
indemnity because theres no risk transfer. 
Mr and Mrs H are awaiting the outcome of the Legal Ombudsmans investigation into 
the barristers assessment. If they conclude that the opinion is error strewn and 
factually wrong in regard to quantum and the reasonableness of the settlement offer, 
IPA would no longer be entitled to rely on it. In that case, Mr and Mrs H would like the 
opportunity to raise a new complaint.
Mr and Mrs H remain of the opinion that £500 compensation is inadequate. They 
accepted this amount for the original poor handling of their claim, but since that time 
IPA has prolonged the dispute unnecessarily and provided false information to our 
service, obstructing our investigation  which has caused them severe distress.
IPA acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but provided no further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Again, I would like to reassure Mr and Mrs H that whilst Im aware I may have condensed 
some of the complaint points in far less detail and in my own words, Ive read and 
considered everything theyve told us. 
Im satisfied Ive captured the essence of the complaint and I dont need to comment on 
every point individually, or possibly in the level of detail they would like, in order to reach 
what I think is a fair outcome. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but it simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service.
Legal costs
Having considered the further comments provided, I remain of the opinion that a fair 
outcome to this complaint which brings finality to both sides is for IPA to pay legal costs of 
£50,000 plus 8% simple interest per annum. Ill explain why. As Ive stated previously, I cant say with certainty how the claim wouldve 
progressed had it not been declined incorrectly as there are many different variables. 
Whilst I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Hs point that the policy only covers the costs of a 
panel firm prior to the issue of court proceedings, that by no means confirms that 
they wouldve used one. Many customers who have already engaged with their own 
solicitor choose to stay with them and pay costs privately up to the point of issuing 
court proceedings. And even if a panel solicitor was used, they may have considered 
the claim too complex to be dealt with under the usual panel firm pay structure. 
Mr and Mrs H accepted a settlement offer than was inclusive of legal fees, so they 
wouldve always had to have put some of this towards IPAs costs had the claim 
been funded by the policy. So whilst I am only awarding £50,000 against the £75,000 
they incurred, this takes into account that some of their settlement wouldve always 
have gone towards legal costs.
The award of interest is in recognition that Mr and Mrs H have been without this 
money from the date they had to pay it.
Its not clear what Mr and Mrs H mean when they say the policy has no limit of 
indemnity as theres no transfer of risk. The policy is clear that it will pay up to the 
limit of indemnity which is £50,000.
Barristers assessment
Im mindful that Mr and Mrs H wish to rely on the barristers assessment where he states that 
the claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success back in 2013. But they dispute his 
opinion in regard to quantum and the likely settlement of the claim, saying there are errors 
and factual inaccuracies. 
As it stands, we dont have the outcome of the Legal Ombudsmans investigations and I can 
only make my final decision based on the evidence available. I cant take into account what 
might happen or hypothetical situations. But Mr and Mrs H should be aware that if the Legal 
Ombudsman is of the opinion that the assessment is flawed for whatever reason and should 
not be relied upon, this is likely to relate to the assessment as a whole and not just the parts 
they object to. 
As with any complaint that comes to our service, if new material evidence comes to light that 
may alter my final decision, then the complaint may need to be revisited at that time.
Compensation 
Whilst I acknowledge that no amount of money can undo whats gone wrong here, I remain 
satisfied that £500 adequately compensates Mr and Mrs H for the distress and 
inconvenience theyve experienced as a result of their claim being incorrectly declined. 
Im aware that Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with IPAs conduct since then, and that they 
believe the matter has been unnecessarily prolonged. But Im satisfied this is addressed in 
my award of 8% simple interest per annum on their legal costs, which recognises the 
amount of time theyve been without this money. 
And finally, Ive seen no evidence of IPA trying to obstruct our investigation or knowingly 
providing us with false information.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint and directing 
Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay Mr and Mrs H the sum of £50,000 plus 8% simple interest 
per annum* from when Mr and Mrs H paid their legal fees (evidence of payment to be sent to 
IPA) to the date settlement is sent. 
*If IPA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs H a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman