DRN-3074146
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt pursue his chargeback claim and then told him 
he was out of time.
What happened
Mr M bought a cooker which was received on 10 August 2020. When the cooker arrived, it 
was damaged, and Mr M didnt want to keep it or have it repaired. He contacted the supplier 
and it said that it wouldnt accept a return.
Mr M had paid for the cooker using his Lloyds debit card and contacted Lloyds on 19 August 
2020 about the issues with the cooker. Lloyds says that Mr M had contacted the supplier on 
18 August to say he wished to return the cooker and was told someone would be sent to 
inspect it. However, Mr M said he wanted to return the cooker. Lloyds raised a chargeback 
for the payment and applied a temporary credit to Mr Ms account.
Lloyds contacted the supplier of the cooker and says the supplier said it was prepared to 
assist Mr M and so Lloyds didnt pursue the chargeback claim further. It contacted Mr M 
about this and re-debited the payment from Mr Ms account on 6 January 2021.
Mr M said he wasnt aware that the payment could be re-debited after four months, but 
Lloyds said it had previously informed Mr M that the amount would be re-debited if the 
chargeback was unsuccessful. Lloyds says that Mr M then informed it he had received a 
refund for the cooker, and it considered the matter closed. It says Mr M complained about 
the service he had received, and it paid him £50 on 7 January 2021 in response to this.
Mr M wasnt happy with Lloyds actions and so referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think that Lloyds had acted fairly. He said that as the damage hadnt 
been disputed he accepted that the cooker was faulty. He said that Mr M contacted the 
supplier within 14 days to explain the defects and said he wanted to return the cooker. He 
said when Mr M contacted the supplier to explain he wanted to return the cooker the supplier 
didnt engage which he thought showed Mr M had tried to work with the supplier to return the 
item.
Our investigator said that Mr M had said the supplier and manufacturer said they wouldnt 
accept a return of the cooker or provide a refund. He noted that under the Consumer Rights 
Act, Mr M had the right to reject the goods and request a refund. Based on this he didnt 
think Mr M had been treated fairly and recommended that Lloyds arrange collection of the 
cooker and provide Mr M with a refund of £1,725 plus 8% simple interest.
Lloyds didnt agree with our investigators view. It said it had done all it should through the 
chargeback process and that it wasnt fair that it should refund Mr M when it hadnt done 
anything wrong. It noted the reference to Mr Ms statutory rights but said that it was the 
scheme regulations the bank followed when looking at a chargeback. It noted that the goods 
provided to Mr M were faulty but that the supplier was still prepared to assist Mr M and so it 
said it couldnt do anything further. It said it believed the supplier had followed its terms and 
conditions and was still willing to assist Mr M.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Lloyds only involvement with this transaction was that Mr M made the payment using 
his debit card  and because of this, the relevant scheme for Mr M to make a claim 
for a refund against Lloyds was chargeback.
Chargeback is a process by which claims can be made and are decided based on 
the card scheme's rules. Therefore, my decision wasnt about the merits of Mr Ms 
complaint regarding whether the cooker was of satisfactory quality. Instead I 
considered whether Lloyds acted in the way we would expect in regard to the 
chargeback claim and whether its actions led to any loss or additional difficulty for 
Mr M.
Mr M had made contact with the supplier and wasnt making progress and so I 
thought it reasonable that Mr Ms chargeback request was raised. 
Lloyds provided a temporary refund for the cost of the cooker to Mr Ms account 
which was in line with what we would expect to happen. Mr M was told that the 
supplier would be contacted and if the transaction was defended then the money 
would be re-debited or if the supplier provided a refund then Lloyds would consider 
the issue resolved. Given this I found that Mr M was informed of the possibility of the 
chargeback not being successful and the temporary refund being reversed.
The chargeback was refused because the supplier was still willing to assist Mr M. 
The suppliers terms and conditions said that in regard to faulty items these shouldnt 
be installed as this will be seen as acceptance but if defects are later found then the 
item will be inspected. As Mr M had tried to install the item when the defects were 
discovered, the supplier was acting within its terms and conditions by offering an 
inspection. Based on this I thought that Lloyds had acted reasonably by saying 
assistance had been offered.
The chargeback was defended, and it appeared that the supplier was still offering to 
assist Mr M so I didnt find it unreasonable that the chargeback claim wasnt pursued 
any further at that stage.
Lloyds case notes said that the case couldnt be taken to arbitration under the card 
scheme rules because Mr M still had the cooker. I noted that Mr M was told when the 
chargeback was raised that he didnt need to do anything. Given this I didnt think 
Mr M had done anything wrong by not returning the cooker. I considered what might 
have happened had Mr M been told to return the cooker and thought it wasnt clear 
what action he would have taken given costs were involved. 
I didnt think I had enough to say that we would have expected Lloyds to go to 
arbitration and thought the offer of assistance would have been factored into any 
outcome if arbitration had happened and so I couldnt say whether the outcome 
would have been any different had this happened. I noted that Mr M tried to reopen 
the claim but too much time had passed. Again, I didnt think I had enough to say that 
this would have changed the outcome.Mr M still had the cooker at the time and so I noted he could discuss the inspection or 
possible return with the supplier and potentially mitigate any loss. 
I didnt think that Lloyds was required to refund Mr M the cost of the cooker as I 
thought it pursued his chargeback claim to a reasonable end.
I thought that Lloyds could have provided clearer information to Mr M regarding 
actions to take and the possible impact returning (or not returning) the cooker could 
have. Had it done this then Mr M may have had a different outcome, or at least could 
have received a partial refund much sooner. As it said he didnt need to do anything 
he took no further action which delayed any return of the item, causing Mr M 
inconvenience by having to store the cooker and further inconvenience in then 
having to deal with any return or remedial actions with the supplier many months 
after purchase. Because of this I thought Lloyds should pay Mr M £250 
compensation.
Lloyds agreed with my provisional decision and said it would pay Mr M a further £250 
compensation (additional to the £50 it had already paid). 
Mr M was upset by my provisional decision, but no new information was provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, my role is to consider whether Lloyds acted in the 
way we would expect in regard to the chargeback claim and whether its actions led to any 
loss or additional difficulty for Mr M. As no new information was provided in response to my 
provisional decision, my conclusions havent changed. 
As previously set out, I do not find that Lloyds is required to refund Mr M the cost of the 
cooker as I think it pursued the chargeback claim to a reasonable end. However, I do think it 
could have provided clearer information when the chargeback was raised about the return of 
the cooker. Because of this I think it should pay Mr M £250 compensation, as it has agreed, 
because of the upset and inconvenience he was caused.
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr M £250 compensation (additional to the £50 it had 
previously paid) for the upset caused through the chargeback process.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should take the 
action set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman