DRN-1676566
 
The complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
In 2000, Halifax sold Mr B a monthly premium PPI policy to help protect his mortgage 
repayments if he was unable to work because of disability. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr B disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr B says he was pressured into buying the PPI. He said he was very vulnerable at the time 
and that Halifax took advantage of him. I appreciate that Mr B was going through a difficult 
time. But I havent seen any evidence to suggest Halifax applied undue pressure. I say that 
because, for example, I gather Mr B wasnt sold unemployment cover in addition to disability 
cover. That meant the PPI wasnt as expensive as it could have been and indicates to me 
that there was a discussion about Mr Bs needs and that Halifax tailored his cover 
accordingly.
In addition, Mr Bs mortgage application form indicates he signed separately to take out PPI. 
And the separate PPI application form he signed set out the cover that was to be set up. 
Mr B says he was rushed by the adviser and wasnt necessarily aware of what he was 
signing for. But I think the paperwork made that clear enough.
Of course, I dont know for sure what was said during the sale, but I cant discount the 
possibility that Mr B simply doesnt recall wanting the PPI at the time. That would be 
understandable given the time thats passed. 
As such, I cant fairly say that Halifax added this cover without getting Mr Bs agreement to 
take it, and so I dont uphold the complaint on this basis.
I think Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr B. That meant Halifax, among other things, 
should have taken steps to ensure its advice was right for him. Regardless of what steps it 
took, I think the PPI it recommended was right for him. For example, Mr B was eligible for the cover and wasnt significantly affected by any of the 
main things the PPI excluded or limited cover for. I cant see that Mr B would have found the 
monthly premium unaffordable either.
Mr B says he was entitled to generous redundancy pay but the PPI only covered him for 
disability, so I dont think it was unsuitable on those grounds. The PPI benefits potentially 
paid out for up to 24 months for each successful claim, which is a considerable time. 
Ive thought about the critical illness cover Mr B says he had but that would have provided a 
lump sum if he was diagnosed with a specified illness. So, the policies would have operated 
in different ways. 
Considering Mr B was in a long-term financial commitment that was secured against his 
home, I think hed have found the protection the PPI provided useful.
Halifax also needed to give Mr B enough information about the PPI so he could make up his 
own mind if it was right for him. I think its possible that some of the information it gave him 
could have been better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont think the PPI was 
unsuitable for him, I dont think better information would have changed his decision to take it. 
I think hed still have thought it offered him useful benefits at an affordable cost.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But Halifax 
will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that offers fair 
in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Halifax should also pay back to Mr B 
any extra interest he paid because of that.
Halifax should pay back to Mr B the extra he paid each month because the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Halifax should also pay Mr B 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.Nimish Patel
Ombudsman