DRN-2050200
 
The complaint
Mr K complains about AXA Insurance UK Plc and how it handled a claim under a home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ks home suffered damage, apparently because of major building works by a third party 
nearby. While the third-party offered Mr K some compensation, Mr K felt it was too low and 
sought assistance from AXA under his policy. AXA accepted the claim as accidental damage 
and has offered £100 compensation for some delay in corresponding with him.
An agreement was finally reached on the amount AXA would pay Mr K in relation to the 
damage at his home, and its relevant to add that this was less than what Mr K initially 
thought he should get. AXA though pointed out that some damage was present before this 
claim and so deductions were made. The relevant part is that Mr K and AXA reached an 
agreement on the amount and Mr K was supported by a lawyer in accepting that agreement.
The outstanding issues Mr K is unhappy with relate to the amount of compensation, his 
additional heating costs during the claim and his lawyers costs.
One of our investigators considered the information provided and ultimately concluded that:
AXAs offer of £100 compensation was fair, 
AXA wasnt responsible for extra heating costs and 
the limited information about the lawyers involvement, other than facilitating Mr Ks 
agreement to the amount already arbitrated, didnt justify asking AXA to pay the legal 
fees
Mr K wants an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An agreement was reached between AXA and Mr K about the amount payable in respect of 
the damage, and thats not an issue I need to deal with. The outstanding points for me to 
determine in reaching an outcome that I consider is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances relates to three matters:
Mr Ks legal fees 
Fair compensation
Heating costs.
As the investigator explained, we dont usually make awards for legal costs and Im not 
satisfied theres a persuasive reason to do so here. From the information provided, it 
appears that the impact of the lawyer was limited to getting Mr K to agree to the amount AXA 
offered. I bear in mind that we are a free to use service, and so we dont usually consider it 
necessary to engage lawyers in bringing a complaint. In this complaint there were 
challenges in agreeing scope of works and reaching a settlement. For example, the initial 
scope of work required included damage that AXA had previously made cash settlements for 
and which had remained largely unrepaired. While the claim didnt quite go as Mr K wanted 
that doesnt mean AXA put him in such a position that his only way forward was to engage 
the services of a lawyer. The apparent lack of necessity for Mr K instructing a lawyer leads 
me to conclude that it would be unfair to require AXA to pay his legal costs.
AXA offered £100 compensation for a delay in responding at times and Im satisfied thats 
fair in the circumstances. Mr K has said he would like in the region of £750 - £1,500 for the 
time the matter has taken and for living in a cold house. Im not satisfied that AXA is wholly 
at fault for the length of time involved  several other parties have been engaged in scoping 
works, assessing the impact of previous claims and unrepaired damage and arranging 
inspections and arbitration. Overall, Im satisfied £100 is fair.
Finally, is the issue of heating. Mr K says hes paid around £1,000 more in heating than he 
needed to, and this was a result of damage to the windows. Its apparent that the third-party 
building works were completed in October 2017. Mr K attempted to resolve the matter 
directly with the third-party and it wasnt until early 2019 that Mr K contacted his own insurer 
 AXA. The information shows AXA corresponded with Mr K about drafts through windows, 
suggesting he carries out a temporary repair which it would cover the cost of. And indeed, it 
must be highlighted that the damage was not caused by AXA. Im not satisfied it would be 
fair to require AXA to make any contribution towards Mr Ks claim that hes paid additional 
amounts to heat his home.
Having considered everything carefully, and while acknowledging that things didnt go in the 
way Mr K would have liked, Im satisfied AXA s offer of £100 fairly reflects the 
inconvenience it caused with some minor delays in corresponding with Mr K.
My final decision
I'm aware of AXA Insurance UK Plc's offer of £100 compensation and that's what it must 
pay, if it hasn't already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman