DRN-4244828
The complaint
Mr K complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) have failed to refund money that Mr K lost as 
part of a scam. 
What happened
Mr K became involved with a scam that related to receiving commission for boosting 
merchant sales on a third party shopping platform. He made a number of card payments and 
a transfer to an account with a different provider which was held in his own name. My 
understanding is that the funds were then sent on to the scammer.
Mr K raised a complaint with Metro as he believed that Metro should have stopped him from 
making the payments in question.
One of our investigators looked into this matter they decided that the transactions were not 
sufficiently out of character to warrant an intervention by Metro and that even if an 
intervention had happened the scam would not have been uncovered. He also concluded 
that there was no other means of Metro recovering the funds.
Mr K did not agree with this and therefore his complaint was passed to me to issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr K authorised the disputed payments he made to the account held in 
his own name with a different provider. The payments were requested by him using his 
legitimate security credentials provided by Metro, and the starting position is that banks 
ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to 
be made as instructed.
However, Ive also considered whether Metro should have done more to prevent Mr K from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transaction. For 
example, if it was particularly out of character. However, having thought about Mr Ks 
account activity, I do not think the payments he is disputing should have been regarded as 
particularly unusual as there were payments in the past that were of a similar size.
I note that there was an intervention from Metro during the transactions in question but that 
was limited to Metro making sure the payments were authorised. I dont think that Metro 
needed to do more.
The payments were not of such a large amount that they would represent a significant 
deviation from what would be considered as usual activity. I accept that the last payment 
does represent a larger payment than Mr K usually made but not sufficiently so, in my 
opinion, to have necessitated an intervention from Metro. Especially as the payment was 
going to a legitimate financial firm to an account in Mr Ks own name and that he had 
previously confirmed that he had authorised payments made to that account. 
I note that there were a number of transactions made on the same day in quick succession 
but given the size of the transactions and again they were confirmed to be authorised at the 
time, I dont think that this in itself should have prompted an intervention from Metro.
So, having considered the payments Mr K made, Im not persuaded there was anything that 
ought reasonably to have triggered Metros fraud monitoring systems (apart from the 
payments being checked that they were genuine), or that would have indicated he was in the 
process of being scammed. I therefore do not consider there to have been any obligation on 
Metro to have intervened any further.
I note that the investigator commented on whether an intervention would have led to the 
scam being uncovered or stopped. Based on the information that I have been provided with 
about the scam it is difficult to say because there is limited information about what actually 
happened. But given that I dont think that Metro needed to intervene, I dont think that 
speculating on whether an intervention would have changed matters affects the outcome of 
this complaint.
Ive also thought about whether Metro did enough to attempt to recover the money Mr K lost, 
as there are some instances where debit card transactions can be refunded through making 
a chargeback claim. 
In this case, a chargeback would not have been successful, as the transactions Mr K used 
his debit card for was to essentially transfer money from one account held by Mr K to 
another. So, he could not claim that he did not receive the goods or services paid for from 
his Metro account. As a result, I dont think Metro have acted unreasonably by failing to 
pursue a chargeback claim here.
In relation to the transfer, the payment again was between two accounts held in Mr Ks own 
name so the Contingent Reimbursement Model does not apply. I note that Metro was able to 
recover a small amount of funds from the account with the other provider but given that the 
account was in Mr Ks own name those funds were returned. Mr K should contact that other 
provider if he is unable to access these funds.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr K, and Im sorry to hear he has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Metro can fairly or reasonably 
be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman