DRN-3497096
The complaint
Mr D complains about Watford Insurance Company Europe Limiteds (Watford) handling of a 
claim made under his commercial insurance policy.
Any references to Watford include its agents. 
What happened
In March 2021, Mr D found damage to his boundary wall. He didnt know how the damage 
was caused and made a claim to Watford. 
Watford instructed a loss adjuster. Mr D says the loss adjuster considered the estimate he 
sent but declined the claim, saying they considered the damage to the wall indicated it had 
been impacted multiple times. Mr D believed the damage hed claimed for was caused by 
one incident. He acknowledged in May 2019 a lorry hit the boundary wall. He says repairs 
were carried out by the person who caused the damage. 
Watford subsequently declined the claim, saying Mr D hadnt declared earlier damage to the 
wall and, had he done so, it wouldnt have offered cover for the wall.
 
Mr D made a complaint to Watford, but it didnt change its mind about the claim. He referred 
his concerns to us and one of our investigators reviewed his complaint. She considered 
Watford had acted fairly in declining the claim, because it if had known about the earlier 
damage to the wall, it wouldnt have provided cover. As Mr D didnt agree, this matter has 
been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the heart of the issue here is whether Watford acted fairly in declining Mr Ds claim. Im 
sorry to disappoint him but when reflecting on the policy terms, I think it did.
Theres no dispute that the wall sustained damage on at least one occasion before Mr D 
made his claim. Im referring here to the damage Mr D said occurred in 2019.
Watford relied on the below policy term when taking the decision to decline Mr Ds claim:
INFORMATION YOU HAVE GIVEN US 
2. In deciding to accept this policy and in setting the terms including premium We 
have relied on the information which You have provided to Us. You must take care 
when answering any questions We ask by ensuring that any information provided is 
accurate and complete. 
If we establish that youprovided Us with untrue or misleading information We will 
have the right to decline all claims.
Watford says Mr D didnt answer the question about the buildings being in a good state of 
repair accurately. It says it based this conclusion considering the loss adjusters finding in 
their report the wall had been impacted on several separate occasions. And in their report, 
the loss adjuster implied that in there likely being more than one occasion of damage, Mr D 
may not have complied with the below policy term:
CLAIMS CONDITIONS
6. (a) It is a condition under this policy that You shall:
(i) advise Us within fourteen (14) days of any Damage, accident or injury 
which may give rise to a claim
Mr D says he told his broker about the earlier damage to the wall. I havent seen any 
evidence of this, or the information being passed on to Watford. That being said, the above 
policy term isnt the primary reason Watford declined Mr Ds claim. It primarily declined the 
claim on the basis it says Mr D declared the buildings, including the walls, as being in a good 
state of repair when they werent. And had it known about the earlier damage, it said it 
wouldnt have offered cover for the wall.
In relying on the information in the loss adjusters report to decline the claim, Watford also 
relied on a Google maps image from May 2021. This shows significant damage to the wall. 
This damage is also shown (albeit partly obscured by some plant growth) in the images from 
the loss adjusters report dated September 2021. This would again support Watfords general 
position Mr D didnt answer the question about them being in a good state of repair 
accurately. 
In summary, when considering the policy terms and the information Mr D provided, I think 
Watford was entitled to decline his claim. I appreciate Mr D has held the policy for a number 
of years without making a claim but this, in itself, isnt ground for a claim to be successful. I 
dont find Watford acted unfairly in declining the claim, and Im not going to require it to take 
any further steps to repair the wall as Mr D asked.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman