DRN-2889465
Complaint
Ms T has complained that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus) 
irresponsibly provided unaffordable credit to her.
  
Background and my provisional decision of 14 June 2021
Ms T was provided with a Creditbuilder account in January 2013, a Cashplus credit card in 
February 2013 and three iAdvance loans of £50 between October and December 2013. As 
Ms T has complained about the lending she was provided with and the Creditbuilder account 
involved a pre-paid account which didnt include credit, the Creditbuilder account hasnt 
formed part of this complaint.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Ms T and Cashplus had told us. And he thought that 
Cashplus hadnt done anything wrong when providing the credit card in February 2013 but it 
shouldnt have provided the three iAdvance loans as it ought to have realised they were 
unaffordable. So he partially upheld Ms Ts complaint. Both Ms T and Cashplus disagreed 
with our adjudicator. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for review.
On 14 June 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Ms Ts 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by explaining that weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website. And that I referred to this when deciding Ms Ts complaint. 
I then went on to set out that Cashplus needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice, what this meant was that Cashplus needed to carry out proportionate checks to 
be able to understand whether Ms T could afford to repay before providing her with any 
credit. Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders 
checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be 
less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in 
the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Cashplus had little information remaining from the time that it agreed to Ms Ts credit card or 
her iAdvance loans. But given how long it had been since the credit applications took place, I 
didnt think that was surprising and I didnt draw any adverse inferences as a result. The 
credit card Ms T was initially provided with had a maximum credit limit of around £300 in 
February 2013. And as this was a credit card Cashplus was required to understand whether 
Ms T could repay around £300 within a reasonable period of time. 
I understood that Ms T was asked to provide a declaration of her income. I didnt know what 
Ms T declared, but given what her statements showed as her income, I was reasonably 
satisfied that any declaration she made would have led Cashplus to reasonably conclude 
that Ms T would be able to repay £300 within a reasonable period of time. As this was the 
case, while I didnt know precisely what checks Cashplus carried out before providing Ms T 
with a credit card, I was reasonably satisfied that, in any event, reasonable and 
proportionate checks wouldnt have prevented Cashplus from lending. So this left me 
intending to find that Cashplus didnt treat Ms T unfairly when it provided her with a credit 
card.
I then considered Ms Ts iAdvance loans. Ms Ts iAdvance loans were all for £50. And as the 
amounts being lent were relatively low, I accepted that it could be argued a relatively light 
touch assessment of Ms Ts circumstances would have been proportionate in the 
circumstances. However, Ms T still had an outstanding balance on her credit card at this 
stage. And I was also mindful that Cashplus own notes in the lead up to the application for 
the iAdvance loans, recorded that Ms T was having trouble with her wages. 
So Ms Ts existing credit card balance coupled with what Cashplus notes recorded, led me 
to think that Cashplus needed to find out more about Ms Ts expenditure before providing 
her with the iAdvance loans. Having looked at the information Ms T provided about her 
circumstances at the time, I was satisfied that once her regular expenditure was deducted 
from her income, she didnt have enough to sustainably repay the iAdvance loans. In these 
circumstances, I intended to find that reasonable and proportionate checks would have 
shown Cashplus that it shouldnt have provided the iAdvance loans to Ms T. 
I finally went on to consider whether Ms T lost out as a result of having been provided with 
the iAdvance loans. I did consider that Cashplus said Ms T still hadnt suffered any loss, 
despite any interest and charges she paid on loans she shouldnt have been provided with, 
because an amount greater than the interest she paid on the iAdvance loans, was written-off 
on her credit card. 
However, having looked at the information provided I was satisfied that Cashplus sold the 
outstanding balance on the credit card to a third-party debt purchaser, rather than wrote it 
off. And as Ms T in any event had to pay the amount on the credit card to the third-party the 
debt was sold to, I was satisfied that she had lost out as a result of having to pay the interest 
and charges on her iAdvance loans. And I was satisfied that this meant Cashplus needed to 
put things right.   
Ms Ts response to my provisional decision
Ms T confirmed that she accepted my provisional decision and she provided nothing further 
for me to think about.
Cashplus response to my provisional decision   
Cashplus also responded to my provisional decision. It said its notes referred to a temporary 
issue with Ms Ts wages some 3-4 months prior to the iAdvance loans being provided and 
this doesnt mean a lighter touch affordability assessment wasnt proportionate. It also 
wanted me to note that the history of Ms Ts transactions included takeaways and 
entertainment and wasnt indicative of someone unable to repay the low value loans it 
provided.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Cashplus has said. But it wasnt Ms Ts previous difficulty with her 
wages, on its own or in isolation, which led to me reaching the conclusion the iAdvance 
loans shouldnt have been provided. It was this in combination with Ms T still having an 
outstanding balance on her credit card which led me to find that a lighter touch affordability 
assessment wasnt proportionate in Ms Ts circumstances. I thought and still think that given 
what Cashplus knew, it would have been proportionate to check there werent still any 
ongoing issues with Ms Ts wages before advancing further credit to her  especially as not 
too long had passed between Cashplus notes and the application for the first iAdvance loan.
Ive also thought about what Cashplus has said about Ms Ts takeaway and entertainment 
transactions. Im not sure which account it is referring to but what Ive seen of Ms Ts 
finances persuades me she simply couldnt afford to sustainably repay her iAdvance loans. 
And as this is the case, I remain satisfied that its fair and reasonable for me to partially 
uphold Ms Ts complaint.   
  
Fair compensation - what Cashplus needs to do to put things right for Ms T
Having carefully considered everything, I think its fair and reasonable for Cashplus to put 
things right for Ms T in the following way:
refund all the interest, fees and charges Ms T paid on her iAdvance loans;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest, fees and charges paid from the 
date they were paid by Ms T to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ts credit file as a result of the 
iAdvance loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashplus to take off tax from this interest. Cashplus 
must give Ms T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 14 June 2021, Im 
partially upholding Ms Ts complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman