DRN-4141055
The complaint
Mr G complained about the poor level of service he received from British Gas Insurance 
Limited (British Gas) under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr G raised a complaint to British Gas for numerous failed appointments from British Gas 
engineers in 2019/20 and 2020/21. He said British Gas often changed appointments from 
the morning to the afternoon or even to a different day, often with little notice provided. This 
meant Mr G and his wife were constrained to staying in their home at times when they didnt 
need to. It also meant they had to change planned arrangements.
On one occasion, an engineer attended an appointment to service the boiler, but he wasnt 
qualified to carry out the work. Mr G said he received letters to arrange his boiler service, but 
due to missed appointments he didnt have his boiler serviced for two years. Call backs 
werent made to Mr G that were promised.
After a review of the complaint, British Gas offered £210 in compensation, which included 
£130 for the two boiler services that didnt happen.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He didnt think the compensation was 
reasonable for the delays British Gas had caused Mr G. He increased the compensation by 
£70 (to £280 in total). British Gas disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I made a provisional decision on this on 25 April 2023. I said:
I think the circumstances of the complaint are clear  British Gas has acknowledged the 
boiler wasnt serviced in two years. There was failed and moved appointments and failure to 
call back Mr G when promised. So, I dont think there is a need to repeat the timeline of 
whats happened, its well known. So, I have focused on deciding whether I think the 
compensation British Gas has offered is fair. I dont think it is, so I intend to uphold this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
I appreciate British Gas has explained to our service some of its issues during this period 
were caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, but I havent seen any evidence during the claims / 
complaint that indicates British Gas ever raised this as an issue. So, I dont think its 
reasonable to identify this as a reason for British Gas failings at this late stage. British Gas 
did send a generic letter to Mr G about Covid-19 and the impact this may have. However, I 
dont think it adequately explained the impact of any of this to Mr G during the complaint or 
used this to explain the reduced service.
The boiler service was a contracted service that shouldve happened every year. British Gas 
has refunded £130 for this not happening. But Mr G went in total three and half years 
(August 2018 to April 2022) without a service. Within his correspondence, he raised 
concerns with British Gas about his wifes condition and the possible impact the boiler not 
being serviced may have had on her. Its clear that Mr G was concerned about the safety of 
his home. Given British Gas didnt provide the service it has contracted, I think it shouldve 
pro-actively refunded Mr G  not waited for the complaint to do this.
I can see British Gas has shared records of some of the reasons appointments were missed 
or moved. I dont think this would be unreasonable if it was the odd appointment, but in Mr 
Gs case, I think he has been let down an unreasonable number of times  even if his 
contract did allow for British Gas to act in reasonable timescales. I dont think its fair to 
contact Mr G and his wife at short notice to change appointments, or to miss appointments 
without notice. This wouldve caused them a considerable amount of inconvenience. This 
seemed more of a trend than one-off re-scheduling, I dont think this is the service Mr G 
signed up for.
I intend to uphold this complaint as I dont think the compensation offered is fair in the 
circumstances and reflects concerns Mr G raised. The length of time the servicing didnt 
happen was unreasonable given this concern. I think the situation wouldve caused distress 
and there was considerable inconvenience with the missed appointments and failed call 
backs. I dont think British Gas was pro-active in making the refund. Therefore, I intend to 
award additional compensation of £190 (thats £400 in total). I think thats fair and provides a 
proportionate award of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused when 
considering the cost of the service Mr G was paying during that time and the level of service 
he received.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr G accepted my provisional decision, and he didnt have anything further to add.
British Gas didnt agree with my provisional decision. British Gas explained further its view 
that the pandemic was the cause of the failed appointments and shared some of the generic 
communications it had on its website to explain this. It also sent Mr G a generic letter 
explaining the difficulties it was experiencing. However, British Gas offered a further £65 
compensation to its original offer as it recognised it had missed Mr Gs third annual boiler 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The information British Gas has provided is no different to what was considered when I 
made my provisional decision. Given neither party has provided any new information, I see 
no reason to change my provisional decision. My decision sets out why I think British Gas 
hasnt provided a reasonable level of service. I appreciate the pandemic brought about 
issues, but I dont think British Gas has explained this to Mr G appropriately in its final 
response or during his interactions with it.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr 
G:
£190* compensation  for distress and inconvenience (including the missed boiler 
servicing). British Gas also need to pay the £210 offered if it hasnt already been 
paid.British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it that Mr G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman