DRN-3589374
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr B under a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial 
Services that he electronically signed in March 2021. He complained to the dealer about 
noise from the cars brakes and it chamfered the brake discs but the brakes were still noisy. 
Mr B complained to BMW Financial Services but it said that it was a high performance car so 
the brakes are meant to be used under high pressure and that noises can be heard when 
theyre not being used to that affect. It said that the noise that the brakes were making is 
considered to be a characteristic of the car and, as there was no fault with it, Mr B was 
unable to reject the car. Mr B wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She said that the noise 
was excessive and falls outside of what would reasonably be expected as a characteristic so 
she didnt think that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B. She 
recommended that BMW Financial Services should: end the agreement and collect the car; 
refund Mr Bs part-exchange contribution of £4,000 and 10% of his monthly payments to 
cover the impaired use of the car (all with interest); pay him £150 for any trouble and upset 
caused; and remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file.
Mr B has accepted those recommendations but BMW Financial Services has asked for this 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in summary, that:
theres no confirmed fault with the car;
the manufacturers website and manuals state that the brake systems are recognized 
as being among the best in the world and are designed with a bias to providing 
superior stopping power over consideration for comfort related aspects and that 
brake noises are inherent to, and a characteristic of, high performance braking 
systems;
the owners handbook says; "The vehicle has a high performance brake system with 
ventilated compound brake discs. Depending on design requirements, function 
noises may occur when braking. However, this has no effect on the performance, 
operational safety and stability of the brakes";
the car was of satisfactory quality and the manufacturer has advised all of its 
customers that the brake noise is a characteristic;
the manufacturer agrees that the noise from Mr Bs car is a characteristic of it and all 
like for like cars do the same; and 
the dealer offered to chamfer the brakes as a gesture of goodwill to appease Mr B 
and would have informed him that it might not change things. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
BMW Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that 
it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr B was about three years old, had been driven for 
18,016 miles and had a price of £44,175;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
Mr B complained to the dealer about the noise from the cars brakes within a month 
of the car being supplied to him and the car was inspected but the brake pads and 
discs were all above specification and no fault was found  the dealer says that Mr B 
was told that brake noises on the performance braking system fitted to the car were 
normal and not considered a fault;
the dealer did chamfer the brakes to try to make the noise slightly better, but it says 
that it told Mr B that it couldnt guarantee that it would eliminate the noise  which 
isnt a fault with the car;
Mr B has provided a video of him driving the car in a residential area at relatively low 
speeds and the brakes make, what I consider to be, an unacceptable noise;
some occasional brake noise under special conditions may be acceptable but I dont 
consider it to be acceptable for the brakes to regularly make a loud and unpleasant 
noise during normal use as Mr B is experiencing;
BMW Financial Services says that the brake noises are inherent to, and a 
characteristic of, the cars high performance braking systems, and that the 
manufacturers website and manuals make customers aware of that;
but Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr B was made aware before he entered into 
the hire purchase agreement that he should expect that level of noise from the cars 
brakes and Ive seen no evidence to show that the dealer, which was a 
manufacturers specialist dealer, or BMW Financial Services told Mr B about the 
brake noise before the car was supplied to him;
BMW Financial Services also says that the owners handbook says that noises may 
occur when braking but I consider it to be more likely than not that Mr B wouldnt 
have seen the owners handbook until after the car had been supplied to him;
Im not persuaded that the brake noise from the car would reasonably be considered 
to be a characteristic of the car and I consider that the brake noise that Mr B is 
experiencing is enough to constitute a fault with the car which causes it not to have 
been of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for BMW Financial 
Services to allow Mr B to reject the car and to take the actions described below.Putting things right
I find that BMW Financial Services should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for 
the car to be collected from Mr B  both at no cost to him. I find that it should also remove 
any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on his credit file.
The hire purchase agreement shows that Mr B made an advance payment of £4,000 for the 
car and the dealers invoice shows that he made a part payment of £99 and that £3,901 was 
due from him. I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for BMW Financial Services to 
refund to Mr B the advance payment that he made for the car, with interest.
Mr B has described the impact on his use of the car that these issues have caused and our 
investigator recommended that BMW Financial Services should refund 10% of the monthly 
payments that hes made under the agreement as compensation for his impaired use of the 
car and that it should pay interest of those amounts. I consider that to be fair and reasonable 
in these circumstances.
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mr B. I find that it would 
also be fair and reasonable for BMW Financial Services to pay him £150 to compensate him 
for that distress and inconvenience.
Mr B says that he would like this service to require BMW Financial Services to make 
customers aware of the noise issue in its advertising of cars  but our investigator has 
explained why we cant do that and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for 
me to require it to take any other action in response to Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and I order BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr B  both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr B the advance payment that he made for the car.
3. Refund to Mr B 10% of the monthly payments that hes made under the 
agreement as compensation for his impaired use of the car.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Remove any adverse information about the hire purchase agreement that its 
recorded on Mr Bs credit file.
6. Pay £150 to Mr B to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires BMW Financial Services to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 4 above. BMW Financial Services must give Mr B a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman