DRN-2935036
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Specialist Motor 
Finance Limited (SMF) has not been of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then SMF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr C. The car here was about 
five years old and had already completed about 73,440 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear.
The relevant legislation says that if theres a fault with the car when it is supplied, that 
becomes apparent after the first 30 days, the business has a right to repair it. I think that was 
the case with the clutch cable on this car. That failed within the first six months of driving and 
SMF have explained that the cost of the repair was refunded to Mr C.
SMF arent responsible for everything that goes wrong with the car. Theyre not responsible 
for normal wear and tear. As the timing chain failed after Mr C had the car for close to a year 
I think the onus was on him to demonstrate that the failure was unrelated to fair wear and 
tear. I dont think hes provided sufficient evidence that was the case. The repairing garage 
havent suggested the fault had been present from the beginning and I dont think its 
unusual for a timing chain to fail at 80,000 miles.
So, I dont think it would be fair to tell SMF to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman