DRN-4193223
The complaint
Mr M and Mr Ws complaint is about a joint buy-to-let mortgage they have with Topaz 
Finance Limited trading as Rosinca Mortgages. They believe the property subject to the 
mortgage was overvalued when the mortgage was agreed, and they hold Topaz responsible 
for that error.
What happened
Mr M and Mr W took out the buy-to-let mortgage subject to this complaint in 2006 over a 
term of 15 years. The mortgage was arranged with Lender M and subsequently transferred 
to Topaz in 2018. I will refer to Topaz throughout. This was one of four properties Mr M and 
Mr W were parties to purchasing in 2006, all of which were mortgaged with Lender M. The 
other properties were bought with additional parties involved and so are subject to a 
separate complaint.
In 2021 Mr M and Mr W looked into the options for what to do with their properties. At this 
point they had one of the other properties valued, which came back with a value significantly 
below that established for it in 2006. They took this to mean all of their properties were worth 
less than the amount of borrowing on each one. They complained to Topaz toward the end 
of 2021 about all four mortgages. 
Topaz responded to the complaint in its letter of 13 January 2022. It confirmed the valuations 
had been carried out by a Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) accredited 
surveyor. In addition, it explained the surveys were solely for its use when determining 
whether to lend, and it was explained to Mr M and Mr W that they should have their own 
assessment completed. Topaz also highlighted comments of the surveyor who had recently 
valued one of the properties  that while the majority of the housing market had recovered 
after the property price crash in 2008, some sectors of the market had not, which included 
the property type Mr M and Mr W had bought in 2006. The complaint was not upheld.
Subsequently Mr M and Mr W had the other properties valued and the valuations confirmed 
they were worth less than the amounts established in 2006, supporting their belief the 
properties had been overvalued in 2006. Mr M and Mr W were unhappy with the approach 
Topaz had taken to their complaint and asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to look into 
it. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She explained that a lender is entitled to rely on the professional opinion of an appropriately 
qualified expert when it comes to the value of a property. As the surveyor involved in the 
valuation of the property involved in this complaint was RICS registered, it would be 
considered appropriately qualified. As such, we couldnt hold Topaz responsible for the 
content of the valuations, including how much the surveyor concluded the properties were 
worth in 2006. However, it was reasonable that it relied on the valuation when deciding 
whether to lend and how much.
Mr M and Mr W didnt accept the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. They said they were not told in 2006 that the valuations were just for the lenders 
use and were not provided with copies of them at that time. Having now seen the valuations 
they commented that the surveyors didnt look at local comparables and one said the value 
was at the top end of what would be expected, which would have rung alarm bells if they 
had seen it at the time. In addition, Mr M and Mr W raised a new issue about the 
administration of the mortgage. This was about the terms and conditions regarding the 
interest rate and loan-to-value being reviewed annually. They said it was obvious this had 
not been happening.
What Ive decided  and why
Mr M and Mr W have raised new issues during their discussions with this service. This 
decision will not comment on those issues as Topaz is entitled to consider any complaint 
made about it before this service becomes involved. If Mr M and Mr W want their further 
concerns addressed, they should refer them to Topaz in the first instance.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in a lenders interests to accept security for a mortgage that is not worth enough to 
repay the mortgage in the event the property has to be sold. However, lenders are not 
property experts, but as I have said, they need to know whether a property is suitable to 
security for the mortgage that has been applied for. In order to establish if the property is 
suitable, a lender will usually employ an independent expert to assess the property and 
provide the information the lender needs in the form of a valuation report.
As with all BTL borrowers, Mr M and Mr W cannot place any reliance on the valuations 
Topaz had done on the properties. This is the established legal position. The valuation was 
carried out for Topazs purposes only and no duty of care was owed to Mr M and Mr W in 
relation to the content of the valuation. This may well be why it was not provided to Mr M and 
Mr W in 2006.
Topazs only duty was to ensure the valuation is carried out by a suitably qualified person or 
business. As the firm of surveyors in this case wase RICS-qualified, I am satisfied that 
Topaz fulfilled its duty in appointing a properly qualified business to complete the valuation. 
As such, Topaz was entitled to rely on the valuation when the decision to lend was made 
and I cant hold it responsible for the content of the report if it was wrong. 
For completeness, I would confirm the surveyors dont fall within the remit of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. So I cant make any comment on whether or not the surveyors report 
was accurate or not. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M and Mr W, given their strength of feeling 
about this matter. However, I cant find Topaz is responsible for the content of the surveys, 
as they would like me to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M and Mr W to accept or reject my decision 
before 25 July 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman