DRN-2569704
Complaint
Mr P has complained about a loan Lendable Limited (Lendable) provided to him. He says 
the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Lendable provided Mr P with a loan of £1,000.00 in June 2019. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 35 monthly instalments of £37.09 and a final instalment of £26.58. One of our 
adjudicators reviewed what Mr P and Lendable told us. She thought Lendable hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly. So she didnt recommend that Mr Ps complaint be 
upheld. Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ps complaint.
Lendable needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Lendable needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr P 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lendable provided Mr P with a loan for £1,000.00 in June 2019. The loan had an APR of 
21.8% and was to be repaid in 36 instalments of around £37, which meant the total amount 
to be repaid was £1,324.73. Lendable says it agreed to Mr Ps application after he provided 
details of his monthly income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-
checked this against information on a credit search it carried out. It says all of this showed 
Mr P could comfortably make the relatively low monthly repayments. On the other hand,    
Mr P says he was in financial difficulty and shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr P and Lendable have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Lendable has provided a record of the credit search 
information it received. Lendable searches showed Mr P had had some historic payday 
loans. But there wasnt anything to suggest that hed taken any loans in the months leading 
up to this application. Mr P may have had some existing debts but these dont appear 
excessive. And bearing in mind Mr Ps income and the low monthly payments for this loan, I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for Lendable to have proceeded with this application. 
I accept that Mr Ps actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Lendable obtained. I know that he took out 
further credit after this loan and he was gambling. But the key here is that its only fair and 
reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something 
wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think 
that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into obtaining Mr Ps bank 
statements. And even then Mr Ps statements in the leadup to the application dont show that 
he wasnt able to repay £37 a month. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Lendable did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Mr P - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. So overall I dont think that Lendable treated   
Mr P unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his loan. 
Ive also seen considered Lendables actions once Mr P said he couldnt make payments. 
And it does look as though Lendable took reasonable steps to work with Mr P. It reduced   
Mr Ps payments for three months when he got into contact and extended this when Mr P 
said he was still unable to make payments further down the line. So I think that Lendable did 
exercise forbearance when Mr P ran into difficulty making his payments and I dont think that 
it acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr P in some other way. 
Overall and having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr P. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint, Id like to remind Lendable of its ongoing 
obligation to exercise forbearance in light of what Mr P has said about his ability to make 
payments to this loan, should it choose to collect payments from him and it be the case hes 
still experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman