DRN-2174319
The complaint
Mr O complains that Aviva Insurance Limited increased the premium for his motor insurance 
policy by an unreasonable amount at renewal in 2019. 
What happened
Mr O told us that in April 2019 his car scratched the door of another drivers car when he 
was reversing in a car park. He asked the other driver to let him know how much it cost, so 
he could pay for it privately, but instead she made a claim that Aviva settled. Mr O told us 
that Aviva asked him about the accident and he told the advisor what had happened. 
Mr O had made a claim on the policy earlier in the same policy year when he damaged his 
car on a bollard. He said at renewal in 2019 Aviva cancelled his nine year no claims discount 
(NCD) following the claims. The renewal premium in 2019 rose from £516 to £1,747. Mr O 
thought that was excessive and unjustified. Later, Mr O told us that in his opinion, the 
premium had risen so much because Aviva paid out too much on the claims. He thought the 
repairs could have been done for far less. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Os complaint. He said we could only look at Mr Os 
concern about the increase in premium, as that was the issue Aviva had considered and had 
then been raised with us. The investigator noted that Mr O had two fault claims on his record 
within the policy year. He also noted that Aviva had reduced his NCD in line with the step-
back table in the policy. So he didnt think it had acted unreasonably. 
In a later call with the investigator, Mr O raised the issue of not having been advised properly 
by Aviva about one of the claims as well as the size of its outlay on both claims. He also 
referred to a call with Aviva that he wasnt happy with. The investigator said hed follow up 
on any other complaint Mr O had made to Aviva but couldnt deal with it as part of this 
complaint. 
Subsequently, Aviva confirmed that Mr O had raised a separate complaint with its claims 
team about not being given full details about the other drivers settlement. It said Mr O had 
agreed that the records of the claims should be left as they were - and that being given 
further details would have made no difference to his renewal premium. Aviva said any further 
issues Mr O wished to raise would have to be put to it separately.  
As Mr O wasnt happy with the investigators view about the increase in his premium, the 
complaint was passed to me for review.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O hasnt said he thinks it was wrong for Aviva to take into account the two fault claims on 
his policy in 2018 / 2019 when assessing what to charge him for cover at renewal in 2019. 
Other insurers would have done the same  and a fault claim usually leads to a rise in 
premium. Insurers generally consider that if a claim on a policy has been made, theres a 
greater risk of a further claim than there would be otherwise. 
Until the two claims on the policy were made, Mr O had nine years NCD. That meant Aviva 
had allowed him the maximum reduction available on the premium he would otherwise have 
paid for cover in 2018. Unfortunately, although Mr O could have paid extra to protect his 
NCD, he didnt do so. The policy document has a table setting out the effect on NCD of 
claims on the policy. After one claim in a policy year, NCD is reduced to three years if it isnt 
protected. After two claims in a policy year, unprotected NCD is reduced to zero. That meant 
Mr O lost all his discount and faced an increase to reflect two new fault claims on his policy.
The increase in premium at renewal was substantial, so I can see why Mr O was shocked by 
it. Mr O didnt have to accept the renewal offer, as he could have looked elsewhere for a 
more competitive price. But I dont think Mr O can show that Aviva did anything wrong in 
reviewing the risk it thought Mr O posed, given the two new claims. Aviva checked its 
calculations on the premium when Mr O complained to it and it has provided us with 
underwriting data. I cant see any evidence that shows Aviva did anything wrong. 
Mr O has already been advised by this service that the amount paid out by Aviva on the 
claims would have had no impact on the premium. It seems Mr O has already complained to 
Aviva about that and about other claims issues, but they arent part of this complaint. If there 
are issues that Mr O hasnt yet raised with Aviva, he would have to do that - and allow it to 
deal with his concerns - before he can ask us to consider whether Aviva acted fairly.
In this case, as I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably by disallowing Mr Os NCD and by 
raising the premium for his policy at renewal, I cant uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman