DRN-3099234
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC irresponsibly allowed her to open a 
credit card account which was unaffordable.
What happened
Mrs M says Tesco shouldnt have allowed her to open a credit card account in 2015 as it 
ought to have been clear to it that the lending was unaffordable. She says she was on a low 
income with existing debts and that Tesco didnt carry out appropriate checks. Mrs M says 
Tesco irresponsibly lent to her and should not have increased the credit limit. She would like 
all interest and charges refunded.
Tesco says Mrs M applied for the account in February 2015 and it did carry out appropriate 
checks. It says Mrs M declared an income of £8,000 a year and said she lived with parents 
and so didnt have to pay rent or a mortgage. Tesco says it calculated Mrs M existing debt at 
about £900 and says she didnt have any adverse information on her credit file. It says a 
credit limit of £2,000 was approved which was increased in 2017 to £2,500. It also says Mrs 
M managed the account appropriately and repaid the balance in 2018. 
Mrs M brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint and thought 
Tesco ought to have verified Mrs Ms income as she declared an income of £8,000 a year 
but said she received about £800 a month. The investigator thought Tesco ought to have 
checked Mrs Ms living costs and considered her low credit score as well as her existing 
debt. The investigator recommended Tesco refund interest and charges and pay 8% simple 
interest on that amount.
Tesco doesnt accept that view and in summary says it did carry out appropriate checks and 
did make an allowance for Mrs Ms rental cost even when she said she didnt have such an 
expense.
I asked both sides for further information and for a copy of Mrs Ms credit file and the 
account statements.
Mrs M says she did have an income of £8,000 a year and says it was about £800 a month. 
She also says she had other credit card accounts that were opened in 2011,2016 and 2017. 
Mrs M says her husband earned about £800 a month and he made the Tesco credit card 
account repayments.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. And having done so I came to the 
provisional view that I didnt uphold this complaint.
I explained that lenders and credit providers must carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on any lending or credit applications. Those checks will of course vary depending on 
the type and amount of lending or credit. This was an application for a credit facility rather 
than for example a loan or mortgage and so I said that I wouldnt have expected Tescos 
checks to have been as detailed as for that type of lending.
I looked carefully at Tescos records and was satisfied that it did carry out checks on Mrs Ms 
credit card account application. I said that as I could see Mrs M says Tesco didnt carry out 
such checks. I was satisfied that Mrs M declared an income of £8,000 a year with limited 
outgoings. I was also satisfied that Tesco checked Mrs Ms credit file which didnt have any 
adverse information on it and that it did check her existing debt which I think was relatively 
low at about £900. So, I was satisfied that Tesco did carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on Mrs Ms application and that on the face of it the lending decision was not 
irresponsible or unaffordable.
I appreciated what the investigator said that Mrs M may not have been completely accurate 
in her income declaration, as £800 a month is more than £8,000 a year. But equally I didnt 
think such a variation required Tesco to carry out further checks and could see in any event 
Mrs M has confirmed those figures as being accurate. I also saw that Mrs M told Tesco she 
didnt pay rent as she lived with parents but has told us the rent was £400 a month. I didnt 
think that issue required Tesco to carry out further checks and thought it up to Mrs M to 
provide accurate figures. And in any event could see that Tesco did take into account such 
costs when assessing the application.
I looked at Mrs Ms credit file and I didnt think it contained any adverse information from the 
time of the application and could see that her application for other credit card accounts were 
made after 2015 with the exception of one account opened in 2011. I looked at the bank 
account statements Mrs M provided, and I didnt think they provided evidence for any 
obvious financial difficulties. I also thought Mrs Ms husband received an income which it 
appears Tesco didnt take into account.
I looked at how Mrs M managed her account and was satisfied she managed her account 
appropriately by making required payments and repaying the full balance in 2018. I thought 
that provided further evidence that the lending was affordable.
Overall, my provisional view was that the lending was affordable, and the lending decision 
was not irresponsible. I thought reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out on 
the application and on the later credit limit increase. And that Tesco was reasonably entitled 
to consider Mrs Ms low level of existing debt and lack of adverse information on her credit 
file. I appreciated Mrs M says she had another debt to a family member, but I didnt think 
Tesco could have been aware of that unless Mrs M told it about that debt. I could also see 
that Mrs M has told us her husband was in employment but some years later was unable to 
work. I thought it more likely that any financial problems may have been linked to that rather 
than to Tescos decision to approve a credit card account in 2015.
Tesco has replied to my provisional decision and doesnt wish to make further 
representations.
Mrs M has replied to my provisional decision and has provided further answers to questions I 
asked of her. In summary she says her husband lost his job in 2014 and the family income 
was made up of benefits which included working tax credit. She says she was living with her 
husbands family and paying £400 rent which she says Tescos ought to have checked but 
accepts the application contained irregularities. Mrs M says she didnt receive any letters 
about credit limit increases and all payments were made by her husband. She hasnt 
provided her husbands account statements.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons. I appreciate that Mrs M will be disappointed by my 
decision.
Im satisfied that Tesco in line with agreed account terms and conditions can re-assess 
credit limits. I cant fairly hold Tesco responsible for Mrs M not receiving any letters about a 
credit limit increase as its not responsible for the delivery of mail. But I would have expected 
Mrs M to have noticed any increases from her account statements and raise the issue with 
Tesco if she was unhappy with it.
I appreciate Mrs M says that Tesco ought to have checked the position regarding rent 
payments. But equally I think Mrs M was responsible for the completion of the application 
and ought to have declared the rent payment. In any event I think Tesco did consider 
housing costs when assessing the application.
I also appreciate that Mrs M has provided her account statements, but I dont think they 
show the true financial picture as it was Mr M that received the benefits into his account and 
Mrs M says he made the credit card payments. Im satisfied that Mrs M could have provided 
those statements as previously requested if she wished. I also think that it is still unclear if 
her husband was working. I appreciate that he lost his job in 2014 but Mrs M says in 2021 he 
is off work due to sickness. I dont think it clear what the position was when the credit card 
account was opened.
Overall, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out by Tesco 
and that on the face of it the lending was affordable
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman