DRN-3303875
The complaint
P, a sports club, represented by one its committee members, Mr C, has complained about its 
property insurer, Allianz Insurance Plc. Mr C said Allianz unfairly declined Ps claim for 
subsidence and removed Ps cover.
What happened
P had a building built in 1993. Cover with Allianz began in 2014. This pre-dated Mr Cs 
involvement with the club. 
In around 2017 Mr C was reviewing Ps financial documents and was concerned that there 
was no subsidence cover on Ps insurance policy. He looked to amend this and in 2018 he 
was alerted to some cracks. Allianz was notified, Mr C organised a structural survey and just 
prior to renewal in 2019 it transpired that subsidence might be occurring and a claim to 
Allianz was made. Allianz investigated the claim, felt the damage likely pre-existed its cover 
and declined it. When the policy came due for renewal in 2020  and whilst Mr C was 
challenging Allianzs decision, it said it wouldnt offer renewal because of the pre-existing 
damage.
When Mr C complained to us our investigator upheld the complaint. She felt Allianz should 
reinstate Ps cover and deal with the subsidence claim. 
Mr C indicated that he agreed with the findings. Allianz objected to them. It said it felt it was 
entitled not to offer renewal due to the damage. And in respect of the claim it maintained it 
had shown the damage was pre-existing and explained that this claim doesnt fit within the 
industry agreement that exists about when damage is found. It said its policy was based 
upon when damage occurs, and the industry agreement is for residential policies, not 
commercial ones like this. The complaint was passed for an ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Allianz should be dealing with this claim as well as reinstating the policy. Ill explain.
I appreciate that, at times, Mr C has been a little unclear about the timescales for this 
damage. I think that is reasonable given the nature of his role and the periods in question. 
And I accept he did indicate that shortly after the building was erected in 1993 some 
cracking was found. But Im not persuaded that Allianz has shown that this anecdotal detail 
means the current damage, identified by Mr C around 25 years later, has most likely been 
on-going all that time  or even since before cover with it began in 2014. There is no sign, for 
example, of previous repairs to cracks that have opened up again. 
I understand that the nature of the site  clay soil with large trees in the vicinity  along with 
the fact that foundations for the new building were fairly shallow, might mean the building 
was always potentially at risk of damage. It is possible that it has, as Allianz thinks, been 
moving to some extent during the whole course of its life. But that doesnt mean that damage 
has been occurring throughout all that time. It may have been, but Allianz hasnt shown it 
most likely was. 
Our investigator felt that, in any event, it would be fair and reasonable, given that it seems 
that damage has been occurring during the period of cover with Allianz, that Allianz should 
deal with the claim. I know Allianz thinks it shouldnt have to as that method for dealing with 
subsidence damage comes from an industry agreement that only applies to residential 
policies. But that agreement has been in place for some time and this service has long held 
that it is often fair to apply the ethos of that agreement even to non-residential covers. Thats 
because the idea behind the agreement sits at the heart of not only this services fair and 
reasonable remit, but also of the overriding duty of the insurer to treat customers fairly. In 
essence that damage has occurred, which is covered by a policy in place and that an 
unsophisticated policyholder shouldnt be caught between two insurers, trying to evidence 
when and to what extent damage occurred. Nothing Allianz has said makes me think it 
would be unfair or unreasonable for me to make it deal with this claim.
I know Allianz only chose to opt out of covering P in 2020. But this service has also long held 
that an insurer, when a subsidence claim is on-going, shouldnt refuse to continue cover. 
That is because it is most likely that, in that situation, the claimant wont be able to find 
alternate cover (due to the on-going and unresolved nature of the subsidence and claim). 
That is unless some other bar to it offering cover arises. Here Allianz has confirmed that it 
was the subsidence damage that made it take the decision not to offer further cover. In the 
circumstances I think that was unfair. Cover, in my view should be reinstated to date  but P 
should be aware that, if it is, that will generate a need for it to pay backdated premiums.
Putting things right
I require Allianz, (if P wants it to) to reinstate the policy to date and (irrespective of the 
reinstatement) deal with the subsidence claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Allianz Insurance Plc to provide the redress set out above 
at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman