DRN-3836588
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the way in which The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
resolved the mis-sale of some payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
Mr F complained to RBS about the sale of PPI on a series of loans.
RBS agreed the PPI policies had been mis-sold. But they offset the redress, using it to clear 
the arrears on a separate, unrelated loan account.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They explained 
that RBS were only able to set off the PPI redress against the associated accounts. RBS 
disagreed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Fs complaint, and Ill explain why.
The most relevant rules here come from DISP App 3. Among other things, this explains how 
RBS should put right the mis-sale of a PPI policy.
Under DISP App 3.9, RBS were allowed to use the PPI redress to reduce the balance on the 
associated loan  and only where they had a contractual right to do so. So RBS could offset 
Mr Fs compensation against the loan each PPI policy related to. But it does not allow them 
to use the PPI redress to offset other, unrelated debts.
Here, the loan that RBS offset the PPI redress against was not an associated account. It 
was a separate loan, unrelated to the ones which the PPI policies related to. So under the 
relevant rules, RBS were not entitled to set off the redress against that loan. And Ive not 
seen any good reason to depart from those rules in this particular case.
Ive also thought more broadly about the banks right to set off  which generally applies to 
owed amounts which are closely connected. There does not appear to be any close 
connection between the PPI policies and the loan RBS offset their redress against  other 
than them being in Mr Fs name and having been sold by HSBC. The redress from the PPI 
policies arose from regulatory failings. Whereas the arrears on the loan are not the result of 
regulatory failings and flow from entirely different circumstances. So the PPI redress and the 
arrears on the loan appear to be broadly unconnected. Certainly, Im not persuaded that they 
are so closely connected that it would be fair or reasonable to offset one against the other.
It follows that I think RBS should pay Mr F the PPI redress directly.
Putting things right
I direct The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay the PPI redress to Mr F directly, updating the 
8% simple interest portion to reflect the extra time hes been out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Fs complaint, and direct The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman