DRN-1249672
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy Moneyback Limited has charged a fee for their mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr and Mrs H said they spoke to an agent of Moneyback about making 
PPI claims. Mr and Mrs H said they specifically checked whether any compensation would 
be used to offset the outstanding overdraft they had with their lender. They said they were 
given assurances that any compensation wouldn't be used for this.
In April 2019, Mr and Mrs H signed a letter of engagement (LoE) instructing Moneyback to 
act on their behalf to pursue any PPI claims. Mr and Mrs H did have a successful claim. But 
the compensation awarded was used by their lender to offset against their overdraft, so they 
didn't receive anything. And Moneyback has asked for their fee as the claim was successful.
Mr and Mrs H don't agree the fee being asked for by Moneyback should be paid, as they 
said Moneyback had mis-led them about their overdraft not being affected by any 
compensation that was awarded. 
Moneyback didn't believe their agent would have said any compensation couldn't be used to 
offset an overdraft. And said their terms and conditions explained that any redress could be 
used to reduce a loan with the lender. But they offered to reduce the fee by 10% to a total of 
£678.29, payable over six months.
Mr and Mrs H wasn't happy with Moneyback's response and referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator said Moneyback had made it clear in their terms and conditions that any 
compensation could be used to offset any debt. And Mr and Mrs H's overdraft was a debt. 
So she said Moneyback's fee should be paid, and their offer to reduce their fee by 10% was 
fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs H didn't agree and have asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so,  I'm not upholding the 
complaint. I'll explain why.
Its not unusual for me to need to decide a case where its simply not possible to know 
exactly what happened. In situations where I cant ever know for sure what took place, I will 
make my decision based on the balance of the evidence that I do have. I can understand Mr and Mrs H's frustration as they said they'd discussed the offset of any 
compensation against their overdraft. And it was only after they'd been given reassurance 
that their overdraft wouldn't be considered, that they decided to go ahead with Moneyback to 
make their PPI claim.  A recording of this call isn't available, so I can't say what was or 
wasn't said. 
But before Moneyback pursued the PPI claim with Mr and Mrs H's lender, they asked Mr and 
Mrs H to sign a LoE and sent them their terms and conditions. 
On 6 April 2019, Mr and Mrs H signed the LoE. And in signing this document they said 
they'd:
" ..... read, agreed and retained a copy of the Terms and Conditions"
Given Mr and Mrs H were aware of the potential to offset any compensation, and that they 
had sought reassurance about this. I'd think it would be reasonable to expect them to check 
what they said they were told against the terms and conditions they were going to 
agree to. And in Moneyback's terms and conditions the first paragraph says:
"Benefit"means all monetary and non monetary benefits arising from our services. This will 
often be a cash refund to you but in some cases may also include debt reduction and/or 
cancellation. For example if you are in arrears on a loan/credit card or any other form of 
debt, all or part of the refund may be used to pay off the arrears. If this happens, you will 
have benefited from our service and our fees will be payable in line with our service 
charges".
I think  "any other form of debt"  should have caused Mr and Mrs H concern about what they 
said they'd previously been told. But they didn't question this further with Moneyback and 
returned the LoE. And Moneyback then acted on their behalf in pursing their PPI claim. 
The agreement Mr and Mrs H had with Moneyback was on a No win No fee basis. This 
means Moneyback charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of 
work it did. So, any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Mr and 
Mrs H's PPI claim was successful. And as outlined above Moneyback's terms and conditions 
are clear in that if any compensation is used to offset a debt their fee would still be payable. 
So I'm satisfied Moneyback can charge their fee.
Moneyback has offered to reduce their fee by 10% to £678.29. It will be for Mr and Mrs H to 
decide whether to accept this offer as I'm satisfied Moneyback can charge their fee.
My final decision
I'm not upholding this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman