DRN-4165067
The complaint
Ms R and Mr W are unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC have managed their 
mortgage application. They said their application was delayed and this has led to them 
missing out on the stamp duty holiday. 
What happened
Ms R and Mr W took a mortgage out with Barclays in September 2019 on a shared equity 
basis. They wanted to increase their share from 50% to 100% (also known as staircasing) so 
they made a mortgage application with Barclays in August 2020. 
Barclays instructed a valuer to inspect the property. The valuer said the propertys external 
walls may contain potentially combustible materials, so they wanted a satisfactory EWS1 
form.
An EWS1 form is a document produced by a qualified fire safety professional reporting on 
the state of a propertys external wall system. Its often produced where there are concerns 
that a building might have combustible cladding on its walls. 
Ms R and Mr W acknowledge that this was difficult to obtain which meant that the application 
which was made in August 2020  expired. 
Once Ms R and Mr W obtained the EWS1 form for the property, a new application was 
submitted on 31 May 2021. Barclays have accepted that there was a delay in processing the 
second valuation which caused a delay of around one month, but they proceeded to send 
out a mortgage offer on 24 July 2021. 
Completion of the staircasing occurred on 25 November 2021 and Ms R and Mr W say that 
due to Barclays delays, they missed out on the stamp duty holiday. They also said that the 
adviser made an error with regards to the deposit they needed which meant they had to pay 
an additional £10,000 on the day of completion which caused them unnecessary stress. 
Barclays accepted there was a delay due to the processing of the second valuation, but they 
said that most of the delays were in Ms R and Mr W trying to obtain the EWS1 form, which 
subsequently meant that the first application had expired. They said that completion took a 
further four months so even if they had processed the valuation sooner, Ms R and Mr W 
wouldnt have completed before the stamp duty holiday window ended.
Barclays said that the adviser noted down an incorrect purchase price, and they have 
offered Ms R and Mr W £300 in recognition of this as well as for the poor complaint journey 
and delays in processing the valuation.
Ms R and Mr W didnt agree with Barclays, so they brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. The investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint and didnt think that the delay caused by Barclays meant that Ms 
R and Mr W missed out on the stamp duty holiday. He felt that the delays were mostly 
caused by Ms R and Mr W trying to obtain the EWS1 form. He also accepted that the 
adviser at Barclays noted down the incorrect purchase price which resulted in the wrong 
deposit being applied but thought the £300 compensation that Barclays offered overall was 
fair. 
Ms R and Mr W didnt agree with the investigator. They said that no fault of their own there 
were delays which meant they missed the stamp duty holiday which resulted in them being 
worse off, and that £300 is not enough to rectify this. They also said that Barclays calculated 
the deposit incorrectly which messed up their cash flow as they had to pay more on the day 
of completion. 
As they didnt agree, they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it 
has been passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 16 May 2023. I said:
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Application delays and stamp duty holiday
The stamp duty holiday was introduced by the government to help the housing 
market recover from the effects of its shutdown in the first lockdown of 2020.
From 8 July 2020 to 30 June 2021, the stamp duty nil rate band  the range of the 
property prices in which no stamp duty was payable  was increased to £500,000. 
The nil band was then reduced to £250,000 from 1 July 2021 to 30 September 2021, 
reverting to the previous limit of £125,000 from 1 October 2021.
Ms R and Mr W initially made their first application in August 2020. The surveyor who 
carried out the valuation required an EWS1 form to assess the fire safety of the 
property.
The EWS1 form was introduced in collaboration between government, the mortgage 
industry and the surveying industry following the Grenfell Tower tragedy. The fire at 
Grenfell Tower led to concerns across the country about the possibility of 
combustible cladding and other fire safety issues which might allow a fire to spread 
quickly through affected buildings.
The EWS1 process was designed, among other things, to give mortgage lenders 
enough information to decide whether a building presented a particular fire safety 
risk. Lenders will therefore only lend where the property is subject to the property 
being good security for the loan  and if there is a fire safety risk, it might not be good 
security. 
General guidance to the surveyors and valuers from their professional body at the 
time was that an EWS1 will be required where there are potential cladding or other 
issues, and the building is six storeys or higher. And that an EWS1 may be required 
for smaller buildings too, if there are grounds for considering theres a risk that needs 
to be assessed. 
In common with other lenders, Barclays took these issues into account in setting their 
lending criteria for lending mortgages on properties in blocks of flats and similar 
buildings. Barclays lending criteria states that a surveyor is to assess the building in 
line with directions given by Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) 
guidance in determining the risks posed by the cladding attachments to a building. 
Where its deemed necessary, the surveyor will require the production of an EWS1 
certificate  as was the case here. 
I can see from the contact notes that Barclays provided that there were initially some 
issues with the EWS1 form that was submitted to the surveyors as it didnt contain 
full details of the property itself. The EWS1 form which was accepted was dated 23 
June 2021. As time progressed, the initial application that Ms R and Mr W had made in August 
2020 had expired and the previous valuation was only valid for three months. So Ms 
R and Mr W made a second application on 31 May 2021.
There isnt any dispute that Barclays caused a delay of around one month by not 
processing the second valuation in time. But once they had done this, they 
proceeded to send out a mortgage offer which was dated 24 July 2021.
The crux of the issue here, is that Ms R and Mr W believe that had it of not been for 
the delays that Barclays caused, they would have been able to utilise the stamp duty 
holiday. 
Completion of the staircasing application didnt go through until 25 November 2021, 
which was four months from the date of the mortgage offer. So even if Barclays didnt 
cause the delay in processing the valuation, they could have possibly arranged to get 
the mortgage offer out sooner  so around 24 June 2021. The stamp duty holiday 
ended on 30 June 2021 so its not reasonable to suggest that the mortgage would 
have completed by the end of that month. 
The stamp duty nil band was then reduced to £250,000 from 1 July 2021 to 30 
September 2021. If we take the four months that it took for completion to happen 
from the date of the mortgage offer, its reasonable to suggest it would have taken 
the same amount of time, regardless of when the mortgage offer was issued. So if 
the mortgage offer was issued on 24 June 2021  its likely the mortgage wouldnt 
have completed until the end of October 2021. So Ms R and Mr W would have 
missed the reduction in the nil rate band too. I cant therefore reasonably say that the 
delay that Barclays caused in processing the second valuation would have prevented 
Ms R and Mr W from benefiting from the stamp duty holiday. 
I appreciate that Ms R and Mr W strongly believe the delays overall have caused 
them to miss this window, but most of the delay was in them trying to obtain the 
EWS1 form which Barclays required. I understand it wasnt their fault that this took so 
long, but it wasnt Barclays fault either. As stated above, the surveyor asked for an 
EWS1 to check the property and Barclays are entitled to rely on the opinion of the 
valuer.  So overall, I cant agree that Barclays caused delays which meant that Ms R 
and Mr W missed the stamp duty holiday.
Error in calculating the deposit required
Having looked at all the evidence provided, it seems as though the purchase price 
increased on the second valuation which meant that the deposit which had been 
discussed from the first application and valuation would have changed.
Barclays said that the adviser wasnt made aware of this change which would have 
meant that a higher deposit would have been required by Ms R and Mr W. However, 
I would have expected the mortgage adviser to have checked the valuation report 
once it had been received to see if anything had changed. Had they of done this, 
they would have informed Ms R and Mr W that they needed to increase the amount 
of their deposit  which they would have been aware of before the completion date. 
Ms R and Mr W said they had to pay an additional £10,000 for the deposit on the day 
of completion which messed up their cash flow. I do understand that this would have 
been very stressful and frustrating to find this out so late in the day and that it would 
have caused Ms R and Mr W unnecessary effort on the day to sort out. 
From looking at the evidence provided, it seems that the deposit funds were coming 
from savings and investments that Ms R and Mr W had, so arranging this deposit 
would have come from the same source regardless, but they should have been 
aware of this much sooner than they were. Barclays offered £300 compensation for the inconvenience caused for the delay in 
uploading the second valuation and for the error they made in the deposit calculation. 
However, I dont think this is enough and I dont think it highlights the impact that this 
had on Ms R and Mr W. 
Barclays have focused their error more so on the fact that they uploaded the second 
valuation late and said that the mortgage adviser wasnt made aware of the purchase 
price increasing. But like I said, they should have checked the valuation so that this 
didnt come as a shock on the day of completion. So I think Barclays should pay Ms 
R and Mr W an additional £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. I think a 
total of £600 is fair and reasonable in these circumstances. I think £200 for the delay 
in uploading the valuation is fair and £400 is for the stress and inconvenience that the 
shortfall of deposit had on Ms R and Mr W. 
Developments
Barclays responded to the provisional decision and accepted what I had said. Ms R and Mr 
W also accepted the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted the provisional decision, and I have no further comments to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay Ms R and Mr W £600 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman