DRN-4009984
The complaint
Ms W complains that HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) blocked two cheques resulting in her 
loosing £720 tax relief on investments. She would like more compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience than the £60 that HSBC has offered her.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
There is no dispute that HSBC tried to call Ms W on 6 April 2022 about two cheques 
over which it had fraud concerns. It has explained that its policy, when there is a  
potential fraud concern, is to try to contact the customer before 2pm. If it is unable to 
do so it returns the cheques as unpaid, as was the case here. As HSBC followed its 
fraud policy, and the policy is there to protect both the consumer and the bank, I cant 
say that it did anything wrong.
Its unfortunate that Ms W couldnt contact HSBC until the day after it called. I 
appreciate this meant that Ms W lost out on making a financial transaction at the end 
of the tax year which she has evidenced. I also appreciate and accept Ms Ws point, 
and the supporting evidence provided, that she would have been within the time 
limits to make her investments in the tax year in question had HSBC not blocked the 
cheques. But I think the main issue is that HSBC couldnt contact Ms W. So, with no 
contact from her it went ahead  and followed its policy in returning the cheques. I 
appreciate HSBCs timescale for getting a response back from Ms W was tight  she 
had to reply by 2pm the day it left a message. But in cases of potential fraud I think a 
tight timescale isnt unreasonable. I dont think I can reasonably say that HSBC is 
responsible for the tax relief loss on an investment.
I also appreciate the frustration Ms W experienced in contacting HSBC. HSBC has 
accepted it service was below the standard expected and has given feedback to 
various members of staff. It has offered £60 compensation which I think is 
reasonable for the distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank plc has made a fair offer.
In full and final settlement HSBC UK Bank plc should pay Ms W £60 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience if it has not done so already
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman