DRN-3781957
The complaint
Miss U has complained to Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) about claim delays under her home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss U contacted Zurich to make a claim following an escape of water at her home. Zurich 
accepted the claim. A few months later, Miss U complained to Zurich because she was 
concerned about delays with progressing her claim and poor communication. When Zurich 
replied, it said Miss Us recent material choices had been included in the updated scope and 
submitted for approval. Settlement would then be confirmed. It said it appreciated there had 
been some confusion and minor delays when reviewing this. It offered £100 compensation 
as an apology.
Miss U contacted this service to complain. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said 
Zurich had suggested Miss U was the primary source of the delays. However, he hadnt 
seen evidence to show this. He said Zurich should pay a total of £500 compensation 
because of the issues with progressing the claim.
As Zurich didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Miss U had an escape of water at her home. Zurich initially seemed to progress the claim 
promptly, including appointing a company to dry the property. Zurich then had to chase the 
drying company for progress on contacting Miss U to arrange the drying. The company told 
Zurich strip-out works were also required, which it said it could carry out. After some further 
chasing, the company then said it couldnt do the strip-out works and that another contractor 
would need to be appointed.
When a new contractor was appointed, this company said asbestos testing would need to be 
carried out on some tiles. The original contractor also needed to be contacted to check what 
needed to be stripped out, as this hadnt been specified. It was then identified that asbestos 
was present, which needed to be removed. The original contractor also contacted Zurich to 
say it could no longer carry out the drying, so a new contractor needed to be appointed. The 
asbestos was then removed and a new contractor was told the drying could start. A few 
weeks later the drying was confirmed as complete.
So, I think there were issues with a contractor saying it could do the required work and then, 
over time, saying it couldnt. There also seemed to be issues with identifying the work that 
needed to be carried out for the claim to progress and the drying to start.
Zurich and the contractor said there were delays because Miss U kept changing her mind 
about the kitchen details and materials. Looking at the records, I can see Miss U kept 
chasing the contractor for updates and that Zurich told the contractor it needed to reply to 
the queries. The contractor was also told to ensure it explained the impact of Miss U 
changing her mind about the kitchen details. Zurich told this service it thought Miss U might 
have been told this on the phone, although I havent seen evidence that shows this. From 
what Ive seen, there seemed to be delays in the contractor responding to Miss Us queries 
and this seemed to add to her concerns and the number of queries she had. Although Miss 
U seemed to change her mind on some aspects of the work, I havent seen evidence that 
persuades me that there was clear communication with Miss U about timescales or the 
impact of changing some of the design or materials. Based on what Ive seen, some of the 
changes also seemed to be in response to some materials not being available or the design 
not being correct.
Im also aware the contractor then decided it couldnt do the work and that a cash settlement 
would be more suitable. There then seemed to be further delays in agreeing a cash 
settlement and this issue remained outstanding when the final response to the complaint 
was issued, although Im aware this has since progressed.
Miss Us complaint was about the delays in the work starting and poor communication by 
contractors. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think there were issues with appointing 
appropriate contractors and with the drying works starting. Miss U raised a number of 
concerns and queries and the contractor had to be told to reply. I also havent seen evidence 
that timescales were clearly explained to Miss U, including the impact of changes to design 
or materials. As Ive noted, some of the changes Miss U requested also seemed to be due to 
issues with material availability or concerns about the design. 
Ive thought carefully about what happened during this claim and whether Zurich fairly 
compensated Miss U. Having done so, I dont think it did. Looking at the issues with 
progressing the claim and around communication, I think Zurich should pay a total of £500 
compensation, as I think this more fairly reflects the impact on Miss U because of how her 
claim was handled.
Putting things right
Zurich should pay Miss U a total of £500 compensation, which includes the compensation it 
previously offered.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Zurich Insurance PLC to pay Miss U a total of £500 compensation, which includes the 
compensation it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman