DRN-3481251
The complaint
Mr B complains that when he tried to take out £240 from an ATM using his card provided by 
Think Money Limited (Think), the machine didnt pay. He complained, and Think paid him 
the money, but then took it back when the ATM owner said Mr B had been paid.
What happened
Mr B told us that on 21 October 2021 he tried to use his Think card to take £240 out of an 
ATM owned by a different bank. He got his card back, but he said no cash was dispensed. 
He said he then went elsewhere, checked his balance and took out a smaller amount. 
Think told us that Mr B contacted it about the missing money on 25 October. Think credited 
Mr Bs account with the amount he said was missing, and it raised a query with the bank that 
owned the ATM. But that bank said that Mr Bs transaction had completed. It could show that 
hed received the money, in £20 notes. So Think took back the money it had advanced to Mr 
B, and said it couldnt help him any further. 
Mr B was very unhappy, and he wanted us to look into this.
Our investigator didnt this complaint should be upheld. She said Think had provided 
sufficient evidence, and there was unfortunately nothing to suggest Mr B didnt receive the 
funds. 
Mr B said he wasnt satisfied, and he thought we should get the CCTV from the ATM. He 
said he wouldnt be able to get that himself. Our investigator said Mr B could ask for that 
himself, if he wanted it, and she hadnt changed her mind. Because no agreement was 
reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Think has shown us the records it obtained from the ATM, and those do indicate that Mr Bs 
money was dispensed. Its also shown us that there wasnt a surplus left in the machine, 
which is what I would expect if Mr Bs money had been retained for some reason. I know that 
Mr B would have liked us to seek further evidence to see what happened, but unfortunately 
its extremely unlikely for an ATM owner to still have CCTV now. 
I have considered what Mr B has said carefully, but I also have to weigh this against the 
records from the ATM which Think obtained. And, on the evidence I have seen, Im not able 
to say that its most likely Mr Bs money wasnt dispensed. That, in turn, means that it wasnt 
wrong for Think to take back the money it had credited him with, while it investigated what 
had happened.
I know that Mr B will be very disappointed by this, but I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman