DRN-3837033
The complaint
Mrs W complains that eBay Commerce UK Ltd didnt give her clear information about its 
managed payments service.
Mrs W is represented in this complaint by her husband, Mr W who initially raised concerns 
with eBay. However, Mrs W is the holder of the account with eBays managed payments 
service, so she is the only one who is eligible to bring a complaint about this matter to our 
service. For ease, Ill refer to anything said by Mr W as being said by Mrs W.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had an account with eBays marketplace which was registered using their 
joint email address. In December 2021, they uploaded Mrs Ws bank account details so they 
could receive payments for items they might sell on eBay.
eBay later asked for photographic identification to be provided before it would release funds 
for an item they sold.
Mr and Mrs W were concerned about being asked for this information as theyd held an eBay 
account for many years. They didnt think eBay had made it clear that they were applying for 
its managed payments service when they supplied bank account details. They said eBay 
also hadnt made it clear that they had a right to withdraw within a 14 day cooling-off period. 
They complained to eBay but they were dissatisfied with its response, so they asked our 
service to consider the matter. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that eBay had 
given Mrs W information about its managed payments service and shed agreed to the terms 
of use. 
Mrs W disagreed with our investigators outcome. So, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Mrs W I have considered all her points, even if Ive not addressed each of 
them individually. Ive focused on what I believe is most relevant to the outcome of her 
complaint. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs W raised concerns about eBays request for identification 
documents in emails to it. However, theyve said that eBays holding of funds is a secondary 
consideration and not the reason for Mrs Ws complaint. So, Ive only considered Mrs Ws 
concerns regarding her being signed up to eBays managed payments service.
eBay says Mrs W signed up to its managed payments service in December 2021 and 
agreed to its payments terms of use when she did. Mrs W acknowledges providing bank 
account details at this time. However, she says she was unaware that she was opening an 
account as the process was not clearly explained. She doesnt believe she gave explicit 
consent to enter a financial agreement with eBay. 
eBay has provided a screenshot to show what Mrs W would have seen at the time. Below 
where the bank details needed to be entered it says: By Confirming you agree to the 
Payments Terms of Use (with a hyperlink to the terms). And beneath that there is a 
confirm box that needed to be clicked on to proceed. So, Im satisfied that eBay made it 
clear that Mrs W was agreeing to its payments terms of use by proceeding.
Mrs W says the onboarding email she received from eBay didnt make it clear she had made 
an application or let her know about her right of withdrawal. She says eBay could easily have 
included information about its cooling-off period in its confirmation email, rather than hiding it 
within its terms and conditions. 
The onboarding email says: Thanks for signing up to be an eBay seller... and then gives 
steps on how selling on eBay works. So, it looks like the purpose of this was to let Mrs W 
know that her application to sell items on eBay had been successful. 
eBay had already directed Mrs W to its payments terms of use during her application, which 
includes information on the 14 day right of withdrawal. It was up to her to ensure she read 
and understood these before agreeing to them. 
I appreciate Mrs W feels that eBay should have reminded her of the right of withdrawal in the 
confirmation email. However, its not this services role to tell a business what to include in its 
communication with its customers. And Im not persuaded that eBay was required to 
highlight the right of withdrawal in the onboarding email. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mrs W, but Im satisfied that eBay did enough to 
make her aware that she was signing up to its managed payments service. I also think it 
gave her sufficient information about the terms she was agreeing to, including her withdrawal 
rights.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman