DRN-2904817
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr U complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax gave them incomplete 
information when it provided them with a mortgage. As a result, they feel the mortgage was 
mis-sold.
What happened
In March 2008 Mrs R and Mr U took out an interest only mortgage with Halifax. The 
mortgage was repayable over 27 years and had an initial 10-year fixed interest rate deal. 
Halifax says that the mortgage was provided on a non-advised basis.
In 2018, when their interest rate deal was due to end, Mrs R and Mr U contacted Halifax. 
Theyve said they were interested in switching their mortgage to a repayment basis and 
securing a new interest rate deal. A new two-year fixed interest rate was put in place. But the 
mortgage remained on an interest only basis as, due to a change in Mr Us employment, he 
and Mrs R didnt have enough evidence of his revised income over a sustained period to 
apply for this change.
Mrs R and Mr U have said, at that time, they became aware that, had they chosen to, they 
couldve applied to transfer their mortgage from interest only to a repayment basis previously 
 within their initial ten-year fixed interest rate deal.
Mrs R and Mr U then complained to Halifax in 2020. They said that they felt the initial 
mortgage had been mis-sold as theyd been told that the ten-year fixed interest rate deal 
meant they were tied in to the mortgage and couldnt make any changes - including 
switching it to a repayment basis. They said theyd since become aware this was incorrect. 
They were also unhappy Halifax hadnt informed them they could potentially change their 
mortgage in this way at any stage between the mortgage being taken out and them 
reviewing their arrangements in 2018. Mrs R and Mr U said had they known they couldve 
switched the mortgage to a repayment basis, they wouldve done so significantly earlier. And 
so, they felt theyd lost out as, had they switched to a repayment basis, their payments 
wouldve reduced the principal sum owed under the mortgage.
Halifax said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said Mrs R and Mr U had 
approached it and had asked for an interest only mortgage and that this was provided on a 
non-advised basis. So, it wouldnt have been required to tell them about their future options 
for changing the basis of their mortgage  rather it just needed to make them aware of the 
details of the mortgage they chose. Halifax also said that it felt the complaint mayve been 
made too late for our service to consider.
Mrs R and Mr U asked our service to consider their complaint. One of our investigators 
looked into matters. He thought that the complaint was one we could consider, as he felt it 
had been made in time.
Turning to the complaint itself, he didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong, as it had 
provided the mortgage requested and suitable information about how it worked on a non-
advised basis. And he didnt think Halifax was under any obligation to provide advice at the 
time, or later, until asked, about the other options available.
Mrs R and Mr U did not agree with the investigators findings and asked for their complaint to 
be reviewed. They said they accepted that they were not given advice but still felt the 
information provided to them was incomplete. As a result, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
Halifax said it had nothing further to add in response to our investigators opinion. Weve 
taken that to mean that it accepts that the complaint is one we can consider. Based on this, 
and as I agree with what the investigator said regarding this case being within our 
jurisdiction, my decision will look at the merits of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage offer from 2008, confirming that the mortgage was being 
provided on a non-advised basis. This is also reflected in the information recorded as part of 
the application. Mrs R and Mr U have also indicated that they accept that advice was not 
provided before they took the mortgage out. So overall, Im satisfied Halifax did not provide 
mortgage advice in 2008 or recommend a particular mortgage to Mrs R and Mr U.
Because of this, Halifaxs obligations were to provide clear information about the mortgage 
options Mrs R and Mr U enquired about at that time, to enable them to make an informed 
choice. And, as it wasnt giving advice about the mortgage they were taking at the time, it 
also wasnt required to advise them then about what they may wish to do at a later date.
Ive seen information recorded at the point of application. This indicates that Mrs R and Mr U 
already had a mortgage with another lender and were looking to re-mortgage to Halifax. And 
the information indicates they asked about interest only mortgages. Halifaxs notes indicate it 
provided several different illustrations and Mrs R and Mr U decided to move ahead with the 
ten-year fixed interest rate deal.
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage offer and the accompanying terms and conditions. Im 
satisfied these were likely provided to Mrs R and Mr U before they went ahead with the 
mortgage. And these are important documents, so I think its reasonable to expect them to 
have reviewed these documents before proceeding.
The mortgage offer is in the format which was adopted as industry standard after the advent 
of mortgage regulation. It gives clear information about the amount being borrowed and the 
monthly and total cost. It also, in my view, makes it clear that the borrowing is being provided 
on an interest only basis, that the repayments towards the mortgage will only pay off the 
interest applied and that at the end of the term the principal sum borrowed will still be owed 
to Halifax. It also makes it clear that Mrs R and Mr U will need to make arrangements so that 
they have a way of repaying this sum at the end of the term.
Based on this, I think Halifax provided Mrs R and Mr U clear information about the terms of 
the mortgage, before they entered into it.
Mrs R and Mr U have said that they were not told that they could apply to convert their 
mortgage to a repayment basis, within the fixed rate period. And this is why they think 
Halifax has made an error as otherwise they wouldve changed the mortgage structure and 
begun repaying the capital.Having reviewed the available documents, I agree that they dont specifically explain that a 
repayment mortgage could be applied for to replace the interest only mortgage  either 
within the fixed term or afterwards. The terms and conditions list, in the section on fees, a 
charge for a change of repayment type and explain that the fee would be payable if the 
account holders asked to switch from an interest only basis to a repayment mortgage. But 
there is no further mention of this that I can see, and I dont think the details of this fee are 
enough to make it clear that this is an option.
That being said, although the mortgage offer says that the interest rate is fixed for ten years, 
it doesnt say or give any indication that Mrs R and Mr U had no option to exit or change the 
mortgage in that time. There is a section called what happens if you dont want this 
mortgage anymore  suggesting they had options available. This explains that early 
repayment charges will be applicable if Mrs R and Mr U choose to exit the mortgage within 
the ten-year fixed rate period. I think this makes it clear they can exit the mortgage and make 
alternative arrangements, but that theyd have to pay a fee to do so. Indeed, the mortgage 
offer also explains you do have a right to repay the regulated mortgage contract in 
accordance with the terms
So, I accept Halifax didnt give specific information about what alternatives could be taken if 
Mrs R and Mr U chose to exit the mortgage. But I dont think it needed to, as it didnt give 
advice when the mortgage was taken. And I think it did make it clear that they could exit the 
mortgage.
Taking all of this into account I think Halifax gave Mrs R and Mr U clear information that their 
mortgage was on an interest only basis. And that, while they were on a ten-year fixed 
interest rate, they were able to exit this mortgage within that time, although that would incur 
a cost. And so, I think they were given enough information to know that they could have 
applied for an alternative mortgage, on a different repayment basis, to replace this mortgage 
at any stage, if they wanted to do so. I think that is the extent of what Halifax was required to 
explain. And I dont think it was under any obligation to contact Mrs R and Mr U, with 
unsolicited advice, to see if this was something they wanted to do.
Mrs R and Mr U have said they think they have lost out because they couldve begun 
repaying the principal sum borrowed sooner. But they were still able to make overpayments 
to reduce the principal balance, within the ten-year fixed interest rate period. And I think 
Halifax again made this clear. The mortgage offer has a section called what happens if you 
want to make overpayments which sets out that they were able to make overpayments up 
to 10% of the outstanding mortgage balance each year, without incurring any early 
repayment charges. This information is reiterated in the mortgage terms and conditions. And 
Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage statement, sent to them in 2014, which Halifax says is 
similar in format to the other statements sent annually. And this includes some additional 
information about making regular overpayments.
So, taking everything into account, I dont think Halifax has made an error when providing 
this mortgage. I think it has shared the information it needed to, and I think this information 
was sufficiently clear.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr U to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman