DRN-2672649
The complaint
Mr D complains that, in respect of his landlord insurance claim for malicious/accidental 
damage by his tenant, Ageas Insurance Limited has sought to charge multiple excesses for 
the damage in each room and not pay any of the claim. 
What happened
In September 2020 Mr D reported a claim to Ageas following damage caused to his property 
by an outgoing tenant. As Mr D lives abroad, Ageas appointed a loss adjuster who went out 
on his own to inspect the damage. Following this Ageas advised that there was no cover for 
the damage, since it was neither malicious nor accidental. It believed it was all due to wear 
and tear.
Ageas then further reviewed the claim and agreed to accept the repainting of the walls as 
accidental damage. However it deemed this to be due to ten separate incidents so ten 
excesses of £500 would apply. As this exceeded Mr Ds estimate of the cost to repair it 
couldnt offer any payment. 
On referral to this service our investigator said that it would be unfair to treat the damage as 
separate incidents. As Ageas hadnt shown these were separate incidents he thought it fair 
to treat the damage as one claim, with one excess applying.
Ageas said it was an error on its part to say the damage would be covered as accidental 
damage. But it had agreed to do so. In any event it said there were at least four separate 
incidents, the damage consisting, in various rooms and the stairwell, of stickers and wall 
coverings being applied to the wall, scuff and kick marks and drawing on the wall. Even with 
four excesses the cost of repair would exceed the estimate. It noted in any event that the 
estimate included repairs to the ceilings, door frames and skirting boards which it didnt 
accept as accidental damage. It also referred to a previous decision of this service which 
said that damage in separate rooms amounted to separate claims.
Our investigator accepted the damage to the door frames, ceilings and skirting boards didnt 
come under the accidental or malicious damage cover, but still said the damage to the walls 
should be covered as one claim.
Ageas didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas has accepted the repainting of the walls is covered under accidental damage so I 
dont think I need to go into whether the damage does come under accidental damage as 
defined in the policy. I dont think the chipped paintwork on the door frames, damage to the 
ceiling and the need to redecorate the skirting boards come under accidental damage or any 
other cover in the policy.
I need to consider then whether it is fair and reasonable to treat the damage to the walls as 
four separate incidents. There is a lack of evidence as to exactly when the damage 
occurred, it appears to have happened after the last inspection in 2019. Here Mr D is 
claiming for extensive damage to the property by his tenants (affecting most of the rooms). I 
appreciate that some of the damage may have been caused by different persons (e.g. the 
tenant and/or his children), but thats not to say the damage couldnt have happened at 
around about the same time. Essentially our approach is that where theres extensive 
damage or theres no clear evidence that the incidents occurred separately, its reasonable 
for the insurer to treat this as one claim and apply one excess. I understand that we may 
have made previous decisions allowing separate claims, but I should emphasise that each 
case must be considered on its own merits and circumstances.
So, I think it would be an artificial distinction, in this case, to regard the incidents of damage 
as separate and thus attract a separate excess and separate claim for each one. Im aware 
the insurance industry often will try to treat these as separate claims, but Ive set out our 
position on that. I think its fair and reasonable in this case to apply one excess and treat it 
as one claim.
Putting things right
As to what Ageas should pay to settle the claim, Ive accepted that the costs of 
repairing/redecorating the door frames, skirting boards and ceiling dont come under the 
claim. As Mr D has only shown us one estimate for the whole house, including those items, 
he should ask his contractor to set out the cost of redecorating the walls alone. Ageas 
should then settle the claim by paying to Mr D that revised cost, less the one excess only. If 
Mr D cant get his contractor to provide the revised estimate, Ageas should assess the cost 
of redecorating the walls alone from Mr Ds original estimate, and pay that less just the one 
excess.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Ageas to act in accordance with what Ive said under 
Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman