DRN-3867593
The complaint
Mrs S complains about how Domestic & General Insurance Plc dealt with and settled a claim 
she made under her appliance insurance for a replacement cooker.
What happened
Mrs S held an appliance insurance policy with Domestic & General Services Limited (DG). 
This policy was incepted on 6 December 2021 to insure a cooker made by a company, 
which Ill refer to as R. 
Mrs S told DG that the cooker was in good working order at the time the policy was taken out 
and that it was around 4 years old. No model number was requested by DG or provided by 
Mrs S.
On 24 January 2022, Mrs S contacted DG to report a fault with her cooker. A claim was 
raised on her behalf and an engineer was sent to Mrs S address to inspect the cooker. The 
cooker was subsequently determined to be beyond economic repair on 22 February. So, Mrs 
S was invited to replace it with a like for like model under the policy.
Mrs S contacted DG and spoke with the product replacement team. She was sent an 
electronic link offering replacement options. But the following day Mrs S contacted DG to 
explain that the models offered werent the same dimensions as the faulty appliance. A link 
with alternative appliances was sent to Mrs S, which was based on the information shed 
provided about her faulty appliance. Mrs S ordered a new appliance using the link and paid 
for installation and removal services. 
On 5 April 2022, Mrs S contacted DG to explain that the replacement appliance had had to 
be returned because it was too large and wouldnt fit. She was informed that the fees paid 
for installation and removal would be refunded and a link was resent with alternative 
appliances.
On 6 April, Mrs S contacted DG to confirm that the link wasnt working so she hadnt been 
able to order a replacement cooker. She stated shed found an appliance made by R, which 
she wanted to order. But DG explained that this was an upgraded appliance, which was 
higher in specification to the model it was intended to replace. DG stated that this model 
could be ordered by Mrs S but it would be subject to an additional charge.
Mrs S was told she could choose a different model, also made by R, which would be 
available as a like for like replacement at no additional charge. She was informed that this 
appliance had 7 functions. Mrs S proceeded to order the model proposed by DG directly with 
a retailer, which Ill call A. Delivery and installation was booked for 12 April.
Mrs S contacted DG on 13 April and advised that there was discolouration on the front door 
of the cooker. She also explained that shed been charged twice for installation and removal 
services. DG agreed to refund the overpayment and stated that Mrs S would have to report 
the issues with the cookers appearance to A directly.
On 20 April, DG received a telephone call from A who explained that Mrs S felt the 
replacement cooker was inferior in quality as she was unhappy with the number of functions 
her cooker had. She said it only had one function not 7 as informed by DG. A complaint was 
subsequently investigated by DG.
In its final response to Mrs S complaint, DG didnt uphold her concerns. It said it had 
replaced her faulty appliance on a like for like basis at Mrs S choosing and had met its 
obligations under her policy. It also stated that it couldnt uplift and replace the new cooker 
because it had been already used.
Being dissatisfied with how DG had dealt with her complaint, Mrs S complained to our 
service. Our investigator assessed the evidence provided. Overall, they thought DG had 
offered a suitable replacement model. But they thought incorrect advice had been given to 
Mrs S and that shed experienced poor service from DG. They thought it should pay Mrs S 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused. 
DG accepted our investigators view of Mrs S complaint, but she didnt. So, Ive been asked 
to decide the fairest way to resolve this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide the crux of the complaint and ensure that I respond to the main issues. 
Where I havent commented on a specific complaint point raised by Mrs S or DG its not 
because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach what I think is the right outcome for the complaint as a whole.
The crux of this complaint is whether DG made a mistake, or treated Mrs S unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. 
Its not in dispute that there was a fault with Mrs S cooker, which couldnt be repaired. It was 
on this basis that DG decided the cooker was beyond economic repair, which was a correct 
decision in the overall circumstances.
DG and Mrs S agree that the faulty cooker is covered by the terms of the appliance 
insurance policy. The terms and conditions of this policy state that where an appliance 
cannot be repaired it will be replaced with a product of a same or similar make and technical 
specification. 
Here, DG replaced Mrs S cooker with an appliance with R  the same make as the original 
model. However, theres a disagreement between Mrs S and DG about whether the 
replacement appliance offered and supplied is of fair and reasonable quality. 
An insurance policy is intended to put a consumer back in the position they were in prior to 
their loss occurring or as close as is possible. An insurer isnt under an obligation to match 
every specification of a damaged item where that would put a customer in a better position 
than if the loss hadnt occurred. But it shouldnt put them in a worse position either. 
Here, Mrs S appliance was around 4 years old. So, she was unable to receive an identical 
replacement cooker due to advances in technology since her original appliance was 
purchased. DGs duty here is to provide the best match, or nearest equivalent, it can.Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that when DG assessed this claim it was 
reliant on information regarding the cooker specification as provided by Mrs S because the 
model number was unknown. I can see that Mrs S provided clear information based on the 
functionality of the faulty appliance. Im satisfied that this information was sufficient to enable 
DG to look at offering suitable replacement models.
From the business records Ive seen, it appears that DG incorrectly recorded the width of the 
faulty cooker, which led to issues regarding the suitability of the replacement appliance Mrs 
S initially ordered. This error occurred because of the information Mrs S provided about her 
faulty cooker. So, I cant fairly hold DG responsible for this mistake. 
It seems Mrs S would have been happy with the functionality of the first replacement cooker 
that was delivered to her home. But, due to its size, the appliance wouldnt fit into the space 
in her kitchen. So, it had to be returned.
The error caused trouble and upset to Mrs S  it was inconvenient for her to have to arrange 
to be available to take delivery of the replacement appliance and it resulted in her being 
without a replacement cooker for a longer period because the delivered appliance had to be 
returned and she then had to reorder a suitable alternative cooker. However, the error wasnt 
DGs fault and I recognise that it took appropriate remedial action by uplifting and replacing 
the unsuitable replacement.
When Mrs S recontacted DG to order an alternative appliance, I can see that she had a 
preferred model in mind. Having considered the specification of the model that Mrs S wanted 
to order it appears to be a substantial improvement when compared to specification of the 
original cooker. 
Im persuaded that, if DG had replaced Mrs S cooker with her preferred model at no 
additional charge, this would have resulted in her receiving a substantially better appliance. 
This would be contrary to the terms of her policy as it would place her in a better position 
overall. As Im satisfied that DG were correct in saying that Mrs S preferred model was an 
upgrade, it was fair and reasonable for it to explain that this appliance would be subject to an 
additional fee.
A like for like replacement is based on specification not cost. This is because the original 
cost of an appliance doesnt take into account that the market moves on rapidly and costs 
can decrease quickly as new technologies emerge and existing technologies advance. 
Therefore, providing an equivalent replacement will become cheaper over time. So, the 
specification, rather than price, of the replacement model is whats important here.
Having carefully considered the capabilities of Mrs S original cooker, Im satisfied that the 
alternative appliance that was offered by DG and ordered by Mrs S appears to be, on 
balance, a like for like replacement to the model it replaced. It has a similar number of 
burners and has a double oven. The model name is the same as is the manufacturer.
As regards the ovens functionality, Mrs S told DG her over had 8 functions. Ive listened to 
the available recordings of the telephone calls Mrs S made to DG to discuss the replacement 
of her damaged oven. Its clear that when the second replacement cooker was ordered by 
Mrs S DG informed her that the appliance had 7 functions. Ive seen evidence showing this 
wasnt correct  it only has one function  and I think it was misleading to give incorrect 
information to Mrs S.
Even though incorrect information on functionality was given to Mrs S, Im satisfied that it 
most likely wouldnt have changed the outcome in terms of the appliance DG was able to 
offer on a like for like basis. I say this because, based on the evidence Ive seen, the only other appliance Mrs S wanted to consider was an upgrade, which would have incurred an 
additional payment. She didnt want to pay an additional charge.
In the overall circumstances, while Im persuaded that DG offered the closest available like 
for like available equivalent appliance in terms of quality and specification I think distress and 
inconvenience was caused by the poor service and incorrect advice Mrs S was given. 
Its clear that Mrs S is unhappy with the cooker that was delivered and installed at her home 
in April 2022. So, Ive considered whether DG acted fairly in dealing with Mrs S complaint 
about the suitability of the cooker she ordered.
Theres evidence that Mrs S informed A that the cooker didnt have as many functions as 
she wanted. But it doesnt appear that she informed DG of this concern before using the 
appliance. It was in fact A that informed DG of Mrs S concerns regarding the functionality of 
her delivered replacement cooker. This was 8 days after the cooker had been delivered and 
installed. By this point Mrs S had already spoken to DG about concerns regarding 
discolouration of the appliance.
Mrs S said she was informed by A not to contact DG about her functionality concerns and 
told she could use the cooker while a new replacement was being sent to her. But I havent 
seen enough evidence to persuade me that this authority was given to Mrs S. And I think its 
unlikely A would have told her not to contact DG as it already knew about the issues 
regarding discolouration and would have needed to have authorised any replacement  as it 
did with the first replacement oven Mrs S ordered.
Bearing in mind that the functionality of the cooker was clearly important to Mrs S, I would 
have expected her to have checked this as soon as the appliance was delivered. I also 
would have expected her to inform DG that the cooker wasnt suitable  as shed reported to 
A. Had Mrs S contacted A at the outset to report her concerns she could have, at that stage, 
have asked it to uplift and replace the cooker for one that she deemed to be more suitable. 
In using the cooker, DG were deprived of the opportunity to arrange for the appliance to be 
uplifted in an unused condition. As it was used when DG became aware of the concerns 
regarding its functionality it couldnt return the cooker to the retailer in a saleable condition. I 
therefore cant fairly say DG acted unfairly in declining to uplift and replace the delivered 
replacement. It wouldnt be fair for me to direct DG to replace a used and functioning item.
I appreciate that Mrs S is unhappy with the discolouration on the front of her cooker. 
However, Im afraid that shell need to pursue this issue with A. I cant ask DG to resolve this 
concern because Mrs S contacted A directly to order the replacement cooker. As our 
investigator has told Mrs S, A isnt regulated and we cant hold it to account for what may or 
may not have happened.
I understand that an error led to Mrs S being charged twice for installation and removal. I can 
see that DG refunded the overpayment as soon as it was aware. But is isnt clear why the 
payment was duplicated. This wasnt an insignificant amount of money and it was unfair to 
charge Mrs S twice unnecessarily. Its an example of poor service.
As Ive already mentioned, Mrs S experienced poor service and was provided incorrect 
information about the functionality of her replacement cooker. Like our investigator I think a 
compensatory award is warranted to reflect the trouble and upset Mrs S would have been 
caused. 
In the overall circumstances, Im satisfied the £200 compensation award recommended by 
our investigator is a reasonable amount that fairly recognises the impact the errors and service issues had on Mrs S. This is in line with awards made by this service in comparable 
circumstances. 
I understand that Mrs S is seeking a higher award. But the compensation recommended by 
our investigator is what I would have told DG to pay had an award not been suggested 
already. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me 
that a higher compensation award is merited. So, Im not directing DG to pay more than the 
compensation recommended by our investigator. 
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, Im persuaded that DG should pay Mrs S £200 compensation to 
recognise the impact of the poor service it provided and incorrect information Mrs S was 
given.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
should pay Mrs S £200 in compensation to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman