DRN-4101492
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was mis-sold a points-based timeshare product and the loan used to 
finance it. The loan was provided by Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC (now Mitsubishi HC Capital 
UK Plc), which Ill refer to as Hitachi.
Mr C has been represented by a claims business, which Ill refer to as F. Where I refer to 
Mr Cs submissions and arguments, I include those made on his behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have been members of the Diamond Resorts European Collection Limited, a 
timeshare and holiday club, since around June 1999. Since then, they have bought Points 
Rights or other membership rights on five separate occasions: in June 1999; June 2011; 
May 2014; May 2016; October 2016; and June 2016. This complaint concerns the purchase 
in October 2016, which was financed by Hitachi. 
Mr and Mrs C say that in October 2016 they were on holiday in Greece. They were invited to  
and attended a presentation given by or on behalf of Diamond Resorts (Europe) Limited 
(DRL). Following that presentation, they agreed to buy 17,500 Points Rights, upgrading 
their existing membership of DRLs European Collection. These could be exchanged for 
holiday club accommodation. To pay for the Points Rights Mr C took out a £15,400 10-year 
loan with Hitachi.
In early 2019 F contacted Hitachi on behalf of Mr and Mrs C. F said its clients had been 
misled into buying the Points Rights and that Hitachi was equally liable with DRL. F made 
the following arguments:
The terms of the sale agreement were unfair in themselves.
Hitachi had not disclosed the commission paid to DRL.
Mr and Mrs C had been told there would be improved availability of accommodation, but 
they had had to compromise when making bookings.
They had been told that resorts were for the exclusive use of members, which was not 
the case.
Mr C had not been given the option of using a different lender.
They had not been given enough time to review the documents.
The presentation had been high-pressured.
DRL and Hitachi had not properly assessed whether the loan was affordable.
F contacted DRL in similar terms at around the same time. 
Hitachi contacted DRL for its comments. It said, in summary:
It told Mr and Mrs C that it was entitled to a commission. It was under no duty to tell 
them how much it was, but it would have done if they had asked. 
Mr and Mrs C had been on a marketing break in October 2016. It was a condition that 
they attend an update meeting. It does not use high-pressure sales tactics.
Mr and Mrs C had been members for 16 years, so would have known what an update 
meeting would entail.
Mr and Mrs C had said they thought the upgrade would entitle them to platinum 
membership permanently, but the upgrade was only for one year. They would have 
known however that, even after the October 2016 purchase, they did not meet the 
points threshold for platinum membership.
The purchase of extra points entitled Mr and Mrs C to gold membership, an upgrade 
from silver membership. The benefits were set out in the Diamond Resorts Disclosure 
Booklet and would have been familiar to them. They did not include enhanced 
availability of accommodation.   
Mr and Mrs C had made five reservations in 2017 and 18 in total. That did not indicate 
any difficulties with availability. 
They would have known that resorts were not used exclusively by members.
The management fees were explained in the contract and Key Information Document.     
Mr and Mrs C had 14 days in which to cancel the agreement if they were not happy with 
it.   
Hitachi declined the claim and F referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators 
considered what had happened but did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
F did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In doing so, F expanded on its arguments about annual management fees 
payable by club members. In summary, it said that the way in which they were calculated 
was unclear and that the effect of the contract was to give DRL the power to change them 
unilaterally. That meant that the contractual provisions about the fees were unfair within the 
meaning of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contract Regulations 1999 (UTCCR) and that 
Mr and Mrs C had not been provided with the information they were entitled to under The 
Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the 
Timeshare Regulations).    
I then reviewed the case and issued a provisional decision, explaining why I was not minded 
to uphold it. I noted that the complaint had been brought by Mr and Mrs C, but that only Mr C 
was a party to the loan agreement and that only he could therefore refer the matter to this 
service. I continued:
 Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
Mr C contracted with DRL for the supply of the Points Rights. DRL is also named as the 
supplier in Hitachis documentation. I am satisfied therefore that the loan was arranged by 
DRL under existing arrangements with Hitachi. Indeed, that does not appear to be in dispute. 
I must therefore consider what Mr C has said about the actions of DRL.
 Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
Mr C has included in his evidence a statement which describes his recollection of what he 
was told on each occasion he bought Points Rights  from 1999 to 2018. He says he was 
told very similar things at each presentation. 
Of the sale in June 1999: This information presentation was actually a high pressure 
sales pitch that lasted several hours. We were advised that we would have excellent 
availability of holidays but we struggled to book our desired holidays and  always had to 
compromise on dates and places to go on holiday. The  representatives advised us that 
the resorts were exclusive but non-members can book them online.
Of the sale in June 2011: In June 2011, we were on holiday and had to attend a 
mandatory update meeting. This was actually a high pressure sales pitch. We were 
advised that there would be better availability but still struggled to book our desired 
holidays and had to compromise. The representatives advised us that the resorts were 
exclusive but non-members can book them online.
Of the sale in May 2014: In May 2014, we were on holiday and had to attend a 
compulsory information meeting. This was, in fact, a high pressure sales pitch.
Of the sale in May 2016: In May 2016, we were on holiday and had to attend a 
mandatory update meeting. This was actually a high pressure sales pitch. We were 
advised that there would be better availability but still struggled to book our desired 
holidays and had to compromise to go on holiday. The representatives advised us that 
the resorts were exclusive but non-members can book them online.
Of the sale in October 2016 (the subject of this complaint: In October 2016, we were on 
holiday in Crete and had to attend a compulsory information meeting. This was, in fact, 
a high pressure sales pitch. We were advised that we would have excellent 
availability of holidays but we struggled to book our desired holidays and always had to 
compromise on dates and places to go on holiday  We were advised that the resorts 
were exclusive but you can book them online.
Of the sale in May 2018: In May 2018, we were on holiday in the Lake District and had 
to attend a mandatory update meeting. This was actually a high pressure sales pitch. 
We were advised that there would be better availability if we bought more points but 
there no improvement at all. The representatives advised us that the resorts were 
exclusive but they can be booked online by non-members.
The May 2014 purchase was of a fractional ownership timeshare, where Mr and Mrs C 
would have bought rights to use an identifiable property for a fixed week or weeks of the 
year, so the issue of availability would not have arisen. But Mr C says that on six occasions 
(four of them before the sale which is the subject of this complaint) he attended pressured 
sales meetings. And on five occasions (three of them before October 2016) he was given assurances about the availability of accommodation and was told that resorts were exclusive 
to members. 
As DRL has pointed out, however, Mr C had been a member for around 16 years before the 
October 2016 contract. He had made several purchases in that time. He must have known 
therefore that the update meeting would be likely to include a sales presentation. He would 
have been familiar too with the booking process and would have known that resorts were not 
for the exclusive use of members. Nevertheless, he went ahead with the purchase.        
For a claim in misrepresentation to succeed, a claimant must generally show not only that 
incorrect statements were made, but also that those statements induced him into the 
contract. Were Mr C to bring a claim against DRL, therefore, he would need to show that, but 
for those statements, he would not have bought the Points Rights that he did. Given what he 
already knew about the operation of the European Collection, I think it likely that he would 
have gone ahead in any event. He bought the additional Points Rights on the basis of his 
own experience of the club over many years. 
In addition, it appears that Mr C was able to book accommodation on five occasions in 2017, 
and more after that. That does not indicate any real difficulty with availability. At the very 
least, I would have expected Mr C to explain why, despite being able to make frequent 
bookings, he thought there was a lack of availability.   
The documents I have been provided with include a 3-page purchase agreement, a Key 
Information document and a Customer Compliance Statement. 
By clause 4 of the Terms and Conditions Mr C acknowledged receipt of the Key Information 
Document, Inventory Schedule, Withdrawal Form, Annual Global Reservations Directory, 
Resort Disclosure Booklet, the Governing Documents Booklet and the Rules and 
Regulations of the Club. As existing members, its likely of course that he and Mrs C were 
already familiar with these. 
DRLs Terms and Conditions also included, at clause 6, an entire agreement clause, telling 
buyers that if they were relying on verbal promises, they should be put in writing.
Section 7 said that, if any part of the contract was invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the rest of 
the contract would remain valid and enforceable. 
Part 1, section 4 of the Key Information document said that the club would be dissolved on 
31 December 2054. Part 3, section 4 provided information about termination of the contract. 
It explained that membership could be transferred in some circumstances. In exceptional 
circumstances it might be possible to relinquish membership. They included either member 
becoming 75 years old.
Section 8 explained that management fees would be levied each year and outlined what 
they would cover and how they were calculated.  
The Customer Compliance Statement comprised 22 statements about the sale and loan. Mr 
C ticked each one and signed the document. The statements included: 
a statement that the points system offered flexibility, subject to availability (4);
confirmation that Mr C understood he would have to pay a management charge based 
on the number of points held plus an annual membership fee (13); 
confirmation that he was able to meet the financial commitments under any finance 
agreement (17);a statement that he understood that DRL worked with credit providers and that it was 
entitled to receive a commission in respect of credit brokered (18);
confirmation that he had been treated courteously, had been given time to consider 
whether the product was right for him, and had not been put under pressure (20);
confirmation he had read the purchase agreement, key information and any finance 
document and was happy to proceed (21);
confirmation that he understood that the documents constituted the entire agreement 
and that no oral or written representations had been made on which he had relied (22).
The fact that Mr and Mrs C signed these statements does not of course mean that they were 
true. But if they were not true, I would have expected Mr C, in bringing this complaint, to 
explain why he signed the document and why, having done so, he did not exercise his right 
of withdrawal. 
In considering any claim for misrepresentation against DRL, Mr Cs statements about what 
he was told at the presentation need to be considered alongside what he already knew 
about club membership and what was in the documentation he signed and was provided 
with. That includes the Resort Disclosure Booklet, which DRL says set out the membership 
levels and benefits of them. 
It is relevant too that the purchase contract was clear that Mr C would not be able to rely on 
any oral representations and that, even if he felt he had been rushed into the agreement, he 
had 14 days in which to review it and withdraw if he wasnt happy. 
In the circumstances, I think it unlikely that a misrepresentation claim against DRL would 
succeed in this case. It follows that Hitachis decision not to uphold Mr Cs claim was 
reasonable.    
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
Fs reasons for saying that its client has a claim under sections 140A and 140B include:
he was pressured at the point of sale;
the Points Rights were misrepresented to him;
commission was not disclosed;
DRL was in breach of the Timeshare Regulations; and 
parts of the contract were unfair under UTCCR. 
I have explained above why I do not believe the evidence supports the first two allegations. 
F says that Mr C should have been told not just that commission was payable, but how much 
it would be. DRL says that it did not have to tell Mr C how much it would receive unless he 
asked. Whichever is correct, however, there is no suggestion that commission was important 
to Mr C. He didnt ask about it, and I have no reason to think DRL would not have told him 
how much it was receiving if he had done so. Whether or not there was an obligation to 
provide information about the level of commission, therefore, I dont believe any unfairness 
resulted.By October 2016, the relevant provisions of UTCCR had been replaced by very similar ones 
in the Consumer Rights Act 2015. Fs arguments about unfairness and the Timeshare 
Regulations concern the contract terms relating to management fees. The effect of a breach 
of both is that the individual term (in the case of the Consumer Rights Act) or the contract (in 
the case of the Timeshare Regulations) are not enforceable against the consumer. 
Mr C has not said how the alleged unfairness or breach might have affected him, other than 
by commenting that management fees have risen significantly since 1999. He hasnt, for 
example, suggested that they have been increased other than in line with the contract. In 
any event, he knew by October 2016 how management fees operated, so it is likely he relied 
primarily on his own experience of them (rather than the explanation in the Key Information 
Document) in deciding whether to proceed.     
In the circumstances, I think it unlikely that a court would make an order under section 140A 
and 140B.
Affordability
Mr C says that no assessment was made to ensure he could afford the loan. He has not 
suggested however that he has had any difficulty in making repayments. The Customer 
Compliance Statement which he signed  indicates that DRL did discuss the loan with him, 
although it was for Hitachi to assess whether it was suitable and affordable.
The fact that Mr C has been able to meet the loan repayments does not, of itself, mean that 
the loan was in fact affordable, still less that Hitachi properly assessed it. It is however an 
indication that it was and that a more detailed assessment is unlikely to have made any real 
difference overall.
In response to my provisional decision, F submitted several written statements from other 
clients. Each said they had bought a Diamond Resorts timeshare product or products, and 
each recounted a similar story about the sales process to that which Mr C had told.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The statements of other clients of F submitted in response to my provisional decision are 
described as witness statements. None of the individuals who has signed those statements 
was however a witness to Mr Cs experiences. To that extent, therefore, the statements are 
of limited assistance. 
The statements do indicate that Diamond Resorts members recall similar experiences when 
attending sales presentations. That is not, however, surprising. Mr Cs own witness 
statement says that he felt under pressure to make a purchase on six separate occasions. 
Indeed, I think it would be more surprising if sales presentations did not follow a similar 
pattern. 
Fs further submissions did not address, or seek to address, most of the points I made in my 
provisional decision. For example:
I suggested that Mr Cs decision to buy Points Rights in October 2016 was likely to have 
been based on his experience as a club member. 
The evidence indicated that he and Mrs C had been able to book holidays, contrary to 
what F had said. Mr and Mrs C had signed a statement saying that they had not relied on anything which 
was not included in the written contract.
They had also signed a statement saying they had not been put under pressure to buy.
They had not explained how any alleged unfairness in the contractual terms had 
affected them.
For obvious reasons, other clients of F are not in a position to provide any evidence about 
these matters.       
In conclusion, the further evidence which F has submitted has not led me to change my 
findings from those set out in my provisional decision.   
My final decision 
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc to 
do anything further to resolve Mr Cs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman