DRN-3357320
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him a packaged bank account,
called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). Bank of Scotland charged Mr M a
monthly fee for the URCA and provided several potential benefits in return. 
Mr M thinks that Bank of Scotland should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest. 
What happened
Bank of Scotland has looked at its records for Mr M and has told us that it sold him the
URCA in January 2008 and he kept for many years. I think Bank of Scotlands
records about this are probably reliable, and I have taken this account history to be correct.
I previously sent Mr M and Bank of Scotland a provisional decision on this complaint. In that 
provisional decision, I set out the background and circumstances of the complaint and I 
explained that I didnt think Bank of Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to Mr M. I invited both 
parties to send me any further comments they wanted to make before I made a final 
decision. The period of time I allowed for this has now passed. Bank of Scotland has told us 
it has nothing further to say and Mr M hasnt replied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do in Mr Ms case. Ive looked into
everything that Mr M and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint, and
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ive explained why below. But first, I would like to point out that 
because there is nothing new for me to consider since I sent both parties my provisional 
decision, much of what follows is very similar indeed to what I said previously.
Mr M has been very clear about the reason for his complaint. Hes told us that he visited one
of Bank of Scotlands branches and said he was looking for a first-time buyer mortgage, and
Bank of Scotland told him that in order to increase (his) credit score and make it more likely
to be accepted at a lower mortgage rate (he) would need to upgrade (his) current account to
an URCA. He now believes this was wrong and that buying an URCA would not influence his
credit score or allow him to get a lower interest rate on a mortgage.
Bank of Scotland has agreed that it sold the URCA to Mr M during a meeting at one of its
branches, but it has told us that it did so fairly, without misleading him.
Its now over a dozen years since the meeting and I cant tell for certain what Bank of 
Scotland said, or didnt say, to Mr M during it. Instead, I have assessed what is most likely to 
have occurred by looking at all the evidence that is available and the context of what 
happened.
Firstly, I would like to confirm that Mr Ms current belief about credit scores is almost
definitely correct. The type of current account someone holds gives little indication of her or
his credit worthiness and buying an URCA was very unlikely to improve Mr Ms credit score.
However, some banks apply lower interest rates to mortgages for their customers with
packaged accounts than for their customers with fee-free accounts. Banks often call these
arrangements preferential interest rates. They are allowed to make these arrangements but 
should explain them clearly and fairly to their customers.
Bank of Scotland has told us that in 2008 some of its mortgages had conditions that required
customers to have a fee-free current account with minimum monthly credits of £1,000, or an 
URCA. Where such a condition existed and the customer had a fee-free current account, not 
an URCA, but failed to meet the minimum monthly credit, it would apply a higher interest 
rate. So, in effect, Bank of Scotland was offering preferential interest rates on some 
mortgages to some of its customers with URCAs.
I do not know what type of mortgage, if any, Mr M went on to take through Bank of Scotland,
but as it only seems to have explained relevant and genuine conditions about these
preferential rates to him during the meeting, I think it behaved reasonably.
I also fully accept that Bank of Scotland may have discussed credit scores with Mr M during 
the meeting. They would be important factors in determining if he could get any type of 
mortgage, irrespective of the type of current account he held. So, they would have been a 
reasonable topic for Bank of Scotland to raise. It may also have explained that managing a 
current account well (for example, by staying in credit or within overdraft limits) could 
improve a credit score. But, this is true, and in the context, it would have been a fair thing for 
Bank of Scotland to say. 
However, I doubt that Bank of Scotland told Mr M that buying the URCA alone would 
improve his credit score as this would have contradicted its own lending criteria for 
mortgages and would have been out-of-line with general banking practice at the
time.
Although Mr M has been very specific about his reason for complaining and in recent
correspondence has told us that his complaint is about the point of sale of the product, not
the benefits that were part of the account, in fairness to him I have checked to see if Bank of
Scotland may have mis-sold him the URCA in any other way.
In 2008, Bank of Scotland, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank
accounts (including URCAs) in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an
information-only (or non-advised) basis. Or, it could give personal advice and make 
recommendations as an advised (or recommended) sale. Whichever approach Bank of 
Scotland used for Mr M, I would have expected it to tell him about the URCAs costs and 
benefits clearly and fairly and give him a choice. And in an advised sale, I would also have 
expected it to check his circumstances to see if he had a potential need for the benefits 
which the URCA could provide.
In 2008, Bank of Scotlands usual practice was to sell URCAs on an information-only basis
and I havent seen sufficiently convincing evidence for me to think it changed its procedures
for Mr M. So, I have considered this case to be about a non-advised sale.
There is no dispute that Bank of Scotland told Mr M about the monthly fees for the URCA.
The benefits included insurance for travel and mobile phones and use of a car breakdown
service. Bank of Scotlands records show the Mr M actively used some of these benefits. For
example, he called out the car breakdown service several times. So, Im satisfied that Bank
of Scotland told him about them.Turning to the question of choice, in 2008 Bank of Scotland provided many of its customers
with fee-free accounts, as did many other UK banks. Such accounts are still widely available
in the UK today. They have never been withdrawn. So, it seems highly likely to me that Bank
of Scotland allowed Mr M the option to take such an account during the meeting. I doubt it
denied him a choice.
Mr M has also told us that he tried to cancel the URCA but Bank of Scotland wouldnt let
him. In a recent email to us, he said that one week after opening the URCA he  tried to
cancel (it)... as (he) did not believe it would save the money outlined...(but he).... was forced
into keeping it by a member of staff in (his) local branch.
Mr M hasnt told us a great deal about how he thinks Bank of Scotland forced him to keep
the URCA. However, as I have already mentioned, Im satisfied that Bank of Scotland gave
him a choice during the meeting and told him that  fee-free accounts were available. I
also understand that shortly after the meeting Bank of Scotland sent Mr M a welcome pack
for the URCA which contained the following sentence (or something very similar) in the
introduction:
At Bank of Scotland, we know that peoples personal circumstances change, which is
why we offer a range of bank accounts to suit all kinds of needs. So, if at any stage
you would like to review your options, just let us know. Visit any branch, call (phone
number) or go to (website).
I doubt that Bank of Scotland forced Mr M to keep the URCA against his wishes.
So, in summary, I dont think that Bank of Scotland mis-sold the URCA to Mr M, or
forced hm to keep it. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint
about Bank of Scotland plc. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman