DRN-3471555
The complaint
Miss D complains about her insurer, One Insurance Limited (One). Her complaint is about 
how they dealt with a claim under her accidental damage insurance policy. 
This decision covers Miss Ds claim under her accidental damage insurance policy. It doesnt 
cover Miss Ds separate home insurance policy with another insurer (C). Miss D initially 
made her claim to C, who declined it as their policy didnt cover accidental damage. At that 
point, Miss D approached One to consider her claim.
References to One include their agents who handle claims.
What happened
In August 2021 a cupboard in Miss Ds kitchen fell off the wall, causing a second cupboard 
to also fall, damaging a microwave underneath. An extractor fan was also damaged and fell 
off the wall. There was also damage to the contents of the cupboards, a worktop and a tile 
on the floor. After C declined the claim made initially to them, Miss D contacted One, as she 
had an accidental damage policy with them. One arranged for an surveyor (S) to inspect the 
damage.
S's report found no evidence of wear and tear with the cupboards and couldnt fully ascertain 
why theyd fallen. The report went on to say the cupboards fell due to potential workmanship 
issues when they were installed, as they should have been able to hold the weight of the 
items within them prior to their fall. Based on this, the report concluded the damage was 
caused by a maintenance issue, not accidental damage. Based on Ss report, One declined 
Miss Ds claim. Unhappy at the decline, Miss D complained to One.
One upheld her complaint in part. In their final response, they acknowledged delays in 
handling her claim, for which they awarded £100 in compensation. But they maintained their 
decline of her claim, based on the policy exclusion for accidental damage claims relating to 
maintenance issues and faulty workmanship.
Miss D then complained to this service, unhappy at what had happened. She disputed Ones 
view that the cupboards hadnt been installed correctly, saying they had. She said the 
experience had caused her undue stress and anxiety and shed had to store salvaged items 
from the cupboards in her lounge due to lack of space, as well as having to borrow items 
from family and friends. She wanted One to accept her claim.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding One hadnt acted fairly. She thought the 
incident would fall under Miss Ds policy, as the damage was unexpected, unintended and 
caused by something sudden and not deliberate. She thought One hadnt provided enough 
evidence to support their decline of the claim under the policy exclusion theyd relied on. She 
thought One should put things right by paying Miss Ds claim (and paying interest on the 
claim settlement, if Miss D had already replaced items damaged in the incident). 
One disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said Ss report said the cupboards fell due to potential workmanship issues 
when installed, as they should have been able to hold the weight of the items contained 
within them. One also said Ss report indicated Miss D was in the process of renovating her 
kitchen and hadnt purchased the upgraded cupboards damaged in the incident. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether One have acted fairly towards Miss D.
In considering Miss Ds complaint, the main issue is whether One fairly applied the policy 
exclusion for maintenance and poor workmanship. Within this, there are two key questions 
to consider. First, whether the events in the case constitute accidental damage under the 
terms and conditions of the policy. And, second, whether One have fairly applied the policy 
exclusions to decline the claim.
On the first question, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. They state:
When we use the term accidental damage we mean damage that is unexpected 
and unintended caused by something sudden and which is not deliberate.
From what Ive seen about the incident, when the cupboards fell from the kitchen wall and 
caused damage, I think its clear the incident fits the definition of accidental damage. So Ive 
concluded the damage would fall to be considered under the policy.
However, while One accepted this, theyve relied on a policy exclusion to decline the claim. 
That decline, as set out in their final response, is based on the policy exclusion for accidental 
damage relating to maintenance and faulty workmanship. Their final response referred to the 
following policy exclusion:
Structural alteration, extension, restoration, dismantling, renovation, repair, 
maintenance, redecoration
Faulty design or workmanship, defective design or the use of faulty materials
Miss D says the cupboards were installed correctly. One refer to the findings in Ss report to 
support their use of the exclusion to decline the claim. Given the latter, Ive considered Ss 
report carefully. The key parts of the report state:
Our building surveyor can confirm no evidence of wear and tear however upon our 
inspection we could not fully ascertain as to why the why the kitchen units had fallen 
and we believe this was due to potential workmanship issues when the units were 
installed as cupboards should be able to hold the weight of the items situated within 
the cupboards prior to them falling.
The report also goes on to state we recommend repudiation [of the claim] in its entirety 
due to maintenance The report also states the peril (the cupboards falling down) isnt 
consistent with a gradual operating cause (something that happens gradually over time). 
Taking all these factors into account, Im not persuaded it was fair or reasonable for One to 
use the exclusion to decline Miss Ds claim. Ive concluded this for several reasons. First, 
where an insurer uses an exclusion clause to decline a claim, the onus is on them to show 
the exclusion applies (rather than the consumer to show an insured event or peril has 
occurred  which Ive concluded was the case). I dont think Ss report, together with the other information and evidence available, provides clear evidence to support the exclusion. 
The key parts of the report arent persuasive, for example references to could not fully 
ascertain and potential [workmanship issues]. The report also rules out wear and tear and 
gradual operating causes as issues, which I dont think point to a maintenance issue.
Having concluded One acted unfairly in applying the exclusion to decline the claim, Ive 
considered what I think they should do to put things right. Given the length of time since the 
incident, I think One should settle Miss Ds claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy, without relying on the exclusion. Ive also considered Ones second 
point when disagreeing with our investigators view. I think settling the claim will involve 
considering the evidence provided by Miss D to support the losses shes incurred from the 
incident, as well as what Ss report says about repairing the damage and replacing damaged 
items. Given the elapse of time, I also think One should pay interest (at 8% simple) on any 
replacement items already purchased by Miss D which One reimburse when settling the 
claim (from the date of purchase to the date One settles the claim).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Miss Ds complaint. I require 
One Insurance plc to:
Settle Miss Ds claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
(without relying on the exclusion for maintenance and faulty workmanship). 
Pay interest (at 8% simple) on any replacement items already purchased by Miss D 
which One reimburse when settling the claim (from the date of purchase to the date 
One settles the claim).
If One Insurance plc consider theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, they should tell Miss D how much theyve taken off. They should also 
give Miss D a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman