DRN-2254484
The complaint
Ms M complains makes a number of complaints about Lloyds Bank PLC following it sending 
her new account cards and PINs.
What happened
Ms M says she was sent a new account card in June 2020 that didnt work. She then 
experienced numerous problems with new account cards that were sent to her and PINs 
that didnt work. In summary it took about a month for the problems to be sorted out and Ms 
M says she spent a significant amount of time trying to sort matters out and in attending a 
Lloyds branch. She says she was caused stress and health problems as a result of what 
took place and says the compensation, she has been offered by Lloyds, doesnt go far 
enough.
Lloyds accept making a number of mistakes and says its staff in trying to help Ms M caused 
further problems by cancelling cards and PINs. Its apologised and paid £150 compensation.
Ms M brought her complaint to us and our investigator agreed that Lloyds had not dealt fairly 
with her but had apologised and paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. The 
investigator thought Ms M had access to money in a different account.
Ms M doesnt accept that view and says the compensation offer doesnt go far enough or 
reflect the health and stress issues that were caused by Lloyds actions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Lloyds has paid a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation. I realise Ms M will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no dispute here that Lloyds made a number of mistakes in dealing with what ought 
to have been a straightforward issue of sending Ms M a new account card and working PIN. 
I accept Ms M spent some time trying to sort matters out and that she would have been 
concerned about access to her money and being able to use an account card at these 
difficult times. I also accept Ms M attended a Lloyds branch and would have been frustrated 
and caused stress as a result of what took place. But Im satisfied Lloyds has fairly 
apologised for what took place and that Ms M now has working account cards.
The key issue I have to decide, is the level of compensation Lloyds has paid fair and 
reasonable. Im satisfied that £150 compensation is fair and reasonable and reflects what 
took place here. I dont think Ms M suffered any direct financial loss and can see that she 
was able to continue to make payments out of her account. I also think that Ms M had 
access to money at this time and had a different account that she used. So overall, whilst I 
appreciate the distress and inconvenience Ms M was caused, I think the compensation paid 
by Lloyds takes that fairly into account and so I cant order it to pay any further 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman