DRN-3444771
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lowell Financial Ltd reported a default on his credit file when it shouldnt 
have.
Mr P wants Lowell to remove the default and be held accountable for its actions.
What happened
In September 2021, Lowell Portfolio I Limited bought an account in Mr Ps name and 
appointed Lowell Financial Ltd to manage it on its behalf. For ease, I will refer to Lowell 
Financial Ltd as Lowell and Lowell Portfolio I Ltd as Lowell Portfolio in my decision. 
The account was sold to Lowell Portfolio by a business I will refer to as P. P had already 
reported a default against Mr P.
Lowell wrote to Mr P using the address that P had provided but didnt hear back. In 
November 2021, Mr P contacted Lowell using a different email address to the one that P had 
provided. Lowell asked Mr P for some personal details to try and verify him. Mr P wasnt 
willing to share these with Lowell as he was concerned about the possibility of fraud.
After Mr P complained, Lowell sent a final response. It explained why it couldnt share 
information with him via email but that it could do so by post as it matched the address that P 
gave Lowell.
Mr P is unhappy that the investigator didnt recommend upholding his complaint. Mr P says 
Lowell hasnt provided evidence that it wrote to him and that if it had, he wouldve cleared 
things up much more quickly.
Mr P thinks it was right for him not to give Lowell his date of birth as he had no knowledge of 
them. Mr P is unhappy that despite him telling the credit reference agencies that the debt 
wasnt his, Lowell kept repeating that the information was correct. Mr P is concerned that P 
could promptly confirm to this service that the debt didnt belong to him when Lowell claims it 
made repeated attempts to find this out.
Mr P told us that as of April 2022, the default still appeared on his credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me. 
I appreciate that Mr P was unhappy to see a default in the name of a business he knew 
nothing about. To reach my decision, I have considered whether it was reasonable of Lowell 
to report the default based on the information it held at the time. And whether Lowell dealt 
with Mr Ps concerns fairly once he raised them.
Im satisfied that Lowell Portfolio bought the debt from P in 2021. Although Mr P might not 
recall seeing the notice of assignment, Lowell has given us evidence that it sent the notice to 
him using the address that P had provided. I consider this was enough to show that Lowell 
Portfolio owned the debt. And that it was reasonable for Lowell Portfolio to appoint Lowell to 
collect the debt on its behalf and for Lowell to report the existing default. 
Turning to the question of how Lowell responded when Mr P raised his concerns, again, I 
cant say that Lowell made a mistake. Although Mr P told Lowell the debt had nothing to do 
with him, he did so using a different email address to the one P had provided. I can see why 
Lowell wanted to verify Mr Ps identity first. 
I can also understand Mr Ps reluctance to share his details with Lowell, particularly when we 
are always being warned about scams. But without verifying Mr P first, Lowell felt it couldnt 
continue discussing the account by email. This also explains why Lowell told the credit 
reference agencies that it couldnt share information with Mr P by email without completing 
security checks with him. 
After Mr P raised a formal complaint, Lowell says it queried the debt with P. This is what I 
wouldve expected from Lowell. As P appears to have confirmed the debt belonged to Mr P, I 
cant say that Lowell was wrong not to uphold his complaint at this point. Or that Lowell 
shouldve taken steps to remove the default at this point.
Lowell sent a final response to Mr P using the address provided by P. This meant it could 
share details of the debt. I appreciate this was frustrating for Mr P as he points out he 
couldve sorted things out if hed had this information sooner. But for the all the reasons Ive 
outlined above, I dont find this was Lowells fault. 
As Mr P gave this service evidence to support what he was saying about not owing any debt 
to P, the investigator shared this with P. I think this probably explains why this service was 
able to promptly resolve the issue with P.
After P confirmed to this service that Mr P didnt owe the debt, Lowell removed the default 
and confirmed this in writing to Mr P at the end of April 2022. As Ive not found that Lowell 
acted unreasonably towards Mr P, I dont require it to take any further action to resolve his 
complaint. I appreciate that this is likely to disappoint Mr P who is understandably frustrated 
with the whole situation. 
The investigator told Mr P that he can always complain to P. I leave it with Mr P to decide 
whether to take this step if he hasnt already done so.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman