DRN-4193658
The complaint
Ms W complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to provide her with sufficient 
information, or suitable advice, about making additional contributions to her pension savings 
in late 1993.
What happened
The advice that Ms W received in 1993 was provided by Commercial Union. That firm now 
forms part of Aviva, so it is Aviva that is responsible for dealing with this complaint. For ease, 
in this decision, I will simply refer to the business as Aviva throughout. And Ms W has been 
assisted in making her complaint by a claims management company. But, again for ease, in 
this decision I will largely refer to all communication on the complaint as being from, and to, 
Ms W herself.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2023. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, 
I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
In 1993 Ms W was aged 36 and employed as a teacher. She had been a member of 
her occupational pension scheme (OPS) for around 13 years. She, along with her 
husband, met with an advisor employed by Aviva to discuss a number of financial 
matters.
The advisor recommended that Ms W should take out a pension policy in order that 
she could make free-standing additional voluntary contributions (FSAVCs) to 
increase her savings for retirement. Ms W accepted the advice and agreed to make 
net monthly contributions of £50.
The advisor that met with Ms W was what was known as a tied advisor. That meant 
they could only recommend products offered by Aviva. They couldnt actively 
recommend any other products from any other product providers including the 
in-house options (AVCs or added years) offered by the OPS.
However, a tied adviser was required to follow rules set in 1988 by the regulator at 
that time - LAUTRO (the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation). 
The LAUTRO Code said advisers should maintain high standards of integrity and fair 
dealing, exercise due skill, care and diligence in providing any services, and 
generally take proper account of the interests of investors. It added that businesses 
should:
Have regard to the consumer's financial position generally and to any rights 
they may have under an occupational scheme, and
Give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with the 
representative in question.
So, this means that tied advisers should have known that in-house AVC options 
would most likely be available to consumers like Ms W. And in addition to highlighting 
the benefits of the FSAVC plan, a tied advisor needed to mention the generic 
benefits of the in-house options, including that:
Money purchase in house AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than 
the FSAVCs
Added years might be available under a defined benefit OPS
The consumers employer might match or top-up the amount the consumer 
paid into either in-house option.
Given the time that has passed since the advice was given to Ms W it isnt entirely 
surprising that the copies of the paperwork that Aviva holds are of very poor quality. 
That does present some challenges in assessing the discussions that took place with 
Ms W at the time. But the section relating to her pension provision is just readable, 
and says the following;
I have explained to Mr and Mrs [W] that the Teachers scheme does have an 
in house AVC facility with the Prudential but they wish to go ahead with 
FSAVC although the charges are higher than the in-house scheme
There is obviously no recording or transcript of the discussion that took place 
between Ms W and Aviva, so I have no way of knowing for certain what was said. But 
I am persuaded that the text I have reproduced above does suggest some discussion 
took place between Ms W and Aviva about the alternative contribution options 
offered by the OPS. I think it likely that Ms W would have challenged the comments 
noted above, in a document that she signed, if no such discussion had occurred.
 
The comments that Aviva recorded reflected a discussion about one of the most 
fundamental differences between an AVC and FSAVC option  namely that the 
charges payable on an AVC were likely to be lower. And in fact Aviva went even 
further than that, by telling Ms W that the FSAVC charges would [my emphasis] be 
higher. So I think Ms W would have been left in little doubt that, in terms of the 
charges she would need to pay, taking the FSAVC would be more expensive. That 
comparison is something that the regulator would have suggested was the most 
important consideration when weighing up the choice between an AVC and FSAVC 
option.
There is little evidence that the other two aspects mentioned by the regulator were 
discussed with Ms W. That doesnt of course mean no discussion about them took 
place, but it does mean I need to give further consideration to those points.
I havent seen anything to make me think that Ms W would have been attracted to 
purchasing added years benefits instead. The amount that she was intending to pay 
into the FSAVC plan was relatively modest compared to her salary. And, at that time, 
added years would likely have looked expensive compared to the projected returns 
and benefits of the FSAVC.
And my understanding is that Ms Ws employer wouldnt have provided her with any 
additional benefits, such as matching her contributions, had she taken the AVC 
option. So Im not persuaded that any failures by Aviva in these aspects would have 
caused Ms W to lose out.
As I have said earlier, the advisor from Aviva wasnt able to recommend to Ms W that 
she should start paying AVCs rather than FSAVCs. So, beyond making Ms W aware of the in house alternative and drawing attention to the key differences, such as the 
charges in the FSAVC policy being higher, he didnt need to justify to Ms W why the 
FSAVC plan might be more suitable than the alternative AVC option. But the advisor 
did need to ensure that the FSAVC product itself was suitable for Ms Ws needs.
It appears that Ms W wanted to increase her retirement savings, and could afford the 
£50 she had agreed to pay each month into the FSAVC. And it seems that the 
investment approach that was recommended, placing 50% of her savings into a 
with-profits fund, and 50% into a balanced investment fund would be suitable for her 
attitude to risk. So it seems to me that the FSAVC recommendation should be 
considered to be suitable for Ms Ws circumstances at that time.
I appreciate that Ms W says that Aviva should have documented its reasons why it 
thought the FSAVC plan would have been more beneficial to her than the AVC 
option. But I dont agree. Aviva simply needed to ensure that it had met its regulatory 
obligations in telling Ms W, in the terms set out above, about the AVC option, and 
that a FSAVC arrangement would allow her to meet her needs of making additional 
provision for her retirement. I think that both those requirements were met, and so 
I dont currently think the complaint should be upheld.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Aviva hasnt provided us with anything further. Ms W has said that she 
doesnt agree with my provisional findings and has provided some additional comments. 
Although I am only summarising here what Ms W has said, I want to reassure her that I have 
read, and carefully considered, her entire response.
Ms W says that the information in the suitability report regarding the charges difference is at 
best vague. She says it would mean little to a layman investor who was receiving financial 
advice from an expert financial adviser who was apparently exercising due skill, care and 
diligence in providing their services whilst not forgetting to take proper account of her 
interests. The report provided no comparison of how much the charges difference was in 
real terms.
Ms W asks why anyone would choose to go ahead with a product that has higher charges. 
She says there must have been some further justification provided or her decision would 
make no sense. That justification should have been recorded in the report. She says that if 
she had been given accurate, or more, information, then based on her career path and her 
knowledge of financial products, she would have undoubtedly preferred the alternative 
option that gave her better value for money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, in deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the 
law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully 
considered all the submissions that have been made by Ms W and by Aviva. Where the 
evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
And I repeat my reflections on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to regulate 
or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a 
business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to 
put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would 
have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Ive thought carefully about the additional comments that Ms W has made in response to my 
provisional decision. Im sorry to tell her that they havent caused me to change my mind on 
the outcome of her complaint. But I would like to provide some further explanation about the 
matters she has raised.
As I said in my provisional decision, the advisor that Ms W dealt with was tied. So that meant 
he couldnt advise her on the benefits of any products that werent offered by Aviva. And that 
restriction would also extend to not providing Ms W with specific information about those 
other products, such as the AVC arrangement offered by her employer. So it would not be 
possible, in the advice report that was given to Ms W, to provide her with specific 
comparisons of the cost differences between the FSAVC and AVC arrangements.
A tied advisor was only required to give information to Ms W about the AVC plan in generic 
terms. And as I said earlier, it would be reasonable to expect that information to make 
particular reference to the difference in charges. There is no recording of the meeting that 
took place between Ms W and the advisor  and given the time that has passed it would 
seem, quite understandably, that she cannot be sure what exactly was said. She hasnt 
provided any specific testimony, either in her original complaint or in her response to my 
provisional decision, that would give me confidence that she recalled in detail those 
discussions.
So I am left to rely on the documentary evidence from the time. That does show that Aviva 
made Ms W aware that the charges on the FSAVC plan would be higher than on a 
comparative AVC plan. So Im satisfied that it is most likely Aviva met its regulatory 
obligations in that regard.
It isnt appropriate for me to second guess why Ms W might have chosen the FSAVC option 
over the AVC plan. But it would be unreasonable to suggest that there might be few, if any, 
reasons why that choice might be made. For some consumers a FSAVC plan might be more 
attractive than the AVC plan offered by their employer despite any differences in costs. 
Given that I have found Aviva most likely made Ms W aware of that cost difference, I must 
conclude that there were reasons why she agreed to Avivas recommendation. I havent 
seen anything that makes me think that agreement was given on the basis of false, or 
misleading, information about the FSAVC plan.
So in summary, I think the information Aviva gave to Ms W about the difference in the likely 
charges was clear, and sufficient to meet its regulatory obligations. And I dont think it was 
necessary for Aviva to compare the two plans in specific terms, or justify whether it thought a 
FSAVC plan would be more suitable. The FSAVC plan met Ms Ws objectives to make 
additional provision for her retirement. So I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 Paul Reilly
Ombudsman