DRN-2535540
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy Mr C took out in March 2000. 
Barclays told us that the PPI wouldve been added to his account during a phone call that 
took place shortly after Mr C took out his credit card. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. 
Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Barclays says it sold Mr C PPI during a phone call. But it told us it doesnt have a call 
recording or any sales scripts. 
Barclays says, amongst other things, that its advisor wouldnt have added the policy to 
Mr Cs account without his express consent and Mr C wouldve been able to decline it if he 
hadnt wanted PPI. 
Barclays also said that Mr C would have seen the regular PPI payments on his statements 
and, had PPI been added without his knowledge or consent, Mr C was able to contact 
Barclaycard to query and potentially cancel the cover immediately.
The postal application Mr C completed when he opened his Barclaycard account gave him 
an option to tick for PPI if he wanted to take it out. 
On Mr Cs completed Barclaycard application he left this tick box blank. 
Mr C told us that PPI wasnt something he wanted at the time. He said he wasnt in a good 
financial situation and paying for PPI wouldve exacerbated his debt worries.
I dont know what was discussed during the phone call that took place when PPI was sold to 
Mr C. 
And I cant see how Mr C consented to Barclays adding PPI to his Barclaycard account. 
Ive taken into account Barclays comments in response to the adjudicators view. 
I think that the purpose of the phone call may well have been solely to discuss PPI as 
Barclays says. But this make no difference to my decision that Mr C was mis-sold PPI. 
Mr C had already told Barclays that he didnt want PPI. I dont feel I've seen enough 
information to show that Barclays gave Mr C a fair choice about taking PPI  or that he 
agreed to have it. 
So, I still think its fair to uphold the complaint. 
Putting things right
Barclays should put Mr C in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
The card account is closed and the PPI has been cancelled already so: 
A. Barclays should find out how much Mr C would have owed when his credit card 
account was closed if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr C owed when the 
account closed and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. Barclays should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr C wouldve 
owed when the account closed from when it closed until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when Barclays works out what Mr C would have owed each month without PPI    
Mr C paid more than enough to clear his balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mr C wouldve owed Barclays something on his credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year. 
D. Barclays should tell Mr C what its done to work out A, B and C. 
E Barclays can deduct from the redress shown above any commission amount relating 
to this PPI sale that it has already repaid to Mr C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman