DRN-4065121
The complaint
Mr K complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
mismanaged his pension fund, causing him a loss. 
What happened
Mr K was a member of his former employers group personal pension with Royal London. 
And in 2022, upon reaching his selected retirement age, 100% of Mr Ks pension 
automatically switched to the RLP Annuity Fund. Later that year, Mr K complained to      
Royal London that his pension had suffered a huge loss when the Lifestyle Strategy it 
followed shouldnt allow this so close to his retirement age. Mr K said he chose this to 
minimise risk and avoid losses in the knowledge he wont make large gains and that he paid 
Royal London to manage his fund. He asked it to compensate him in light of its poor 
management of this. 
In response, Royal London said, in summary, that when Mr Ks scheme was first set up the 
financial adviser for this selected a portfolio that included a lifestyle strategy. It said this 
meant Mr Ks funds were automatically switched into the RLP Annuity Fund as per the terms 
and conditions of the Lifestyle Strategy to move these into lower risk assets as he 
approached retirement. And that the majority of the RLP Annuity Fund is invested in 
corporate bonds and gilts, known as fixed interest stock. Royal London said that while it 
does all it can to ensure the highest returns based on the investment strategy, values can 
still go up and down. And that lower risk investments, including fixed interest stock, have 
recently seen significant drops due to increased volatility based on social, economic and 
political events. It said that the only way it could change the strategy was as a result of an 
instruction from Mr K or his financial adviser.  
Unhappy with this, Mr K brought his complaint to our Service. He added, in summary, that 
hes only a few years from retirement and would like his funds to be in the lowest risk 
investments. He said that while the Lifestyle Strategy is described as being for people 
approaching retirement, the fund his pension has been switched into isnt low risk based on 
the 13% drop in value over 12 months. He said Royal London made this switch without him 
requesting it. And that while Royal London has since suggested he could move his funds, 
this was only after the loss had already happened. 
One of our Investigators looked into it and said Royal London had acted in line with the 
Lifestyle Strategy that applied to Mr Ks pension plan and made it clear to him that this 
involved making automatic changes to his funds as he reached retirement age. She said that 
fixed interest investments that the RLP Annuity Fund is largely invested in are generally 
considered low risk, but are still subject to market conditions and arent guaranteed. So she 
didnt think Royal London had done anything wrong. 
Mr K didnt agree. He added that Royal London ought to have managed the market 
conditions, given its a large organisation that he pays hundreds of pounds a year to. And 
that other funds it provided at the time grew, while his declined. He said Royal London 
neglected to tell him that his low risk managed fund was more at risk than others and 
continued to assure him that it was right for his time of life and low risk. 
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint, for largely the same reasons as our 
Investigator. Ill explain why. 
It isnt in dispute that a Lifestyle Strategy was in place for Mr Ks pension with Royal London. 
Such strategies usually seek to manage investment risks as someones retirement age 
approaches, by gradually moving investments out of equity type investments and into fixed 
investments, such as gilts and bonds. This is because this type of investment usually 
exhibits lower volatility than equity assets over the long term. 
I havent seen anything to suggest Royal London provided Mr K with advice on his pension 
and investments. This means it was responsible for providing Mr K with accurate information 
and ensuring his plan followed the selected Lifestyle Strategy, while he was responsible for 
how his funds were invested, ensuring these were suitable and monitoring performance. 
Royal Londons said Mr K would have been provided with a welcome pack when he enrolled 
in his pension. And I think its likely this explained that it would automatically make certain 
fund changes as he approached retirement as part of the Lifestyle Strategy. This means 
Royal London didnt need to receive a specific request from Mr K to make changes at those 
times. And I think Royal London clearly reminded Mr K of this in correspondence it made 
available to him, in advance of reaching his selected retirement age. 
For example, Royal London sent Mr K a breakdown of his plan details when it wrote to him 
on 2 July 2020, which clearly said that the Lifestyle Strategy is based on his chosen 
retirement date, investment switches are made automatically and at that date 100% of his 
pension would be invested in the RLP Annuity Fund. The Lifestyle Strategy factsheet 
available to Mr K online also said Royal London would move 100% of his plan into this fund 
on his retirement date, in the way it did. And I cant see anything to suggest Mr K provided 
Royal London with any alternative investment instructions. So I think Royal London correctly 
followed the Lifestyle Strategy that it clearly set out in Mr Ks case.
Its understandable Mr Ks disappointed his plan value dropped by 12%, when the RLP 
Annuity Fund is largely made up of fixed interest investments that are usually considered to 
be lower risk. But I think its important to bear in mind that lifestyle strategies dont eliminate 
risk. In certain situations fixed interest investments can sharply fall in value and this cant 
always be anticipated. This was unfortunately the case here, as I can see that Mr Ks fund 
value fell sharply in September and October 2022 and Royal Londons explained this was a 
result of the market conditions. 
While I can see Royal London said in documentation that the Lifestyle Strategy was 
targeting a secure income and aimed to deliver a level of growth consistent with the level of 
risk Mr K was taking, I cant see that it assured him this was right for him at his time of life. 
Instead, I think Royal London made Mr K reasonably aware of the risks involved, as I can 
see it regularly explained in the documentation it sent him, including statements, that 
investment returns are never guaranteed, the value can go up and down and that he could 
get back less than what he paid into his plan. And I can see that Royal London also regularly 
reminded Mr K to check he was happy with his investments and that these were suitable for 
him, recommending he seek advice on this.In summary, while what happened was unfortunate timing for Mr K given his upcoming 
retirement, evidence shows Royal London correctly followed the Lifestyle Strategy set out. 
Royal London wasnt responsible for ensuring Mr Ks funds were appropriate for him. And     
I havent seen anything to suggest it mismanaged these  the underlying funds appear to 
have achieved similar returns to the benchmarks they track, indicating they performed in line 
with comparable funds.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint against 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman