DRN-2878793
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society will not refund the money he paid for a car. 
He says the seller was fraudulent and has lost out as a result.
Background
Mr K has explained he saw an advertisement for a second-hand car for sale on an online 
auction website. The advertisement described the car as first registered in 1996, 
generallyin great all round condition and the seller was looking for £2,500 for it. Mr K has 
said he also checked online to ensure the car had a valid MOT, which it did.
Mr K spoke to the seller over the phone to discuss the car in further detail and agreed on a 
price of £2,400. Due to the Covid pandemic, Mr K was unable to collect the car in person, so 
delivery to his home was arranged.
When Mr K started the vehicle, he says the car made a loud clattering noise. He drove the 
car around his cul de sac, to see if this resolved the issue but the noise worsened. Mr K 
contacted the seller who suggested the car needed to warm up. Mr K contacted a mechanic 
who suggested Mr K didnt drive the car any further. On inspection of the engine, the 
mechanic deemed it to be beyond economic repair. Mr K tried to resolve the matter with the 
seller directly but hasnt been able to contact him since. As a result, in an attempt to recover 
some funds, Mr K sold the car for scrap at a value of £400.
Mr K raised a fraud claim with Nationwide who responded advising it was unable to refund 
Mr K, but that it would contact the beneficiary bank provider and seek to update Mr K in 20 
working days. Mr K contacted Nationwide after the 20 days had passed and was advised a 
text had been sent to him, which he hadnt received. Mr K was told Nationwide considered 
the matter was a civil dispute and that as a result, it wouldnt be contacting the beneficiary 
bank. Upon reviewing Mr Ks complaint, Nationwide paid £50 compensation to Mr K for 
incorrectly advising him that it would be contacting the beneficiary bank but maintained that 
this was a civil matter and wouldnt be deemed as fraudulent.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr K referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator considered Mr Ks complaint. He didnt think this was a scam  and that it was 
more likely a civil dispute between Mr K and the seller hed paid. As a result, he didnt think 
Nationwide were liable for returning Mr Ks funds.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators findings. Mr K said:
The vehicle was sold to him with the full apprehension of its malfunction
He has driven the car for no more than half a mile
While he appreciates the £50 compensation provided, he did not agree to this
He doesnt feel Nationwide attempted to try and get his money back from the seller
As Mr K didnt agree with the investigators findings, the complaint has been referred to me 
to reach a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Having done so, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require Nationwide to refund the 
money Mr K sent. I can appreciate that this outcome is not the one Mr K was hoping for. I 
understand Mr K took prudent steps to satisfy himself that the car he was purchasing was of 
an acceptable standard - ensuring the car had a MOT  and that due to circumstances 
outside of his control he was unable to collect the car in person. I can therefore understand 
why hes frustrated that hes not been able to recover his money when the car has not turned 
out to be what he expected. But having thought about Nationwides actions, I am unable to 
say it has responsibility for refunding the money Mr K sent. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
When Nationwide made the payments, it was complying with Mr Ks instructions. At the time, 
Mr K wanted to pay the beneficiary account and there was no mistake made as the money 
was sent to the correct account details. As I dont think Nationwide acted incorrectly by 
making the payments, Ive gone on to consider whether it should have refunded Mr K for any 
other reason.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which Nationwide 
has signed up to and was in force at the time Mr K made the payment.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam. Ive thought about whether the 
CRM code applies in the circumstances of the payment Mr K made and, in particular, 
whether Nationwide ought to reimburse him under the provisions of the Code. But the Code 
is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods,
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
From what Ive seen, I dont think I can fairly say that the situation Mr K finds himself in is a 
scam. I think the payment Mr K made forms part of a civil dispute and is therefore not 
covered by the CRM Code. This means I dont think Nationwide is responsible for 
reimbursing Mr K because of any obligation under the CRM Code.
I can appreciate, considering the immediate issues Mr K experienced, why he feels deceived 
by the seller, believing the car was sold with known problems  and I understand Mr K also 
has concerns about the log book received. But Im also mindful that Mr K did receive a car for the money he paid, and that the seller did initially respond to Mr Ks calls when he raised 
concerns about the cars quality. I dont think the available evidence demonstrates that the 
seller set out to deceive Mr K  while I recognise that Mr K has received a defective car and 
that this doesnt correspond with the sellers advertisement description, that is not the same 
thing as finding fraudulent intent. While the car was not of satisfactory quality when sold to 
Mr K, unfortunately this is an issue thats specifically stated as not being covered by the 
CRM Code.
For this reason, I also dont think Nationwide acted unfairly by not contacting the sellers 
beneficiary bank, as I would only expect them to do so if flagging a payment as fraudulent. I 
appreciate Mr K was given incorrect information by Nationwide on this point, but I think the 
£50 Nationwide has offered is fair compensation to apologise for this mistake.
Overall, while Im very sorry to disappoint Mr K, I cannot fairly find Nationwide liable to 
reimburse Mr K for the money he paid. The CRM Code provides additional protection for 
victims of APP scams but is not applicable to civil disputes (as I consider this to be). 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman