DRN-2709959
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly declined a claim for theft under his 
watch insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H made a claim to Allianz for a luxury watch that had been stolen during a burglary at 
his home. He said CCTV showed the burglars outside the property climbing a wall to a first 
floor window and theyd broken the window to get in.
Allianz instructed a loss adjuster to investigate. The loss adjuster visited Mr Hs home. He 
told Allianz that he couldnt find any damage to the window, the lock mechanism or the 
frame. The loss adjuster said that according to Mr H no repairs had been carried out to the 
window. Allianz decided that the window couldnt have been securely shut. So it declined 
the claim.
Mr H complained to Allianz. He said the window had been shut and it was damaged, 
indicating forced entry by the burglars. He also said his home insurer had settled a claim 
for the theft of other contents during the burglary.
As Allianz didnt change its decision, Mr H brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold it. She didnt think Allianz had acted unfairly in declining the 
claim.
As Mr H didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy doesnt cover theft from the property unless the property is occupied or 
secured. No-one was in the property at the time of the break-in. So the key question is 
whether Allianz acted reasonably in saying that the first floor window was unsecured. When 
an insurer seeks to rely on a policy exclusion to decline a claim, its for the insurer to show 
that the exclusion in question applies. 
Allianz loss adjuster visited Mr Hs home 15 days after the burglary. He reported:
When I attended I saw no damage to the window, the frame or any of the internal 
multi-locking points. This is a UPVC window so in my experience to force the window open 
when it is locked has to cause damage either to UPVC frame itself and / or the internal lock, 
even if it is just prising marks to the UPVC frame. Nothing was evident as can be seen in the 
pictures I took. I took photographs of the point of entry both from window level and ground 
floor level to support that I had not seen any damage.
Ive looked at the photos taken by the loss adjuster. In my opinion they support his 
conclusion.
Unfortunately for Mr H, the police report doesnt make any findings as to how the burglars 
got into the property.
The contents insurers window specialist visited the property about three weeks after the 
loss adjuster. He reported that there were minimal signs of forced entry. He said:
The horizontal transom has one jemmy mark and scratches/gauges and the right side of 
sash has one jemmy mark.
Mr H has provided photos which show the above damage.
I dont dispute that the window shows some signs of damage now. But I find the contents 
insurers expert report less persuasive than that of the loss adjuster sent by Allianz. Thats 
because it was prepared a few weeks after the loss adjusters visit. If the signs of damage 
had been there at the time of the original inspection, Id have expected the loss adjuster to 
have noticed them and for the damage to be visible in his photos as well but theyre not. And 
in saying that, I note that some of the photos in the two reports are taken from similar angles.
In situations like this, I have to decide whats more likely to have happened. On the basis of 
all the evidence presented to me I think its more likely that burglars got into Mr Hs property 
because a window was left insecure. So I think Allianz was entitled to decline the claim. 
I note that the insurer of Mr Hs contents policy accepted the claim for other contents that 
were stolen in the burglary. I understand that this appears inconsistent to Mr H. But I can 
only assess the actions of Allianz in relation to its policy.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman