DRN-1910109
 
The complaint
Mr M believes AvantCredit of UK, LLC acted irresponsibly by agreeing a loan hed applied 
for.
What happened
Mr M applied for a £4,100 loan with AvantCredit, to be repaid over 36 months at an interest 
rate of 49.8%. This was approved and the loan started in May 2018, with repayments of 
£163.30 a month. The loan is scheduled to be repaid in April 2021.
Mr M has complained that AvantCredit didnt act responsibly when approving the loan, and 
that it wasnt affordable when all of his financial commitments were taken into consideration. 
This has led to financial difficulties and him having to borrow money to make repayments.
Our investigator thought the loan wasnt affordable to Mr M at the time he applied for it and 
AvantCredit hadnt done proportionate checks before approving the loan. So he 
recommended AvantCredit should refund Mr M any payments hed made, less the amount 
hed originally borrowed, plus interest.
AvantCredit didnt agree with the investigator. They felt theyd fully considered all of Mr Ms 
circumstances when approving the loan and that the loan was affordable. They say his 
declared monthly income of £1,950 was verified with the Affordability Report, and his stated 
expenses (which they assumed didnt include his existing debt repayments) were £1,087. 
So, with existing debt repayments of £490, their payment of £163.30 was affordable. 
And they say the credit report didnt show that Mr M had any recent defaults or indicate any 
financial difficulties. So theyve asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable 
and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was 
fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the 
loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
AvantCredit did an Affordability Report, which shows Mr Ms income had increased by 100% 
in the last 3-months (hed declared hed been in his current job for 7-months). This also 
showed his total unsecured debt was more than six times his monthly income. These were 
not flagged as items of concern.
But the Affordability Report did flag some items of concern. It said Mr Ms total unsecured 
payments were 38% of his net monthly income. This was flagged as amber as was Input 
Monthly Net Income v OI Calculated Income. This last point couldve indicated that Mr M 
had over-estimated his monthly income. Ive seen Mr Ms bank statements for the time he 
took out the loan, although AvantCredit didnt have sight of these at the time. These show Mr 
M had over-estimated his income by £25 a month, but AvantCredit wouldnt have known this 
 they believed his income to be the amount declared.
The Affordability Report also flagged that Mr M had increased the balance on 5 accounts in 
the last three months, and that his credit card balances were 97% of the available credit limit 
 a ratio thatd increased in the last 3-months. These items were all flagged as red.
Ive also seen the credit report which AvantCredit relied upon when making their lending 
decision. This shows two historic defaults, dating back to 2013. It also shows monthly loan 
repayments totalling £490 and credit card balances totalling £8,759 (which would indicate 
minimum payments of at least £263 a month, based on a 3% minimum payment). So Mr Ms 
debt repayments would be at least £753 a month, and not the £490 AvantCredit say.
Mr M had over-declared his monthly income to be £1,950; with rent, utility bills (not including 
council tax) and transport costs of £820 a month. AvantCredit ask for council tax payments 
on their application form, but Mr M didnt provide this information. So Id reasonably expect 
AvantCredit to account for this in any affordability calculation. And I think at least £100 a 
month is a reasonable figure to use. And Mr M had declared other expenditure of £50 a 
month (which his bank statements show to be his mobile phone bill).
So the information available to AvantCredit when they made their lending decision said Mr M 
had an income of £1,950, essential outgoings of at least £970 a month, and debt 
repayments of at least £753 a month. This would leave him with monthly disposable income 
of £227. After paying AvantCredit £163 a month, this shows it would leave Mr M with just 
£64 a month for other expenditure such as food. And because Mr M had over-estimated his 
income, the actual amount was just £39.
I appreciate they dont agree with this, but I feel that the above information shows that the 
loan wasnt affordable to Mr M at the time of application, and AvantCredit shouldnt have 
agreed it.
Putting things right
AvantCredit shouldnt have lent to Mr M so they should do the following:
Total up the amount of repayments Mr M has paid them towards this loan, and then 
deduct the amount he originally borrowed from this amount.
If the total repayments made are more than the amount borrowed - refund Mr M the 
difference plus simple interest on the refunded amount, calculated at 8% a year from 
the date of the repayments to the date of the refund.
If the amount borrowed is more than the total repayments made  attempt to arrange 
a suitable repayment plan with Mr M. No interest should be charged on this 
outstanding balance.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ms credit file, related to this loan.
HM Revenue & Customs require AvantCredit to take off tax from the 8% interest. So they 
must also give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ms complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC must 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman