Page 1 of 8The complaint
Mr O complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua and Marbles (NewDay) irresponsibly 
provided him with two credit cards and limit increases on those cards, which increased his 
debt.  
What happened
In August 2015, Mr O applied for an Aqua branded credit card with NewDay. At the time, he 
had an income of £48,000 and unsecured debts of £40,800. His application was approved 
with an initial credit limit of £900. The card had an APR of 39.9%. 
Mr O was then offered credit limit increases. Each letter notifying Mr O of the increase gave 
him the option to refuse it. Mr O didnt do this and increases were made as set out below.
Date Amount of additional credit New limit
3 November 2015 £900 £1,800
30 March 2016 £600 £2,400
5 October 2016 £1,250 £3,650
Mr Os spending, including on gambling sites and cash withdrawals, continued and his 
balance increased to near to his new credit limit soon after each increase. Mr O went above 
his limit, incurring fees, and generally only made his minimum payments.
In March 2017, Mr O applied for a Marbles branded credit card with NewDay. His application 
was approved with an initial credit limit of £300. The card had an APR of 39.9%. Like the 
Aqua card, Mr O was offered a credit limit increase. Mr O didnt decline this and sooner after 
the limit was increased as set out below.
Date Amount of additional credit New limit
27 July 2017 £300 £1,200
Mr Os spending, including pawnbrokers, cash withdrawals and payday loan repayments, 
continued. In the same way as hed operated his Aqua card, his balance increased to near to 
his new credit limit shortly after each increase and he mainly made only the minimum 
payments.
In June 2018, Mr O spoke to NewDay about his financial difficulties and said he couldnt 
meet the repayments. A payment plan was agreed but, as payments were missed, a default 
was recorded on Mr Os credit file. The debt was sold to a third party in December 2018.
DRN-2873482Page 2 of 8Mr O complained to NewDay. He says at the time of his application his credit rating was 
poor, he had payday loans and overdrafts. He also said the credit limit was being increased 
even though there was evidence of gambling on the account as well as over the limit and 
late payment fees. He doesnt think sufficient checks were made before NewDay accepted 
his credit card applications or proactively offered him the credit limit increases.
NewDay didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. It said it offers credit cards to people who have poor 
credit, which can help customers improve their credit rating. NewDay said that to accept his 
application, it considered the following information:
- He was employed earning £48,000 with £40,800 of unsecured debt at the time he 
applied for the Aqua card. And an income of £55,000 and unsecured debt of £50,700 
when applying for the Marbles card; and 
- The information from credit reference agencies (CRAs) which showed Mr O not 
having any arrears, public records or defaults on his credit file.
NewDay said Mr O hadnt informed it of his gambling problem at the time of applying for the 
credit cards. It said all credit increases had been correctly offered and Mr O didnt opt out of 
any of them.
Mr O brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld Mr Os complaint. He said 
he didnt think NewDay had completed reasonable or proportionate checks when agreeing to 
give Mr O credit under both the Aqua and the Marbles brands. He said NewDays checks 
showed that Mr O had nine other active accounts at the time of the Aqua application and, 
given that Mr O had debt of significantly more than half of his income, our investigator 
thought it wouldve been proportionate for NewDay to have carried out other checks to 
ensure that any payments would be affordable and sustainable. 
Had it done so, our investigator noted from the bank statements supplied by Mr O that his 
account was operating persistently in an arranged overdraft. And, in the months leading up 
to the credit card limit increases, the money coming into the account is closely matched to 
the money going out of the account and, on some occasions, the money going out is greater. 
Further, some of the money coming into the account is funded by payday lenders, loans and 
betting returns. Our investigator also looked at the activity on Mr Os NewDay account. He 
said Mr O immediately took cash withdrawals, only made the minimum payments and, as 
early as October 2015, was late in making a payment which led to a late payment fee being 
incurred. He felt these things could indicate financial difficulty and an inability to make 
payments in a sustainable way. 
So, our investigator felt NewDay wouldnt have offered Mr O either credit card or the 
subsequent credit limit increases had it taken these factors into account. Taking all of this 
into account, our investigator felt a fair outcome of the complaint would be to refund all 
interest and charges applied to the account and re work it, paying interest on any credit 
balance. He also asked NewDay to remove any adverse information from Mr Os credit file.
Mr O accepted the investigators view. But NewDay didnt. It said it relied on data submitted 
by Mr O and from CRAs. So, it didnt find it acceptable to apply the information from Mr Os 
bank statements retrospectively when this wasnt required during the application. In 
summary, it made the following points:
1. At the time of both the Aqua and Marbles applications, there were no external 
accounts in arrears, financial difficulties or payday loans, which is evidence Mr O 
could maintain his payments. He had no public records such as CCJs or IVAs. 
Neither did he have any payment arrangements or debt management programmes.Page 3 of 82. Although Mr O had 9 active lines of credit with other lenders and a high unsecured 
balance, he also had a high income and was maintaining his payments.
3. As Mr O made a payment above the minimum in late September, the late payment in  
October 2015 more of a timing issue, rather than an inability to pay.
4. In terms of the over-limit fees, Newdays policy is to only exclude customers from limit 
increases where theyve incurred an over limit fee in all three months leading up to 
the increase. So, the increases were within its policy. For example, when the second 
credit limit increase offer was made in March 2016, only one late payment  fee had 
been charged in January 2016, and one over limit fee in February 2016.
5. The cash transactions (cash withdrawals and transactions deemed to be cash by the 
card scheme such as payments to gambling sites) were made in line with the terms 
and conditions of Mr Os credit agreement.
6. In March 2016, although Mr O had previously had 26 payday loans, he had only 
opened one of these within the preceding three months. Also, it received data to 
show he had a total debt with other creditors of £88,085 but this decreased to
£77,607 by December 2016, after the third credit limit increase had taken place.
7. In terms of the third Aqua credit limit increase offered in October 2016, it said Mr O 
had not been sufficiently delinquent to prevent this offer from being made . He hadnt 
had any late payments fees and the last two over limit fees were charged in May and 
June 2016. Also, his total debt had decreased to £73,296.
8. Specifically, in relation to the Marbles application, NewDay say Mr O still had 9 active 
lines of credit with other lenders and a high unsecured balance. However, he also  
had a high income and was maintaining his payments. In March 2017, his Aqua 
account had not been over limit since December 2016 and it hadnt entered arrears  
since January 2016. Externally, there were 2 active payday loans, but no evidence of 
any arrears or financial difficulties. At the time the Marbles credit limit increase went 
ahead, Mr Os account had been recently over limit, but not outside of policy and 
hadnt entered arrears. His total debt had decreased to £93,165 (it had been over
£102,000 the month prior), there were no active payday loans and no evidence of 
financial difficulty. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking into account the rules, regulations, guidance and good industry practice, I think that 
there are three key questions for me to think about while looking at Mr Os complaint. These 
are: 
1. Did Newday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the
initial decision to lend and subsequent increases, would be repayable by Mr O in a
sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make fair lending decisions?
b. If not, would those checks have shown that the lending was affordable?
2. Should Newday have realised it was increasing Mr Os indebtedness in a way that
was unsustainable or otherwise harmful, so shouldnt have provided the lending?
3. Did Newday act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Newday was required to carry out proportionate checks, having regard to the relevant 
factors. And, while I accept its for Newday to decide its approach to credit risk when 
considering applications for credit, creditworthiness is also relevant to affordability and this 
isnt simply a matter of commercial judgement for NewDay. Page 4 of 8I note Newday explains the products applied for by Mr O were and are designed for and 
aimed at customers who tend to have impaired credit records. I think its important that 
NewDays responsibilities as a lender should be considered in that context. And, its due to 
the nature of Newdays target customer base for this product, that the importance of 
reasonable and proportionate checks cant be overstated.
Aqua card  application for credit, August 2015
As mentioned above, before agreeing to make credit available to Mr O, NewDay needed to 
make proportionate checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable 
for him. Theres no prescribed list of checks a lender should make but lenders should 
consider a range of things such as the type and amount of credit, the borrower's income and 
credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well the consumer's personal 
circumstances.
Mr O was initially given a credit limit of £900 on the Aqua account. Considered on its own, 
the credit limit was relatively high albeit broadly proportionate compared with his income. 
Even so, there are other factors which persuade me that further checks shouldve been 
made to ensure the credit was affordable and sustainable for him.
Ive looked at what checks NewDay said it did prior to the credit card application being
accepted. It used information from credit agencies and saw that Mr O had nine active
accounts/cards. It had no data of any payday loans which were reported to them. But it did 
know that Mr O had more than £40,000 of unsecured debt when he applied for the Aqua 
card. This is a substantial level of unsecured debt for anyone and, for Mr O, as it almost 
equalled his gross annual salary at the time of the application.
I appreciate the data NewDay had showed that Mr O didnt have any active or defaulted 
payday loans or any which were in arrears. But this isnt any accurate reflection of his 
financial situation at the time. His bank account statements show he was making payday 
lending payments and other numerous loan repayments each month as well as being 
overdrawn by nearly £5,000 at the time of the application for the Aqua card. And I cant see 
the reporting of the payday loans to NewDay was accurate when it states there werent any. 
It looks as though this data simply wasnt provided to it before March 2016. I say this 
because by the time this information was included in the report to NewDay, it revealed Mr O 
had 26 payday loans with one being applied for in the 3 months prior.
So, the information used to accept Mr Os application wasnt accurate as this wouldve 
reflected that Mr O had a number of active loans, including payday loans, when he applied 
for the Aqua and Marbles cards. This indicates the credit cards might not be affordable or 
sustainable for him in the longer term as he didnt have enough disposable income to meet 
his outgoings.
Although NewDay werent aware of this  as this didnt show up on the information it 
received from the CRA  it did know he had such a significant amount of unsecured debt 
that it almost matched his gross salary. And such debt is likely to require substantial monthly 
payments to maintain it. In light of this, I think Newday had information to suggest it needed 
carry out further reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure the lending was affordable 
for Mr O i.e. it would be repayable by Mr O in a sustainable way.
If NewDay had asked Mr O for his outgoings, Im persuaded he wouldve mentioned the 
payments he was making to service the unsecured credit and this wouldve been a reason to 
prompt them to do further checks. Had it done so, the extensive gambling would also likely Page 5 of 8have been spotted as well as a reliance on loans, payday lenders and other unsecured 
forms of high cost credit to manage the spending on his account. 
In summary, I dont think the checks Newday carried out were proportionate and reasonable 
when Mr O applied for the Aqua card. Had it done so, its likely NewDay wouldnt have 
offered credit to Mr O when he applied for it as this wouldnt have shown he was able to 
repay it in a sustainable way.
Mr Os financial situation doesnt improve from this point. In fact, the money going into and 
out of his bank account each month increases to more than £13,000 by December 2016 and 
far in excess of his salary. And, according to Newdays statements, its clear he incurs some 
further over limit fees, makes cash-based and betting transactions and is borrowing money 
elsewhere. Because Ive concluded the approval of the application for the Aqua card wasnt 
proportionate, it follows that the checks for the subsequent increases when Mr Os situation 
hadnt improved werent either. Even so, Ive gone onto consider some of the specific issues 
in relation to the credit limit increases on the Aqua card for completeness.
Aqua card - credit limit increases
Having only had the Aqua card a very short period and given the high amount of unsecured 
debt Mr O already had, I think Newday had information to suggest it needed carry our further 
checks to ensure the increased lending was affordable, before offering an increased credit 
limit. 
Even so, CONC 5.2.4G(3) says that a creditworthiness check can include previous dealings 
with the customer. And, in the context of a running credit account like this one and Newdays 
model of increasing credit limits after starting them low, I think the way in which the account 
has been run would be a particularly important factor to consider before offering increases. 
Mr O had considerable unsecured personal debt, which was clear from his credit file at the 
times of these offers to increase his credit limit. There is also considerable evidence of 
spending on gambling sites, and he quickly reached and remained at his credit limits very 
soon after the cards were issued and after his limits were extended. Even at the point of the 
first credit limit increase, Mr O had carried out a couple of cash spend transactions on the 
account and incurred one default fee in October 2015 after he missed making the minimum 
repayment by the due date. These things shouldve caused Newday to consider that it 
needed to carry out some further checks before granting Mr O an increase  since cash 
transactions on such an account are a particularly expensive way of borrowing money - and 
might have indicated cashflow issues  which begin to call into question the sustainability of 
repaying the maximum balance over a reasonable period of time.
I think the fact that Mr O incurred a late payment fee within the first two statements of having 
the Aqua card is also significant. This is because it raised the possibility that was having 
difficulty with his overall finances. Particularly bearing in mind that this account represented 
quite an expensive way to borrow money. And this raised the prospect that Mr O might 
struggle to sustainably repay any credit balance over a reasonable period. 
I have also kept in mind the high rates of interest on these cards, and that extending his 
limits was unlikely to help Mr O to reduce the costs of his debt (for example by consolidating 
debt at a lower interest rate). NewDay has indicated that all its lending criteria was met for 
Mr O, and consideration was given to his overall indebtedness. It has said spending on 
gambling would not be automatic barrier to increased lending, and it notes Mr O made his 
minimum payments on time for most of his account lifetimes. But, as Ive already said, 
Newdays approach to credit risk is separate to its obligations as far as the affordability of the 
borrowing for Mr O was concerned. So, Ive thought about what a proportionate check Page 6 of 8wouldve involved. And given what Ive said earlier about what the over limit fees potentially 
indicated, I think it would have involved some assessment of Mr Os income and 
expenditure. 
Having decided this, I also need to decide whether it is more likely that a proportionate check 
wouldve told Newday that Mr O wasnt going to be able to sustainably repay the credit limit 
over a reasonable period of time. Ive seen a number of Mr Os bank statements in the lead 
up to the limit increases. And just because something shows up in the information Mr O has 
provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve shown up in any further enquiries Newday mightve 
carried out at the time. But I think its fair, reasonable and proportionate to place 
considerable weight on it as an indication of what Mr Os financial circumstances were likely 
to have been. 
Bank statements provided by Mr O show he was receiving employed income of a little over 
£3,000 a month. They also show significant gambling expenditure, with numerous gambling 
transactions being made. Mr O did also have some credits from his gambling but these were 
limited and his gambling expenditure far outweighed these. In each month, Mr O started and 
finished in his overdraft by more than £4,500. He incurs a number of unplanned overdraft 
fees and there is evidence of payday loans being taken out and maintained along with 
numerous forms of other unsecured credit and loans. From January 2016, many of the 
transactions were related to gambling or cash advances. This all builds a picture of someone 
struggling with their finances. And, given the amount of money being spent on gambling, I 
think its likely there ought to have been real questions about whether it wouldve been 
responsible or appropriate to increase Mr Os credit card limit. Even if the gambling itself had 
not provided cause for concern, it seems that it is contributing to broader financial problems. 
For example, the evidence of payday loans and other finance as well as a reliance on a 
substantial overdraft suggest that Mr D was struggling to meet his existing commitments. 
And this wouldve called into question Mr Ds ability to sustainably repay the increased credit 
limit in a reasonable period of time. 
As a result of this, I dont think the checks Newday carried out were proportionate or 
reasonable when the unsolicited offers to increase the credit limit on his Aqua card were 
made. Evidence was available to demonstrate his increasing indebtedness and potentially 
significant issues with gambling spending. Further, I dont think that offering opt out credit 
limit increases when he had reached his lower credit limits, and had often remained for some 
time at those limits, could have helped his financial situation.
Marbles card  application for credit, July 2017, and one credit limit increase
Mr O applied for the Marbles card while he had an Aqua card. This means the information 
Newday held about how that account had operated would reasonably have been relevant to 
its lending decision on the Marbles application. I can see from the affordability data supplied 
by Newday that Mr O was over his Aqua account limit in three out of the seven months prior 
to his application for the Marbles card and incurred the associated over limit fees. He had 
also incurred eighty-one cash advance fees in the same period and his unsecured lending 
was now at more than £50,000 with a new payday loan was being applied for almost 
monthly, with four bring applied for in the three months up to time he applied for the Marbles 
card. This ought to have given a strong indication that Mr O was reliant on the credit and 
was having difficulty with his overall finances. 
Mr O has also supplied copies of his bank statements in the lead up to the opening of the 
Marbles account. These show a similar picture to the one described earlier, in the lead up to 
application for and increases on the Aqua card. There is evidence of the extensive use of 
payday loans, other forms of lending and loans leading up to the card being taken out. The 
reliance on the overdraft had continued at more than £4,000. Each month, the money Page 7 of 8coming into his account including through various forms of credit and loans is more than 
£13,000 and the money going out his account closely matches this. This signals a reliance 
on short term high cost credit. And, once again, there is substantial gambling activity. I can 
also see that there was continued gambling spend on the Aqua card around the same time 
in so far as the credit limit allowed. 
I cannot say for sure what Newday wouldve done upon finding out about Mr Os broader 
financial situation, but the picture presented is once again of someone struggling with their 
finances. Given a considerable amount of money was being spent on gambling and the 
payment of finance, I think its likely there ought to have been real questions about whether it 
wouldve been responsible or appropriate to provide Mr O with access to further credit, even 
though the initial credit limit was relatively small. Whilst I consider the level of gambling gave 
cause for concern, even if it wasnt it wouldve been clear that it was still contributing to 
broader financial problems. The frequent use of payday loans and other high cost credit 
shows Mr O was struggling to meet his existing commitments and was reliant on credit to 
repay existing credit. This wouldve called into question Mr Os ability to sustainably repay 
any credit limit in a reasonable period of time. 
So, in summary, I dont think the checks Newday carried out were proportionate or 
reasonable when Mr O applied for the Marbles card. Had it carried out proportionate checks, 
I think it likely NewDay would have realised the lending was unsustainable and wouldnt 
have offered a Marbles card to Mr O. Because Ive concluded the approval of the application 
wasnt proportionate and also as his situation hadnt improved by the time the credit limit 
increase on the Marbles card was offered to him, it follows that the checks for the 
subsequent Marbles credit limit increase werent either. 
Im not ignoring the fact that Newday has said Mr O didnt ever notify it of his gambling. But 
this doesnt alter the fact that Newday was required to check its lending was affordable. I 
also note Mr O hadnt had any defaults or County Court Judgments prior to the application. 
This would suggest that Mr O didnt have any major issues in maintaining his payments up to 
the point of acceptance. But it also doesnt show the full picture here and I think its that 
which was missing from the assessment. For the reasons set out above, Im persuaded that 
it wouldve been proportionate and reasonable for NewDay to investigate the unsecured debt 
Mr O had in more detail, along with his outgoings prior to accepting his application. And, if 
these checks had been made, itd show that Mr O was using unsecured borrowing to meet 
his outgoings, including the maintenance of other borrowing. 
Mr O has asked NewDay to refund all interest charged plus 8% interest. Here, I think its fair 
that Mr O repays what he borrowed from NewDay, but only that amount. I dont think its fair 
that hes disadvantaged by having to pay back any more than this. So my decision is that 
NewDay should remove all interest and charges applied to the account and recalculate what 
(if anything) Mr O owes from the initial amount he borrowed. As Im persuaded that, had 
NewDay completed further checks this is more likely to have changed their decision to 
accept Mr O for the credit card and increase his limit, I think it would also be fair that 
NewDay put Mr O in the same position he was in prior to their acceptance of the Aqua and 
Marbles credit cards. It should do this by removing any adverse information from Mr Os 
credit file relating to the NewDay credit card.
From what Ive seen, NewDay sold the outstanding balance on Mr Os accounts to a third-
party debt purchaser. So, it either needs to buy the account back from the third party and 
make the necessary adjustments or pay an amount to the third party in order for it to make 
the necessary adjustments.  
Putting things rightPage 8 of 8In order to put things right, NewDay should: 
1. Rework Mr Os Aqua and Marbles accounts to ensure that all interest, fees, and
charges applied to the accounts from the outset are removed. All late payment and
over limit fees should also be removed.
2. If an outstanding balance remains on Mr Os accounts once all adjustments have
been made, NewDay should  if it has bought the account back from the third party -
contact Mr O to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this.
3. For any period the account was in credit, 8% simple interest should be added to the
amount of credit until it went out of credit or the date of settlement.
4. NewDay should remove any adverse information from Mr Os credit file in relation to
the accounts which are the subject of this complaint.
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay must 
give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Os complaint. NewDay Ltd must take the steps 
set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman