DRN-1549371
 
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) closed down her local 
branch in June 2017 which makes it harder for her to do her banking. She also said shes no 
longer able to use her cards to withdraw money from her savings accounts and has been 
told she needs to transfer her money into her current account and withdraw it from there. 
What happened
Mrs R told us she has savings accounts and a current account which she uses to pay her 
bills with by transferring money from the savings accounts. She said NatWest has cancelled 
the cards she has for her savings accounts and told her she, instead, needs to transfer her 
money to her current account or to bank online. She said she doesnt trust online or phone 
banking and doesnt want to do that. She also said NatWest told her she can also do some 
of her banking at the Post Office but she isnt able to pay her credit card that way because it 
doesnt have a barcode. Mrs R also said that NatWest closed a number of local branches 
over the years which means she has to spend more time waiting to be served when she 
goes to the bank.
Mrs R complained to NatWest who didnt uphold her complaint. It said its decision to close 
Mrs Rs local branch wasnt taken lightly and it was a commercial decision taken because of 
changes in the way people do their banking which includes using their phone, going to the 
Post Office etc. It also said its decision not to renew cards for savings accounts was also a 
bank decision and not made in error so it wouldnt reverse it. It apologised for any delays 
Mrs R may have experienced whilst at one of its branches and said it would take into 
account any external costs she may have incurred.
Mrs R was unhappy with NatWests response and complained to us. She asked for a mobile 
bank and better banking services. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He thought the decisions to close Mrs Rs local branch and to not reissue cards for 
Mrs Rs savings accounts were commercial decisions NatWest was entitled to reach and 
that it kept Mrs R informed as required under industry standards.
Mrs R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Before I proceeded with my 
decision we asked NatWest for evidence that it had made Mrs R aware of the closure of her 
local branch at least 12 weeks before it closed down as required by industry standards. 
NatWest said it had and that it also liaised with Mrs Rs member of parliament (MP) in 
relation to this and also put a notice in the local paper around six months before the branch 
was closed. But it wasnt able to provide us with any evidence, such as letters, that it made 
Mrs R aware of these changes directly. 
We also asked Mrs R how these changes have affected her. She said in order to pay her 
credit card and do her baking in general she has to drive eight to ten miles to the nearest 
NatWest branch. She also said that she could use her current account to pay her credit card 
by direct debit but she doesnt like doing that. She told us that she keeps all her money in 
her savings accounts and only transfers money into her current account when she pays 
something by cheque and doesnt like to use this account for anything else. When we asked Mrs R if NatWest made her aware that the branch was closing she said it 
did. She the staff at the branch were showing customers how to use online banking before 
the branch closing down. Our investigator asked Mrs R whether, if NatWest was prepared to 
give her a direct contact to call in order do her banking through them she would be prepared 
to do so, but she said she wouldnt trust this method either. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Under the Access to Banking Protocol which is an agreement that banks had signed up to at 
the time NatWest decided to proceed with the closure, NatWest had to give its customers at 
least 12 weeks notice before closing their local branch. The agreement also says that when 
a bank decides to close a branch, it should provide its customers with clear information 
about what the closure means for them and how they can continue to use other banking 
facilities following the closure. Banks were also expected to publish an Impact Assessment 
for each branch closure and to communicate directly with their customers about the closure. 
NatWest has provided us with a copy of its branch closure notice which is dated April 2017 
with the proposed closure planned for June 2017. The notice says that it had already notified 
business and individual customers and had given them 12 weeks notice of the closure. The 
notice also states that NatWest had been in touch with politicians and the local MP and that 
it had also put a notice of the closure in a local paper. It also sent us a letter it sent to the 
local MP in November 2016- over six months before the closure. All of these steps are in line 
with the relevant protocol Ive mentioned above.
NatWest said due to system restrictions its not able to provide us with evidence it wrote to 
each of its affected customers individually though it would have done so. Mrs R has told us 
that its staff spoke to her about the closure at the branch, so I think even if NatWest didnt 
write to her it did enough to make her directly aware of the closure. 
Mrs R has told us that she only likes face to face banking so the options of phone or online 
banking arent suitable for her. I appreciate that Mrs R doesnt trust these methods but 
NatWest is entitled to make a decision as a business to close her branch and thats 
something we wouldnt interfere with. As Ive said above Im satisfied that NatWest gave her 
enough notice about the closure- which is what I expect it to do. And from what Ive seen it 
also gave her other options such as banking via the Post Office and also told her where her 
other local branches would be (in its closure notice).
In relation to Mrs Rs credit card, I dont think this is something I can hold NatWest 
responsible for as the Post Offices procedures are outside its control. As Mrs R said, she 
has the option to set up a direct debit through her current account but she said she prefers to 
have all her money in her savings account. While I realise why Mrs R might prefer this, its 
ultimately her own preference to maintain her accounts in this way, its not something I can 
fairly say that NatWest are responsible for.
NatWest said it gave Mrs R 60 days notice in relation to changes to her savings account 
cards. I accept that this is again a commercial decision NatWest reached which, from what 
Ive seen, its applied to all its customers. So, again, this isnt something we would interfere 
with. Also I dont think Mrs R has been treated unfairly or unreasonably by NatWest in 
relation to this. For the reasons Ive given I wont be upholding this complaint. I appreciate Mrs R will be 
disappointed with this decision but I dont think NatWest has treated her in any way which 
was unfair or unreasonable- or any differently to its other customers. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman