DRN-1393729
 
The complaint
Miss D complains that she was mis-sold a life and critical illness policy by a representative of 
TenetLime Ltd.
What happened
In August 2018 Miss D remortgaged and it was suggested that she might be able to reduce 
the cost of her existing life and critical illness cover. She spoke with the representative who, 
after obtaining details of her circumstances recommended two new policies for mortgage 
and general cover, both with her existing provider. They appeared to be better value, based 
on Miss D's smoker status having changed. 
When Miss D cancelled her existing polices, her previous broker pointed out that her  
smoker status hadn't actually changed because she hadn't stopped smoking for a whole 
year. Miss D was very unhappy to discover this and to then have the inconvenience of trying 
to reinstate her old policies. She complained to TenetLime but it didn't uphold the complaint. 
It felt the representative had acted correctly and that Miss D had confirmed that she met the 
required definition of a non-smoker. It also noted that Miss D had been given several 
opportunities to reinstate her existing policies but had ultimately approached the policy 
provider to arrange proceeding with a single policy based upon her actual smoker status. 
Miss D wasn't satisfied with TenetLime's response and its implication in its final response 
that she'd deliberately given incorrect information about her smoker status. So, she referred 
her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the matter but was unable to conclude that TenetLime had acted 
incorrectly. He felt that in the absence of recordings of the phone calls between
Miss D and the adviser, it was most likely there'd been a misunderstanding.
He said the adviser's notes showed Miss D had stopped and started smoking at various 
times, so it was possible that some confusion about this had arisen. The investigator also 
noted that the policy provider would've sent details of the new policies showing on what 
basis the cover was being agreed, so Miss D had the opportunity to ensure it applied to her. 
And she was also given the opportunity to reinstate her previous policies.
Miss D strongly disagreed with the investigator's assessment. She felt she had made her 
situation and circumstances very clear to the adviser and was unhappy that no recordings off 
the call were available. She reiterated her concern with the implication that she had lied 
about the situation and only complained when she discovered she wouldn't be covered. 
The investigator explained that he sympathised with Miss D on this point. He noted her 
suggestion that he obtain recordings of calls she'd made to the policy provider when the 
problem came to light. But he didn't feel that anything in those calls would alter his opinion 
that there was insufficient evidence relating to her interaction with the TenetLime adviser to 
show that he'd acted incorrectly.As no agreement could be reached, the matter's been referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, while I recognise Miss D 
will be very disappointed, I've come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons. 
I do appreciate that this has obviously been a very upsetting and stressful situation for
Miss D. But, on balance, I'm satisfied that this was more likely than not a case of a 
misunderstanding that arose during the phone conversations in which Miss D's 
circumstances were discussed. Looking at the representative's notes and considering what 
Miss D has told us about her circumstances, it's apparent that her smoking history has not 
been straightforward, and she has stopped on more than one occasion. This is, of course, 
not at all unusual and entirely understandable given Miss D's health issues, for which she 
has my sympathy. 
But it does mean that there was a greater a chance of misunderstanding on the 
representative's part and I don't think there's anything that supports a finding that this is a 
case of him deliberately manipulating the information in order to make a sale.
And I do have to bear in mind that after the phone calls Miss D was sent information 
confirming the basis on which the cover was being agreed, which gave a clear explanation of 
what the policy provider considered to be a non-smoker. And also, that when the problem 
came to light Miss D was given the opportunity to reinstate the old policies, and this was 
something the representative was pro-active in suggesting to her, pointing out that she had a 
limited time in which to do so. I don't think I can therefore hold TenetLime responsible for 
any additional amounts  Miss D may have ended up paying if she adopted a different 
approach and dealt directly with the policy provider. 
I agree that TenetLime's description of events in its final response was less than helpful, as I 
don't think it had any reasonable basis on which to suggest that this was any sort of 
deliberate act by Miss D. So, I do understand why Miss D is so unhappy. But in all the 
circumstances I don't think this is a complaint I can uphold, so I won't be directing 
TenetLime to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman