DRN-4341301
The complaint
Mr D complains that Retirement Line Limited (RLL) failed to treat him fairly when it assisted 
with his application for a fixed term annuity in 2023.
What happened
Mr D held pension savings with a firm I will call H. In early 2023 he approached RLL to seek 
its assistance in transferring those pension savings to a firm I will call L, in order that they 
could be used to purchase a fixed term annuity. That plan would provide Mr D with an 
income for a period of ten years, before paying him a fixed maturity payment.
When Mr D first engaged RLL, it told him that it wouldnt deduct any charges from his 
pension savings in payment for its services. It told him that, instead, L would pay it 
commission based on the value of the annuity being purchased. RLL told Mr D that its 
commission would be funded by L making an adjustment to the annuity rate he was offered. 
Later, RLL agreed to rebate £200 of the commission it would receive as an incentive for 
Mr D to use its services.
Mr D estimated his pension savings to be valued at £58,000. He provided RLL with his 
authority to contact H about the transfer of those monies. And RLL provided Mr D with a 
quotation from L showing the annuity income, and maturity payment, that he might receive. 
That quotation also showed that RLL would receive a commission payment of £1,044 for its 
services, being 1.8% of the transferred funds. Mr D confirmed his acceptance of that 
quotation.
There appears to have been some delay in completing the transfer from H to L due to 
problems with H applying the letter of authority that RLL had sent. The final transfer amount 
was a little less than the original estimate Mr D had provided. So L needed to issue a new 
quotation based on the lower amount. But that quotation was incorrect as L had failed to 
account for any commission being paid to RLL.
RLL told Mr D that an error had been made in the new quotation and told him that a revised 
version had been requested. When that was completed the maturity payment due to Mr D 
was reduced to take account of the commission that would be paid. RLL says that it made 
Mr D aware of the new values, and accepted the quotation on his behalf following his 
agreement.
I understand that Mr D has subsequently discussed the quotation with L, and it has agreed 
to cancel the annuity. So Mr D complains that he now still holds his pension savings as a 
lump sum, and is not receiving the income that he asked RLL to arrange in February 2023. 
RLL didnt agree with Mr Ds complaint  it said that it had been clear from the outset about 
how its services would be recompensed by the pension provider. So Mr D brought his 
complaint to us.
Mr Ds complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that RLL 
had treated Mr D unfairly, or had failed to arrange the fixed term annuity on the basis that 
had been agreed. He thought that L had made an error in failing to add the commission 
payment to the revised quotation, and that it had been reasonable for RLL to ask for it to be 
amended. Although he thought that at times RLL might have communicated better with Mr D 
he didnt think Mr D had suffered any detriment as a result. So he didnt think Mr Ds 
complaint should be upheld.
Mr D didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr D and by RLL. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Mr Ds complaint points have been wide-ranging, and increased as our consideration of the 
problems has been underway. Given that all the matters in his complaint are underpinned by 
the work RLL performed to provide the annuity quotation, it seems reasonable, as RLL has 
agreed, that I deal with them in a single decision. But, although I have carefully considered 
everything Mr D has said, I wont be commenting on every aspect he has raised. I dont 
mean any discourtesy by that. But we are set up as a quick and informal alternative to Court 
proceedings and so it is more important to concentrate my findings on the key aspects of the 
complaint, rather than everything that has been raised.
Mr D clearly feels that he has been misled by RLL about how it would be renumerated for 
the work it did setting up his pension annuity. The remuneration was initially discussed with 
Mr D by telephone. On that call he was told that RLL wouldnt levy any charges on Mr Ds 
pension savings for its work. Instead it told him that it would be paid for its work via 
commission it would receive from the pension provider that Ive called L. But importantly it 
went on to explain to Mr D that L would fund the commission through variations to the 
annuity rates that it offered.
Due to the quotation error made by L, Mr D was able to clearly compare the annuity, and 
maturity lump sum, that he would receive, both with and without the addition of a 
commission payment to RLL. Adding the commission payment meant that Mr D received a 
lower lump sum at the end of his ten-year annuity. So he says that shows that he was 
funding the commission payment made to RLL from his pension savings.I think what Mr D has said is correct  the evidence shows (albeit there might have been 
some movement in annuity rates between the two quotations) that providing a commission 
payment meant that the annuity rate he received was reduced. But I dont think that was 
unsurprising, or different to what RLL had told him at the outset. It told him it would receive 
commission from L, and that the payment would be funded through the annuity rate that was 
used to provide his income.
Mr D has suggested that, since he accepted the incorrect quotation, RLL should have 
pressed L to honour what had been issued. But I dont agree that would have been a 
reasonable course of action. Mr D had agreed that L should pay a commission payment to 
RLL, and a payment of that nature had been shown on the original quotation based on his 
estimate of the pension savings being transferred. So I think it right that similar commission 
payments should have been shown on future quotations. The quotation that failed to show 
the commission payment was therefore clearly in error and needed to be corrected.
But in any case, as I set out earlier, my intention in any decision where I find fault is to put a 
consumer back into the position they would have been had the error not occurred. Here, at 
most, I could only conclude that there might have been a communication failure between 
RLL and Mr D when the incorrect quotation was issued. At that time Mr D could have 
declined that quotation and dispensed with RLLs services. And that is effectively the 
position he now finds himself in. L agreed to the cancellation of his annuity, and so Mr D 
retains his pension savings and can decide how to use them. And RLL hasnt received any 
commission for its work. So even if there had been a failure in the communication I cannot 
agree that it has caused Mr D to lose out.
Ive looked at the other issues that Mr D has raised. I find that those issues are very much 
secondary to the part of the complaint I have dealt with above. They do underline Mr Ds 
great dissatisfaction with the service he received from RLL, and his suspicion that the firm 
has failed to treat him honestly and fairly. But, as I will now go on to explain, like our 
investigator I dont think any other problems have caused Mr D to lose out either.
Mr D is unhappy that RLL failed to specifically make him aware that his pension annuity 
would be provided under a trust arrangement, and that L would be the trustee. He says that 
he only found out that information when the plan documentation was sent to him.
In my experience the arrangement that Mr D has described, and that applied to his annuity 
plan, is common across the industry. So I can understand why RLL might not have thought it 
important to specifically draw that information to Mr Ds attention. But had it done so, and 
that had caused Mr D to decide not to proceed with his annuity purchase, I fail to see that his 
situation would have been different from where he now finds himself. As I explained above, 
Mr Ds annuity purchase has been cancelled and the pension savings remain as they were 
previously, available for him to use as he now thinks appropriate.
When Mr D first contacted RLL he spoke with one of its agents who worked to understand 
the basis on which Mr D wanted the annuity to be paid. She explained to Mr D that he would 
later be allocated a customer relationship consultant (CRC). That person would then work 
with Mr D and the annuity provider to ensure all the necessary paperwork was completed 
and the annuity was put into payment. 
That is exactly what happened here. Mr D appears to have been concerned that the CRC 
hadnt been properly introduced to him, and so the contact might be fraudulent. In the 
current climate that is an entirely reasonable concern to hold. But it does seem that Mr D 
was quickly able to establish the veracity of the contact, and proceed with his annuity 
purchase. Whilst Mr D might have been slightly inconvenienced I cannot see that RLLs 
actions should lead me to consider this part of the complaint should be upheld.I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr D, particularly since he hasnt yet 
used his pension savings to purchase the annuity that he sought. But I dont think he has lost 
out as a result of anything that RLL has done wrong. The annuity quotation that was 
ultimately used as the basis of Mr Ds purchase was in line with his agreement with RLL. The 
firm didnt take any direct charges from Mr Ds pension savings for its work as it had agreed. 
And although Mr D feels that the communication from RLL might have been better, Ive not 
been persuaded that better communication would have caused him to be in a different 
position to that he is now in.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Retirement Line Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman