DRN-3361546
The complaint
Miss H and Mr P complain that AWP P&C SA (AWP) has refused their claim for a cancelled 
trip under their travel insurance policy.
Any reference to AWP also includes its agents.
What happened
Miss H and Mr P took out an annual multi trip travel policy with AWP in March 2020, which 
provided cover for trips that took place from 5 March 2020 until 4 March 2021. At the same 
time as purchasing the policy, they booked a long-haul destination trip using several different 
travel providers. They were due to travel on 19 March 2020. 
On 17 March 2020 the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel 
abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Miss H and Mr P contacted the individual providers and were able to obtain some refunds  
specifically from the airline and also for some of their hotel accommodation. However, one 
hotel refused to provide a refund but did offer a voucher for the cost of their stay, which was 
valid for a year. They were also offered the opportunity to rebook their ferry crossings for 
alternative dates. As they couldnt obtain refunds, Miss H and Mr P made a claim to AWP for 
these expenses. They explained to AWP that, even though they had been offered 
alternatives, Miss H was expecting a baby later in the year and therefore it was not possible 
for them to travel abroad.
AWP declined the claim. It said that the policy only covers irrecoverable losses and that it 
considered the alternatives they had been offered by the providers as refunds. 
Miss H and Mr P complained to AWP about this decision and also about the delays in 
handling the claim. They then brought this complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into the matter and upheld the complaint. He said that the changes to Miss H and Mr Ps 
personal circumstances meant that the voucher terms were not fair or reasonable for them to 
use. He recommended that AWP reconsider the claim for the cost of the hotel and ferry 
booking. He also said AWP should pay £75 to Miss H and Mr P for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to them for the delays in handling the claim.
Miss H and Mr P accepted the recommendations of our investigator. However, AWP didnt 
respond to our investigators view. As no response was received, the matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
promptly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when 
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss H and Mr Ps 
complaint.
Has the claim been unfairly declined?
The cause of Miss H and Mr P cancelling their trip was the change in advice by the FCDO in 
relation to non-essential travel. The policy terms and conditions provide cover for 
cancellations for this reason and so the cause of the cancellation isnt in dispute. So, the key 
issue for me to decide is whether the loss is recoverable or not.
 
AWP has said that, as Miss H and Mr P had been given an option to rebook these parts of 
the trip, the cost was recoverable  and therefore not covered by the policy. AWP also said 
that the policy doesnt provide cover for any claim where you are not wanting to travel. It is 
commonplace with all travel insurance policies that cover is only provided for costs that you 
cannot get back via any other source, and this would include vouchers or offers to rebook.
But what is important here is whether the option available to Miss H and Mr P was fair and 
gave them a reasonable opportunity to recover their loss. Ive thought about this point 
carefully, but Im not persuaded that in their particular circumstances it would be fair to 
consider this as a recoverable loss. Ill explain why.
The ferry company offered Miss H and Mr P the opportunity to transfer their ferry booking to 
alternative dates. And the accommodation provider offered a voucher which was valid until 
March 2021. Miss H and Mr P have said they couldnt have rebooked for a later date as, not 
only did they not know when travel would be allowed again, they were also expecting their 
first child later in that year and so travel would not have been possible. Ive seen 
correspondence which shows that Miss H was due to give birth in November 2020  and 
therefore it would have been highly unlikely she would have been able to travel before this 
date. And I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Miss H and Mr P to have made plans 
to travel to this long-haul destination so soon after the birth in order to use the offer of the 
voucher and ferry rebooking.
So, when taking everything into account, Im persuaded that the restricted terms of the offers 
made by the ferry company and accommodation provider made it unsuitable for Miss H and 
Mr Ps circumstances. Im satisfied these expenses should be considered irrecoverable and 
AWP should reconsider the claim on that basis.
Claims handling delays
The claim was first submitted by Miss H and Mr P on 4 April 2020 and I can see that there 
were numerous emails between the parties before the claim was declined in mid-June 2020. 
Miss H sent several emails asking for updates and, even after the claim was declined and a 
complaint made, it wasnt until September 2020 that AWP advised Miss H and Mr P that it 
was unable to complete its investigation into their complaint and referred them to this 
service. During this time Miss H sent several emails asking for a response and she made it 
clear to AWP that she was finding the process very stressful, especially as she was 
expecting her first child. 
I can appreciate how frustrating this must have been for Miss H and Mr P. And I think AWP 
could have handled the situation better by keeping them more informed about their claim 
and the subsequent complaint, especially as Miss H had informed them of how this was 
impacting her. But I must also bear in mind that AWP was dealing with an unprecedented 
situation at the time and Covid-19 has had a significant impact on the travel insurance industry given the number of customers whose travel plans were impacted by the disruption 
to travel. And so, I dont think its unreasonable that this had some impact on their normal 
levels of service. Our investigator recommended that AWP make a payment of £75 in 
recognition of the poor service and in the circumstances, Im satisfied that this sum is a fair 
and reasonable amount to compensate Miss H and Mr P for the distress and inconvenience 
they suffered in this situation.
Putting things right
AWP needs to do the following:
Reconsider the claim on the basis the costs for the hotel and ferry bookings are 
considered irrecoverable. 
Pay £75 to Miss H and Mr P in recognition of the delays in handling their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint.
AWP P&C SA must put things right as detailed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman