DRN-3726705
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mr F holds with Bank of Scotland Plc trading as 
Birmingham Midshires (BM). The mortgage is secured on a leasehold property he owns. 
Hes unhappy about a series of litigation fees that BM debited to his mortgage. The fees 
were incurred by a firm of solicitors instructed by BM to advise it and protect its interests in 
connection with legal action brought against Mr F by his freeholder.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr F and BM. Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, which has been shared with Mr 
F and BM, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr F being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the following conclusions.
The fees in question were incurred by a firm of solicitors, which was acting for BM. The firm 
invoiced BM, BM paid the firms invoices and debited the cost to Mr Fs mortgage account. 
This means Mr Fs dispute is with BM, not with the firm of solicitors, which was BMs agent.
My starting point here is that the mortgage contract permits BM to debit litigation and other 
related fees and charges to the mortgage account, on the general proviso that the fees must 
be fairly charged in the circumstances and reasonable in quantum. 
The first step to decide is should the charges have been debited at all?
BMs position is that Mr Fs freeholder was taking legal action to revoke his lease due to 
alleged breaches in the form of unauthorised letting to multiple occupants. Mr F has denied 
this, but its not for me to decide if the freeholders case had merit or if the legal action was 
justified. That was a matter solely for the court to decide, and my understanding is that the 
court has found initially for the freeholder. But the mere fact that action was being taken to 
revoke the lease meant that BMs security for the money it had lent Mr F was at risk of being 
forfeit. 
That was enough to justify BM instructing solicitors to protect its interest. So, on the first 
argument of Mr Fs complaint, I cant fairly conclude that the litigation fees were 
fundamentally unnecessary. Ive next considered whether the fees were excessive.
Mr F has on more than one occasion, referred in correspondence with our investigator to his 
being a complex case. I agree with him; up to a point. The dispute between him and his 
landlord is complex, and as Ive said, not something I can determine. Only the court can do 
that. But the dispute is made more complex still by the fact that BM also has a vested 
interest in the outcome, and is fully entitled to protects that interest. 
That complexity justifies the need for BMs solicitors to carry out a lot of work (on BMs 
behalf, not Mr Fs) and to charge accordingly. Ive studied the invoices that BM has received, 
and debited to Mr Fs mortgage. In my view, theyre not disproportionately high, given the 
nature of the case.
In summary, whilst Mr Fs dispute with his freeholder may be complex, his dispute with BM is 
very simple. The fees he is challenging were fairly and legitimately debited to his mortgage 
and reasonable in quantum. 
In essence, even though he might not see it that way, Mr Fs unhappiness with BMs legal 
costs is effectively part of the case between him and his freeholder. If Mr F believes the legal 
action was unwarranted and unjustified, he would need to go back to the court and ask it to 
revisit the proceedings and find in his favour by making an award against his freeholder. As 
part of his case, hed need to argue that such an award should include his freeholder being 
required to indemnify him for the legal costs BM incurred to protects its security. 
To be clear, thats not something Im advising him to do; Im merely explaining thats what 
hed need to do in order to pursue the remedy hes seeking. Mr F might wish to seek legal 
advice of his own before deciding what to do next.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against Bank of Scotland Plc 
trading as Birmingham Midshires. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman