DRN-3856844
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds decision not to meet in 
full a claim he made under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C made a claim to Admiral for damage to his car which he said was caused during a 
storm. Mr C reported hailstone damage to the bodywork of his car. He provided Admiral with 
an estimate for repairs which included replacing the bonnet. 
Before approving the repairs, Admiral arranged for an Independent Assessor (IA) to inspect 
Mr Cs car. The IA said not all of the works quoted on the estimate were for incident related 
damage. After discussing the labour costs and the costs of some materials with the garage 
where Mr Cs car was being held, it reduced the estimated costs Admiral was prepared to 
authorise as incident related damage.
The repairs in dispute were repairs to the bonnet and hinges. While it was accepted that 
there was storm related damage to the bonnet, Admiral didnt accept that other damage to 
the bonnet and the hinges was incident related. So it didnt agree to cover all of the repair 
costs for the bonnet. 
Admiral made a cash in lieu settlement. Mr C complained to Admiral about the settlement as 
he said it wasnt fair. He raised complaints about the way the claim was handled which 
Admiral upheld and paid Mr C £100 compensation. But it didnt uphold his complaint about 
the amount it settled the claim for. 
Unhappy with this, Mr C asked us to look at this complaint. Our Investigator issued three 
views. In the last view, she didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Admiral had provided persuasive reasons as to why it didnt meet the full costs for the 
bonnet and hinges damage. 
Mr C asked us to share information Admiral provided in addition to the engineers report. As 
Mr C provided us with a copy of the engineers report in October 2022, we knew he had 
already seen this. 
We explained to Admiral that we intended to share the comments it made in relation to the 
engineers report under the principle of natural justice. Although Admiral said Mr C would 
need to make a Subject Access Request, this wasnt necessary as he already had a copy of  
the engineer report. So we explained it was only fair Mr C has access to information that 
supports Admirals reasons not to uphold the complaint, which we intend to rely on. The 
Investigator sent the additional information to Mr C and he has had the opportunity to 
provide comments. 
Mr C wants an ombudsman to decide. In summary he says obviously the bonnet wasnt 
securely closed which contributed to opening up during storm conditions. He doesnt believe 
it should matter if the bonnet wasnt fully secure. As hes paid a full premium for 
comprehensive cover, he believes the full costs of the repairs should be met under his claim 
to repair the damage. Mr C feels Admiral is being picky. He says he has never made a claim 
before, and believes this should be taken into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs policy with Admiral - like most standard motor insurance policies - provides indemnity 
for incident related damage under the claim a customer makes. Any damage that isnt 
related to that incident isnt covered. So the options for a customer where there is some 
unrelated damage is for them to either meet the costs of the non incident related damage - 
or make a separate claim. This is why the cause of damage matters. 
I understand Mr C feels strongly that because he has only made one claim in all of the years 
he has been driving, this should make a difference. But we would expect an insurer to treat 
all customers fairly by investigating a claim on its own merits - irrespective of a customers 
claims history - or how long they have been driving for. 
Ive looked at the information Admiral has relied on when deciding that not all of Mr Cs claim 
for repairs to his car should be covered under his claim. 
The estimate Mr C provided from his garage included works that were separate to the claim: 
for example, replacing tyres and carrying out a service. There was hailstone damage to all 
body panels of Mr Cs car. Admiral has accepted indemnity for this damage as incident 
related, caused by a storm.
Mr C told us that while he was driving his car, high winds from the storm caused the bonnet 
to lift up like a sail and bend backwards which led to damage to the hinges and additional 
damage to the bonnet. 
Admiral says this damage to the bonnet and hinges isnt consistent with being caused by 
high winds. It says that a securely fitted bonnet - if caused to lift by strong winds - would 
have caused associated damage to the front windscreen given the force (from the wind) 
needed to lift it. 
Mr C says he believes the bonnet wasnt securely fitted. He doesnt believe it would have 
lifted open if it had been. But Mr C doesnt see why that should make a difference and 
believes Admiral is trying to avoid paying his claim. 
But Admiral has considered the damage presented to it and it doesnt agree that it shows the 
damage being claimed for could have been caused by the lifting of the bonnet if it had been 
securely fitted. This means that any damage caused by the bonnet lifting when not securely 
attached would be excluded in any event. 
Admiral doesnt provide cover for all eventualities and it provides exclusions to the level of 
cover it provides. I understand Mr C believes that because he has comprehensive cover, all 
of his claim should be met. But this isnt correct. 
Admiral has provided the following comments in relation to Mr Cs view that the bonnet and 
hinge damage was caused by strong winds:
For this to happen several other things would have needed to happen first.
The bonnet would have been closed and properly secured so if this happened then it 
would mean the bonnet catch and latch which secures the bonnet would have been 
forced open by the wind. The result of this would have been the catch would have 
been forced past its fixing and forced passed the secondary latch. 
This would have resulted corresponding damage to the bonnet catch, the inner 
bonnet where the catch is attached and to the front panel into which the catch sits. 
None of these fixings were damaged in any way: also there is no damage to either the inner bonnet or front panel which would have had to have been damaged in this 
scenario, so observation is how is this possible, in my view it is not.
Even if you accept all this occurred as alleged by the customer then if as reported the 
wind has caused the bonnet to fly open the forces required in this action would have 
caused damage to both the screen and the roof and caused far more damage to the 
bonnet itself. There is no damage at all to the screen or the roof, and only hail 
damage to the bonnet (apart from the unrelated hinge/frame damage).
Mr Cs policy with Admiral says under the heading Damage to your vehicle;
We will not pay;
For pre-accident damage or damage unrelated to the current loss
Taking everything into account, I think Admiral properly considered Mr Cs claim and its 
provided a reasonable response as to why it doesnt agree all of the damage is incident 
related. So I dont think Admiral has treated Mr C unfairly. I think it has settled his claim in 
line with the policy terms.
I understand Mr C doesnt agree, but this means Im not asking Admiral to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman