DRN-3804612
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the length of time it has taken Aviva Insurance Limited to settle 
a claim under his car insurance policy. Hes unhappy with the lack of updates and the impact 
the open claim has had on his premium at subsequent renewal dates. 
What happened
Mr G was involved in an incident with another vehicle in 2019. Aviva on Mr Gs behalf 
instructed solicitors to act as liability was in dispute. The third party involved intended to 
proceed to court to settle the claim. However, in June 2021 the third party withdrew their 
claim just before proceedings were set to begin. So Aviva said it would look to recover its 
costs from the third party - and it seems the third party had told Avivas representatives it 
agreed to do this. 
In October 2021 Mr G complained to Aviva. He said the circumstances of the claim were 
incorrectly recorded on a central database - and because the claim was still open Mr G was 
paying more than he should have for his car insurance at subsequent renewal dates. He 
said he felt that he was doing all of the work to progress the settlement of the claim and 
received conflicting information from Aviva and its solicitors as to what stage the claim was 
at. 
In November 2021 Aviva said it was awaiting the recovery of the outlay of the costs of the 
claim from the third party Insurer (TPI).
Mr G asked is to look at his complaint. In June 2022 our Investigator recommended Aviva do 
the following:
Update the central database to show the claim as a non fault claim and allow Mr Gs 
No Claims Bonus (NCB)
Provide a refund for the additional premium Mr G has paid for insurance since the 
renewal date in 2020 for an open fault claim. 
Pay Mr G £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Aviva caused him. 
Aviva agreed to update the central database and to pay Mr G £150 compensation. But it 
explained that Mr Gs policy with it lapsed in November 2019 - and so it couldnt provide a 
refund of premiums. This would be something Mr Gs current insurer would need to deal with 
once the central database was updated. 
The Investigator passed on the information Aviva provided to Mr G. In response, Mr G said 
he would accept the following in order to resolve his complaint:
confirmation that Aviva has closed the claim and updated the Central Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE) database to show the claim as non-fault. 
Update CUE to show the claim described as the third party hitting his vehicle in the 
rear and not the other way around. 
Provide him with a letter confirming Aviva has carried out the changes for Mr G to 
show to his current insurer. 
Confirmation from this service of actions we are taking to make sure Aviva dont do 
this to other individuals.
Our Investigator misunderstood Mr Gs response and thought hed asked for his complaint 
not to continue. So she closed his complaint. 
There was further back and forth between all parties. Aviva was waiting for Mr Gs 
acceptance of the Investigators view. Mr G was unhappy that he hadnt received 
compensation from Aviva as recommended in the Investigators view. So he asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Gs frustration as he has been paying a higher premium for his car 
insurance due to there being an open claim. However, when liability is in dispute these 
claims can take much longer to settle. As it seems the third party intended to proceed to 
court proceedings up until June 2021, I havent seen anything to say Aviva is responsible for 
the claim not closing before then. And it would still take some time after the third partys 
decision to withdraw to obtain Avivas costs from them - as this is down to the third party to 
provide. But its also for Aviva to show that it actively chased the third party for recovery of its 
costs.
Its standard practice in the industry for an open claim to be treated as a fault claim until such 
time as it has been closed. If the claim is closed as a non-fault claim, its for the current 
insurer to provide a suitable backdated refund - in this case - to the date Mr G bought a 
policy with it.
Aviva has provided limited information as to what happened with Mr Gs claim following the 
withdrawal by the third party the day before proceedings were to begin in court in June 2021. 
From the information available it isnt clear that Aviva provided Mr G with reasonable 
updates or that his claim was reviewed regularly with a view to settlement. 
I asked the Investigator to find out from Aviva if the claim was still open - given the time that 
had passed. 
In November 2022 Aviva explained that it hadnt properly followed the process to recover the 
claim costs from the third party since June 2021. So it said it would close the claim on CUE 
as a non-fault claim, allow Mr Gs NCB and update the claim costs to zero - as it now had no 
realistic prospects of recovering the claim costs from the third party. 
As the Investigator explained, it isnt our role to punish a business, but to decide on the 
individual merits of each complaint. So I cannot require Aviva to do things differently to 
protect other customers. 
But I agree with Mr G that his remaining requests to resolve his complaint are reasonable. I 
think from the information available that Aviva hasnt shown it did enough to progress Mr Gs 
claim to a prompt settlement since June 2021 - and so I think it caused unnecessary delay 
here. So I think Aviva should pay Mr G £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused for the delay and poor service it provided. And I think its reasonable 
for Aviva to provide Mr G with a letter confirming the changes it has made to CUE for him to 
show to his current insurer. 
If Mr G is unhappy with the way his current insurer deals with the premium hes paid in light 
of the changes to CUE on Avivas closure of the claim, he can raise a separate complaint 
against them. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
Provide Mr G with a letter confirming the circumstances of the 2019 claim has been 
correctly recorded, as a non-fault claim, his NCB has been allowed, and with no 
claim costs as advised in its email to us dated 3 November 2022.
Pay Mr G £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman