DRN-1234035
Complaint
Mrs O says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
Background
I sent Mrs O and AXA a provisional decision on 10 October 2019 to explain why I wasnt 
intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
AXA has sent us a copy of Mrs Os credit agreement. This included a section on PPI, with a 
space for Mrs O to sign if she wanted to take it out. And Mrs O has signed in the space.
If Mrs O didnt want the PPI, I think she could have left the section blank. So I think AXA 
made it clear to her that she had a choice about the PPI. And that she chose to take it, 
knowing she didnt have to.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs O, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs O got the information she needed to decide if the PPI was right 
for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But the policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than Mrs O says she wouldve 
been entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant she didnt need to rely on her friends and 
family to make her repayments if she wasnt earning. So it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong.
Mrs O says she was suffering from a medical condition at the time. But shes said she didnt 
take medication for it and never had time off work as a result of it. So it appears the condition 
was relatively minor and I think its likely she would still have taken the policy if shed been 
told that any time off work as a result of this condition wouldnt be covered. Mrs O also 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. So I still think it would have been useful to her and I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have out her off taking it out.
I said Id consider any further information Mrs O and AXA sent in.
My findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Os case.
As neither Mrs O nor AXA sent in anything further, I see no reason to change the 
conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. So I still dont think this complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons.My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman