DRN-4234948
The complaint
Mr M complained that Trading 212 UK limited (Trading 212) has closed his account. He said 
there is no plausible justification for this other than to punish him. He said because of this he 
has suffered financial loss.
What happened
Mr M held an account with Trading 212. He was able to trade using this account up to April 
2022. It was at this point that Trading 212 decided to place his account into a close-only 
mode, where Mr M could reduce and close open positions, but couldnt open any new 
positions.
 
Trading 212 then issued Mr M with a 30-day closure notice in April 2022. There was a short 
delay and then after the closure notice had lapsed, Mr Ms account was closed.
  
Mr M said Trading 212 closed his account too punish him for making a complaint to our 
service and to teach him a lesson. He said it is an abuse of power for it to do this. He said 
his mental health has deteriorated and as a such, this is part of the reason why he lost his 
job. He said he is severely suffering financially, all because Trading 212 felt it could do 
whatever it wanted with no consequences. He complained to Trading 212 about all of this.
Trading 212 responded to Mr M and said he had expressed in a previous complaint that he 
had mental health struggles. So, it acted on this information and decided to place the 
account on close only mode. It said it then decided it would be detrimental for Mr M to 
continue as a client and so issued a closure notice. It said it did this based on what Mr M had 
said. It said as a responsible broker it had to consider Mr Ms best interests as part of its 
regulatory obligations.
Mr M was not happy with Trading 212s response and complained to our service. An 
investigator looked into his concerns and did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said based on 
the terms and conditions associated with the account, that Mr M had agreed upon, Trading 
212 had a right to do what it did.
Mr M did not agree with the investigators view and said his decision was not fair nor 
reasonable. Mr M said he failed to investigate the reasons leading up to Trading 212 closing 
his account or that its decision to do so punished him for making a complaint. 
As Mr M is not in agreement with the investigator, his complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld Mr Ms complaint. Here are the reasons why:
Mr M had previously in a separate complaint made to our service expressed that he 
was suffering with mental health issues. Although he had not told Trading 212 
directly about this, it is information that it had become aware of. 
Trading 212 says as a responsible broker it had to consider Mr Ms best interests 
once it was aware of his ongoing mental health issues and to do this was part of its 
regulatory obligations. I agree with what it has said here. Trading 212 did need to 
consider what Mr M had said, once it was made aware and consider his best 
interests. It needed to treat Mr M fairly.
Trading 212 said it considered Mr Ms comments about his health and then decided 
to place his account into a close only mode. It then decided it would be detrimental 
for him to carry on as a client using their services.
Trading 212 has referenced the terms and conditions for Mr Ms account and in 
particular term 28 that describes what its responsibilities are in terminating a client 
agreement. I can see that it says, we reserve the right to immediately place a sell 
only limitation in the following cases: We have reasonable grounds to believe that 
allowing you to continue trading will be detrimental to us, you as a client, other clients 
of us and / or financial markets.
I have reviewed Mr Ms comments that he made in a previous complaint about his 
mental health, and comments he has made in this complaint also. It is clear from 
what Mr M has said that he has had a difficult time and I am sorry to hear this. 
Mr M told our service that he was struggling with mental health issues. Trading 212 
then took the action that I have already outlined and has explained the reasons why it 
did. I can see it has clearly communicated the reasons why with Mr M also. After 
reading Trading 212s explanation and the terms associated with the account, along 
with considering the relevant regulations, I cant see that Trading 212 has acted 
unfairly here. 
Mr M says Trading 212 closed his account to punish him for making a complaint 
about it, but I can find no evidence that it set out to do this. Instead, it has explained 
that it made its decision as it felt keeping its services available to Mr M would be 
detrimental to him. It is within its rights as a business to take the action that it did.
Trading 212 has said sorry for delaying the closure of Mr Ms account. It said this has 
not disadvantaged Mr M though and his losses were decreased by the delay. Mr M 
has not complained about this short delay. I can also see that the delay has not 
caused Mr M any detriment either, so I dont feel I need to make any comment about 
this. 
In summary, I dont think Trading 212 has done anything wrong when it acted to close Mr 
Ms account. So, it follows that I do not uphold his complaint.   
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman