DRN-3270256
Complaint
Mrs S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says were misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In April 2016, Mrs S was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk about 
purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mrs S decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In July 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mrs Ss behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mrs S to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £10,902 but when the interest was 
added the total cost was actually £21,068.20; and
the system would provide a significant reduction in her electricity bills; and
the system would be self-funding; and
the financial benefits provided by the system including the feed in tariff (FIT) would 
provide enough income to cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mrs S or that there were 
any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. But it did offer to pay £200 compensation for 
the delays in complaint handling. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
The CMC did not feel there was any definitive confirmation that the information 
contained in the sales document was ever provided to their client, 
The CMC felt no weight had been given to evidence not contained in the sales 
document, as well as any contradictory evidence provided in the sales document, 
that the CMC says was used to persuade Mrs S to continue with the purchase,
The CMC reiterated that their client relied on the oral representations made by P 
when she decided to proceed, and that it was irrelevant that she could have 
determined that the representations were false by examining the documentation.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs S could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs S and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mrs Ss recollection of the sale.
The representative continues to question whether the quotation document formed central 
part of the sales process with P, when Mrs S agreed to enter into the contract for the system. 
I can see this document was signed By Mrs S multiple times confirming shed had a chance 
to read through the document. Ive also considered what we know about Ps sales practices 
more generally. While I have carefully considered the points made by the representative 
along with those made by Shawbrook on behalf of P, having done so, I remain satisfied that 
the quotation did form a central part of the sales process when Mrs S agreed to enter into 
the contract. So, I think that its likely she was given the information contained in the sales 
documents. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.Cost of the system
The loan agreement clearly sets out that the cash price of the goods.
Mrs S has said that the cost of the system was documented as £10,902. She has indicated 
that this was done to mislead her as this figure did not include any interest associated with 
the loan so hid the true cost of the system, £21,068.20.
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Mrs S makes it clear that the cost of the system is 
£11,002. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash price of the 
system was £11,002, the total amount of credit is £10,902 (less a deposit of £100) and goes 
on to show that the total amount payable would be £21,068.20 including interest.
And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £11,002, it would cost 
Mrs S more than this as she had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan.
Financial Benefits 
Mrs S has alleged that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the financial benefits of the system including the FIT payments. Ive considered 
the quote that was provided by P and considered whether this supports what Mrs S has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs S could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs S could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £293.33.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs S could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £410.10 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mrs S the combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£1,186.79. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months because this 
is the length of the loan that Mrs S entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan 
as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £116.49. For each year of the 15-year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £116.49, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs S could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. The 
table above clearly sets out that, the overall income she could expect to receive by way of 
FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the 
monthly loan repayments. Mrs S has signed immediately beneath this section. 
Overall, Im not satisfied that she was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the financial benefits of the system. 
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs S that the system would be self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mrs S was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. 
The estimated performance page of the quote has a table detailing the performance over 30 
years. This shows that by year 13 the overall benefits that Mrs S could expect to receive 
would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs S that the system would pay for itself by 
year 13, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs S. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3511.84 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mrs S FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 3839.94 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so Im 
satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
that explains why she hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. Based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to 
have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs S couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs S entered into the contract.
Summary
Id like to clarify that while I have focussed on the main complaint points to address in my 
decision, Id like to reassure The CMC and Mrs S that I have considered all the evidence 
submitted including Mrs Ss testimony.
But having carefully considered all the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs S to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
If Mrs S wishes to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for delays in complaint 
handling, she should let Shawbrook know. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman