DRN-1272603
 
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the decision by Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) to pay out 
for a third party (TP) claim which he believes was made fraudulently. 
What happened
Mr S had a car insurance policy with Calpe, which included Mr S brother as a named driver. 
Mr S policy had an excess as £3,000. Mr S insurance document explained:
Excess means the amount you must pay towards any claim including costs. You are 
responsible for the Excess even if the incident is not Your fault
If there is a dispute between the Underwriters and the Policyholder, the settlement of the 
claim shall be as if it were made with the agreement of the Policyholder, regardless that such 
settlement may be made without admission of liability
In June 2019 Calpe received notification of a third party claim against Mr S policy. The Third 
Party Insurer (TPI) claimed that Mr S vehicle had caused damage to the rear of the TPs 
car. The TP said that their car was parked unattended when the accident happened, and 
that an independent witness had notified the TP, and provided a photo of Mr S car. 
Mr S checked with his brother, and confirmed to Calpe that neither of them were responsible 
for the TPs claim. 
Calpe arranged for an independent engineer to assess Mr S car. The engineer found:
the following damage which could be related to the incident under review: There is 
evidence of light scuffs to the left front bumper which could be consistent with the PH 
coming into contact with a rough surface at some point.
Based on the evidence available to us we find no evidence to suggest that this 
vehicle was involved in the incident as described. If a collision has taken place we 
would suggest that it would have been at a very low speed which left no lasting 
evidence of damage to the vehicle. 
We would therefore suggest we are given the opportunity to inspect the t/p vehicle in 
order to compare and comment as to whether there are any consistency to the 
allegation made.
 
Calpe appointed a claims investigator who interviewed both Mr S and his brother. The claims 
investigator commented that we would therefore recommend corresponding with the third 
party and his representatives and requesting a description of the alleged insured driver. We 
believe this will assist in determining whether they were involved given our comments 
relating to credibility.
Calpe decided to settle the claim with the third party insurer without admission of liability. Mr 
S was informed of this outcome and told it was based on the witness statement and photo of [Mr S] vehicle at the scene. Mr S complained to Calpe about its decision to settle the TPs 
claim, saying that there wasnt evidence of his car being involved as described by the TP. 
Calpe didnt agree with Mr S, and so didnt offer any compensation.
The investigator found that Calpe hadnt acted fairly in its investigation of the claim. The 
investigator said that Calpe shouldve done more to investigate the engineers comments 
about the damage, and contact the independent witness who had placed Mr S car at the 
scene of the accident, before paying out. Because of this, the investigator recommended 
Calpe remove the claim from Mr S record, and stop chasing him for payment of the claim 
excess. 
Calpe disagreed with the investigators findings saying that it had done enough to investigate 
the claim, and it was reasonable for it to have settled it on best terms. Calpe commented that 
there was no reasonable prospect of defending the claim in Court, and its decision to settle 
the claim was in line with Mr S policy. As the complaint couldnt be resolved its been 
passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we investigate a complaint about an insurers decision on a claim, our role is to 
consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. 
Its not the role of this service to determine how a Court wouldve determined liability. Its not 
certain what a Court wouldve decided if the claim had been taken further and defended by 
Calpe. However, I think its fair to say that Calpe didnt carry out a full and proper 
investigation before reaching a decision to settle the claim. 
The evidence shows that the independent engineer instructed by Calpe found no evidence 
to suggest that this vehicle was involved in the incident as described. The engineer also 
suggested being given the opportunity to inspect the TPs vehicle in order to compare and 
comment as to whether there are any consistency to the allegation made. Its apparent from 
this that the engineer suggested taking further steps to investigate, and provide informed 
findings about the TPs allegations. I think Calpe shouldve done more to contact the TPI, 
and arrange for this to happen. 
Calpe knew the details of the claim were disputed. Mr S denied any involvement, and the 
engineers report, whilst referring to light scuffs also recommended further steps to verify 
what the TP had described as damage to their vehicle caused by Mr S. The engineer 
instructed by Calpe couldve clarified this at little cost. I cant see that any steps were taken 
by Calpe to investigate the engineers findings. I dont think this was reasonable. Given the 
value of the claim paid to the TP, and that Mr S was responsible for the excess of £3,000 
payable, I think there was a responsibility on Calpe to ensure that a fair investigation was 
carried out before any decision to settle was made. 
The claims investigator also recommended investigating the claim further through discussion 
with the TP. I accept that ultimately the decision to defend, or settle the claim was with Calpe 
to make. However there are two examples here of independent experts, instructed by Calpe, 
saying that the TPs claim needed further investigation. Whilst theres no dispute that Mr S 
wouldve risked incurring additional costs with further investigation, I think there was a 
responsibility on Calpe to ensure that this was carried, given the suggestions by the 
independent experts. Calpe has relied on an independent witness statement saying that it had seen Mr S car 
cause damage to the TPs car. The TP also provided a photo of Mr S car, in what they 
described as the scene of the accident. But theres no evidence to link this photo to the 
accident described by the TP witness. Its evident that the photo shows Mr S car. The photo 
also appears to be taken at a junction where Mr S car is indicating left. The TP witness 
statement described the circumstances of the accident as taking place when the TPs car 
was parked. I think Calpe couldve done more to question the witness on what had 
happened, and at which point the photo was taken. Especially as this appears to be one of 
the two key parts of evidence relied on by Calpe in support of its decision to settle the claim. 
Its not for this service to determine what weight may have been placed on any evidence, but 
I think Calpes lack of investigation of the engineers findings, and the TPs independent 
witness, was poor. 
Calpe say there was no reasonable prospect of defending the claim. However at the time of 
making a decision to settle the claim, I dont think Calpe had done enough to investigate the 
TPs allegations. There were two independent experts, the engineer and the claim 
investigator, that had suggested further steps which wouldve helped clarify what had 
happened. By choosing to settle the claim instead of following the suggested steps of the 
independent experts, I dont think its fair for Calpe to rely on the claim not having a 
reasonable prospect of success at the time of making its decision to settle it. 
Given the uncertainties surrounding what may have happened if the case had been properly 
considered by Calpe, I think a fair outcome for this complaint should reflect the fact that 
Calpe shouldve undertaken a more in-depth investigation before agreeing to pay the claim. 
Given the evidence provided by the independent experts, I think theres enough here to say 
that the outcome of the claim may have been different if the follow-up steps had been taken.
With these considerations in mind, I think a fair outcome is for Calpe to record Mr S claim as 
bonus allowed. I dont think its fair that Mr S should have a fault claim showing against his 
policy when Calpe didnt do enough to fairly investigate the TPs claim. Mr S had a £3,000 
excess on his policy. I cant say what the outcome of Mr S claim wouldve been if it had 
been defended by Calpe. But because Calpe didnt do enough to fully investigate the claim, 
and Im asking it to treat the claim as bonus allowed, I think it shouldnt pursue Mr S for any 
settlement costs in respect of this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint. 
Calpe Insurance Company Limited should remove the accident from Mr S policy record, and 
not pursue Mr S for any settlement costs in respect of the claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2020.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman