DRN-3767427
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) has recorded a missed 
payment on her credit file when she wasnt sent account statements by it.
What happened
Mrs M says she missed making her October 2021 credit card payment as M&S had stopped 
sending her account statements. She says she didnt receive about four statements before 
the October 2021 payment was due and says she hardly used the account card. Mrs M says 
she paid the bill as soon as she realised she had missed the deadline but says it is unfair to 
record adverse information on her credit file in these circumstances. She says M&S has 
offered her £25 which doesnt make any sense when it also says it hasnt made a mistake. 
Mrs M would like any adverse information removed from her credit file.
M&S says it hasnt made a mistake and has no record of Mrs M telling it she was not 
receiving her statements before the missed payment. It says Mrs M ought to have known 
she used her account card to make purchases and it was up to her to make the payment. 
M&S says it offered £25 but says it has a duty to report accurate information to the Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs). It says it doesnt have a record of any mail to Mrs M being 
returned and says statements were sent to her.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought the statement was sent and that Mrs M didnt make the required 
payment. The investigator thought M&S was entitled to report that information to the CRAs 
in line with account terms and conditions.
Mrs M doesnt accept that view and in summary says we havent looked at the potential 
fraud issue and questions what evidence there is that M&S sent the statement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly she feels 
about what has taken place. I make clear to Mrs M that I do not intend commenting on the 
complaint arears about a potential fraud that M&S has yet to investigate and confirm I have 
read all of Mrs Ms detailed submissions to us. But only intend commenting on what I 
consider to be the main parts of this complaint.
I have looked carefully at M&Ss records that show that Mrs M ought to have received 
account statements by post. Im satisfied that Mrs M did receive statements in the past and I 
would have expected her to have told M&S if there was an issue with her receiving the 
statements. I can see that M&S has told us it has no record of returned correspondence sent 
to Mrs M and I am sure she appreciates that M&S isnt responsible for the safe delivery of 
the mail. I also make clear to Mrs M that I do not think the business that does deliver the mail 
is acting as an agent for M&S as she suggests. So, I cant fairly hold M&S responsible for 
Mrs M not receiving the account statements. I have no reason to conclude they were not 
sent and think that the onus would be on Mrs M to tell M&S there was a problem as it likely 
she would have known about it, whereas M&S would not, unless mail was returned to it.
I appreciate Mrs M says she rarely used the account card. But having looked at M&Ss 
records I can see there were about nine transactions between September 2021 and October 
2021. In those circumstances I would have reasonably expected Mrs M to have known she 
used her account card on those occasions and known that a payment would have been due 
in respect of the earlier transactions. I find this was Mrs Ms account and her responsibility to 
manage it by making payments on time. Im satisfied that Mrs M didnt make a required 
payment and so M&S was entitled in line with account terms and conditions to charge a fee. 
Im also satisfied that M&S has regulatory duties to report accurate information about its 
customers accounts to the CRAs. So, I dont think M&S made a mistake by reporting the 
missed payment on Mrs Ms credit file and would have expected Mrs M to have asked M&S 
when a payment was due even if she hadnt received the statement when the account had 
been used on a number of occasions. I also think the statement payment date appears not 
to have changed and that Mrs M appears to have made payments on time in the past.
I do not understand why M&S paid £25 compensation in circumstances where it doesnt 
accept it made a mistake. I appreciate why Mrs M didnt want to accept that offer and agree 
with her that it makes little sense in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, I find this was Mrs Ms account and her responsibility to manage it. I dont think M&S 
made a mistake by reporting the late payment to the CRAs and so it follows that I cant fairly 
order it to remove that information from Mrs Ms credit file. This now brings an end to what 
we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do. I appreciate Mrs M may have 
unanswered questions that this service cant help her with.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman