DRN-3616410
The complaint
Mr C complains about a delay when transferring money into his Scottish Widows Limited 
Stakeholder pension.  
What happened
On 1 December 2021, Mr C tried to make a £40 payment into his Stakeholder pension by 
bank transfer but it took longer than the six days Prudential advertised on its website for it to 
be allocated to his pension. Mr C complained to Scottish Widows about the delay. And when 
he spoke to Scottish Widows on 17 December 2021, he was given inaccurate information 
about the payment methods available to him when making contributions to his pension.
In its final response to the complaint, dated 30 December 2021, Scottish Widows said that 
when Mr M made his payment online, there was no reference number attached so it was 
initially unable to identify where the payment should be allocated. But the payment had now 
been allocated and backdated to 1 December 2021. It apologised for giving Mr C incorrect 
information on 17 December 2021. Scottish Widows agreed the service it provided had fallen 
below its standards, so offered Mr C £50 to apologise.
Unhappy with this response, Mr C referred his complaint to our Service. One of our 
Investigators reviewed Mr Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. He said Scottish Widows had 
now ensured Mr C suffered no financial loss from the delay as it applied the £40 payment as 
if it were allocated on 1 December 2021. Our investigator thought Scottish Widows offer of 
£50 fairly compensated Mr C for the trouble and upset caused. Mr C asked for an 
Ombudsman to review his complaint, reiterating Scottish Widows provided him with poor 
service. So, this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld for the same reasons as our 
Investigator.
Its not in dispute that Scottish Widows delayed applying Mr Cs £40 payment to his pension. 
But as its since applied the payment as if it were allocated on 1 December 2021, the day the 
payment was made, then Mr C hasnt been caused any financial loss.
Scottish Widows has also accepted the delay caused Mr C inconvenience. It also accepted it 
gave Mr C incorrect information about the payment methods available when making 
contributions to his plan. But it seems to have corrected this mistake reasonably quickly. I 
acknowledge Mr C has been caused inconvenience, but Scottish Widows fixed this mistake 
relatively quickly. Overall, I think Scottish Widows apology and the £50 compensation 
offered in its final response of 30 December 2021 fairly recognises the inconvenience it 
caused Mr C.
I note Mr C wants Scottish Widows to improve its payment processing, customer 
communication and live chat feature and display Key Features documents on its online 
facilities. But the Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution service  
we are not the regulator. I dont have the power to direct Scottish Widows to change its 
processes or ensure it improves the service it offers its customers. So, whilst I understand 
Mr Cs frustration with Scottish Widows, Im not able to make any finding about these 
aspects of his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman