DRN-4225625
The complaint
Mr T complains American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) didnt explain why they 
were closing his charge card account and refused to refund his £3,400 joining fee.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator for these reasons:
Mr Ts account underwent a credit review approximately three months after it was 
opened. Following this review, AESEL decided to close Mr Ts account, and informed 
him of the same in early March 2023. Its not unusual for a business, like AESEL, to 
review accounts of their customers. This can be done for several reasons, such as to 
ensure the account is still affordable for their customer or to ensure the 
circumstances of the account still meet the business appetite risk. So, I dont think 
AESEL acted unreasonably or unfairly by reviewing the account. However, given 
Mr Ts account was reviewed and closed within a matter of months after opening, it 
did bring into question the checks AESEL carried out before opening this account. 
Given the joining fee this account attracts (and that Mr T has complained about) 
I needed to be confident AESEL treated Mr T fairly when they agreed to open his 
account.
AESEL has confirmed they relied on what Mr T had told them about his income, and 
their knowledge of his management of other accounts he held with them before 
deciding to offer him the charge card complained about. However, given Mr T was 
applying for card without a pre-set spending limit, I dont consider the checks AESEL 
carried out were sufficient. I say this because I would have expected a responsible 
lender to at least be somewhat aware of any other borrowing Mr T had - that way 
they could more accurately determine whether this account would be affordable and 
sustainable for him.
As a starting point, I consider AESEL should have checked with credit referencing 
agencies to get a better understanding of Mr Ts other borrowing (if any) and how he 
was managing external accounts. Ive seen a copy of Mr Ts credit report and the 
only negative marker was a recent missed payment on another one of his AESEL 
accounts, but it was quickly brought up to date. Had AESEL seen this at the time of 
making its lending decision, I dont consider this information ought to have made 
them think additional checks were necessary. 
It has now come to light the information Mr T provided about his income during the 
application process wasnt correct. During the credit review in February 2023, he told 
AESEL that he stopped receiving an income around the time he applied for the 
account and was living off his savings. But I cant fairly say that AESEL ought 
reasonably to have been aware that was the case when making their lending 
decision - even if theyd reviewed his credit report. So, its for that reason I dont 
consider they treated Mr T unfairly by opening his charge card account.
I appreciate Mr T is disappointed his account was closed. But even had AESEL 
carried out the checks Ive explained above, I dont consider they could have 
prevented the situation Mr T has now found himself in regarding this account. The 
February credit review brought to light new information that meant AESEL felt they 
could no longer continue their relationship with him. The terms and conditions of the 
account explain AESEL isnt obligated to provide a reason if they decide to close an 
account. However, it does give examples of the circumstances that could result in 
them deciding to close a customers account, and having reviewed the information 
from both parties, I cant see that they acted outside the terms and conditions of 
Mr Ts account.
Given Im satisfied AESEL didnt do the wrong thing in opening the account (based 
on the reasonable information they ought to have considered), it was fair for them to 
charge Mr T the applicable joining fee of £3,400. Information about this fee is detailed 
on the second page of the terms and conditions booklet for Mr Ts account and 
explains that it is non-refundable. Ive seen Mr T was provided with a copy of the 
terms and conditions before submitting his application, so he had access to this 
information before the account was opened. This means Mr T ought to have been 
aware the fee was non-refundable before agreeing to open the account  and before 
paying it. Its for this reason, I cant agree AESEL acted unreasonably by not 
refunding the joining fee.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr T hoped for. But for the reasons above, Im not upholding 
his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint about American Express 
Services Europe Limited (AESEL).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman