DRN-1854828
The complaint
Mr C complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mr C was given three loans by Lending Stream between November 2016 and March 2017. 
Each loan was due to be repaid in six monthly instalments and the later loans were taken 
before the previous loans had been repaid. So by the end Mr C had three loans outstanding 
at the same time. Shortly after taking the final loan Mr C started to have problems making his 
repayments. And although the first loan has now been repaid, a balance remained 
outstanding on the last two loans when Mr C made his complaint. A summary of Mr C's 
borrowing from Lending Stream is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 17/11/2016 25/03/2019 £  150
2 11/02/2017 - £  550
3 20/03/2017 - £  200
 
Mr C's complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didn't think it had been 
wrong for Lending Stream to give these loans to Mr C. So she didn't recommend that the 
complaint be upheld.
Mr C didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream did some checks before it lent to Mr C. It asked him for details of his 
income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before agreeing the loans. 
Although the checks show that Mr C's finances had deteriorated a little between loans 2 
and 3, on balance I dont think they showed enough to cause any significant concerns to 
Lending Stream.
Generally, the information a consumer might see, when they request a copy of their credit 
file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a small portion 
of the credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up 
to date. So, this may explain any differences between the information provided by Lending 
Stream's credit check and the information Mr C thinks it should have seen.
I think that the checks Lending Stream did before agreeing each of the loans were 
proportionate. The amounts that Mr C needed to repay were small compared with the 
disposable income hed declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent 
about Mr Cs circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to ask him for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing 
the loans. 
I've carefully considered that Mr C hadn't repaid his earlier borrowing before being given 
another loan. And when I've looked at the repayments he needed to make I've considered 
the total amount he needed to pay Lending Stream each month across all his open loans. 
I agree that taking multiple loans might be an indicator that a consumer's finances were 
under pressure, and they were needing to borrow further to repay earlier loans. But here, on 
balance, I don't think that pattern had yet become so clear that I would have expected 
Lending Stream to do more checks, or stop lending to Mr C entirely.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr C. He has told us about the great 
pressure his finances were under at the time, and that pressure is evident from the bank 
statements he has provided to us. But those problems weren't something that he told 
Lending Stream about at the time he asked for the loans. And I don't think they should have 
been identified from the proportionate checks that the lender carried out. So I don't think it is 
fair to conclude that Lending Stream shouldn't have given these loans to Mr C. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Gain Credit LLC. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman