DRN-4531838
The complaint
Mrs and Mrs P complain that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax didnt do enough to 
protect them from the financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help 
them recover the money once theyd reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mrs P received a message on Whatsapp from someone who Ill refer to as the scammer. 
The scammer explained she had Mrs Ps details from when shed previously registered her 
interest and asked if she was interested in a part-time remote job opportunity. She said she 
could earn £500 to £1,000 per week by conducting product reviews for a company Ill refer to 
as N, explaining she would have to purchase the tasks by topping up her account with 
cryptocurrency.
Mrs P googled N and could see it was a legitimate company with a genuine website, so she 
decided to go ahead. The scammer told her to first purchase cryptocurrency through a 
cryptocurrency exchange company Ill refer to as B and then load it onto an online wallet so 
she could top up her account from there. Between 20 October 2022 and 1 December 2022, 
she made 25 payments to B totalling £52,759 using a debit card connected to her Halifax 
account. She also made fifteen faster payments to another account in her name which 
totalled £8,021.
Mrs P could see the product reviews related to products on Ns website and she kept in 
touch with the scammer via WhatsApp and through an online portal. She was able to 
withdraw £60 and £188, which she put straight back into the platform, and she found the 
customer service department professional and helpful. But when she had completed 40 
reviews, she tried to make a withdrawal and was told she didnt have enough credit and 
would need to make further payments, at which point she realised shed been scammed.
Mr and Mrs P contacted Halifax with the assistance of a representative who argued it should 
have intervened and stopped the payments as they were linked to cryptocurrency. But 
Halifax said there was nothing it could do as Mrs P had authorised the payments and they 
werent covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code as they were sent 
to accounts in Mrs Ps name.
It said the debit card payments started off in small amounts and started to increase. It had 
contacted Mrs P on more than one occasion when she confirmed she was making the 
payments, shed had previous dealings with B in June 2022, she was paying an account in 
her name, and the payments were in line with other activity from the account, so there was 
no cause for concern. It also said it had provided scam information including asking Mrs P to 
visit its website to keep up to date with scam information, which she chose not to do.
Ms P wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service with the assistance of a 
representative. The representative said Mrs P had never purchased cryptocurrency before, 
so the payments should have been concerning. They said that before the disputed 
payments, the largest payment was £3,500 for ground rent for a static caravan, and the 
account was otherwise used for bills, day to day shopping and savings. And her only income 
was her pension which was £700 per month.
They explained Mrs P was funding the payments by making very large transfers from an 
account in her own name, and on 21 November she moved £27,000 into the account, before 
sending almost all of it all out again, which is consistent with known scam behaviour.
They said Halifax should have contacted Mrs P and asked why she was making the 
payments and that she would have told it she was making the payments for a job. With that 
information it would have been able to identify this was a scam and provide specific 
warnings regarding cryptocurrency scams and advice on how she could protect herself. 
Halifax said Mrs P could have done more to protect herself from the scam by conducting 
more checks. It said she wasnt given a contract or other employment documents and she 
didnt ask why she was being asked to pay money as part of the job opportunity. She was 
also communicating with the scammer via WhatsApp and the expected returns were 
unrealistic.
It said it blocked a payment on 9 November 2022, but it reviewed the activity and removed 
the block without speaking to Mrs P. On 11 November 2022, she contacted it claiming she 
didn't recognise any of the payments to B or the internal transfers into her account. And on 
12 November 2022, she called again stating shed been scammed and she was advised by 
the disputes team to contact B. It said payments were also blocked on 17 November 2022, 
but the blocks were removed after Mrs P confirmed the payments were genuine. And on 20 
November 2022, Mrs P told the truth about the payments and was again told to contact B. 
The rest of the payments were made with no intervention.
It said Mrs P was dishonest on 11 November 2022 and on 12 November 2022, she told it 
shed been scammed but went on to make more payments. So, even if it had questioned her 
further and given her scam education, its unlikely shed have told it the real reason for 
making the payments and she would probably have continued to make the payments.
My provisional findings
I explained the CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims 
of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr and Mrs P says theyve fallen 
victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Halifax had said the CRM code didnt 
apply in this case because the faster payments were to an account in Mrs Ps own name and 
I was satisfied thats fair. Its also correct that the CRM code doesnt apply to debit card 
payments.
I also thought about whether Halifax could have done more to recover the card payments 
when they reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it 
will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be 
resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the 
scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in 
such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to 
determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Halifax) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mrs P).
Mrs Ps own testimony supports that she used a cryptocurrency exchange to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchange would have been able to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mrs Ps payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that Halifaxs decision not to raise a 
chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange companies was fair.
I was satisfied Mrs P authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of her bank account, Mrs P is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
I explained its not in dispute that this was a scam, but although she didnt intend her money 
to go to scammers, she did authorise the disputed payments. Halifax is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer 
has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to 
reimburse them even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
I thought about whether Halifax could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Id seen, the 
payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, Halifax 
had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider 
scam, so I needed to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mrs P when she 
tried to make the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id 
expect Halifax to intervene with a view to protecting Mrs P from financial harm due to fraud.
Payments 1 to 13 were processed without any intervention from Halifax. I considered the 
nature of the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of 
how Mr and Mrs P normally ran the account, and I didnt think they were. All the payments 
were to legitimate cryptocurrency exchange that Mrs P had paid before and none of them 
were for particularly large amounts. So, I didnt think Halifax missed an opportunity to 
intervene.
On 9 November 2022, Mrs P paid £3,455 to B, and the payment was blocked, but released 
without a call to Mrs P. I considered whether this intervention was appropriate and based on 
the fact Mrs P had made payments to this payee on thirteen previous occasions, even 
though it was higher than the previous payments, I didnt think it was unreasonable for 
Halifax to have released it without contacting Mrs P.
The next interaction took place on 11 November 2022 when Mrs P called to tell Halifax she 
didnt recognise any of the payments to B dating back to June 2022, including the two 
pending payments of £15,750 and £7,381. She also said she hadnt made the large transfers 
into the account. I thought about whether the call handler could have done more the detect 
the scam during that call and owing to the fact Mrs P was dishonest, I was satisfied there 
was nothing the call handler could reasonably have said or done to detect the scam or to 
provide an effective warning at that point.
On 12 November 2022, Mrs P contacted Halifax again to discuss the payments of £15,750 
and £7,380 shed made the previous day. This time, she said shed been scammed and the 
call handler put her through to the disputes team who said Halifax couldnt raise a claim on 
the payments and she would need to contact B.
Halifax hadnt produced a recording of the call Mrs P had with the disputes team, but, based 
on its description of what took place during the call, I thought it missed an opportunity to 
have prevented her loss. This is because I didnt think telling her to contact B was a sufficiently robust response and it should have done more. It had a number of options 
including providing a robust scam warning, advice on additional due diligence and blocking 
payments to B, and I thought its failure to do this represented a missed opportunity to have 
prevented further loss.
Our investigator had said that because Mrs P misled Halifax on 11 November 2022, he 
thought she would have still misled it if it had intervened sooner. But I hadnt seen any 
evidence that she was dishonest on 12 November 2022, and she provided a lot of 
information about the scam on 17 November 2022 (when again she was told to contact B), 
so I thought she would have been open about the circumstances if properly questioned.
It had also been suggested that Mrs P would have continued to make payments to the scam 
because there are payments to B after the date she first contacted her representative. But 
she had explained those payments were made in relation to a recovery scam and I was 
satisfied that explanation is plausible.
Based on Halifaxs description of what took place when Mrs P was passed to the disputes 
team and the fact she went on to make further payments to the scam, I wasn satisfied it had 
shown that it did enough when she contacted it on 12 November 2022 to tell it shed been 
scammed. And because of this, I thought Halifax missed an opportunity to have prevented 
Mrs Ps loss and so I was minded to direct it to refund the payments Mrs P made after that 
point.
Contributory negligence
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions and 
conduct suitable due diligence, but these types of scams can be very sophisticated and Mrs 
P had received two withdrawals quite early on. However, this isnt an excuse for failing to 
take reasonable care that she wasnt dealing with scammers. Mrs P had been contacted out 
of the blue by somebody who promised her £1,000 per week for doing product reviews and 
she didnt ask for any employment documents or question why she was being asked to pay 
for the tasks in cryptocurrency.
Further, I was satisfied she lied to Halifax when she contacted it on 11 November 2022 and 
that if shed been honest on that occasion, the scam could have been prevented sooner.
So, while I thought Halifax should have done more to protect Mrs P, I thought she should 
share some responsibility for the fact she made the payments in circumstances which should 
reasonably have given her cause for concern and without properly checking the job was 
genuine. Because of this I was minded to direct that the settlement should be reduced by 
50% to reflect contributory negligence.
Developments
Both parties have indicated that they are happy to accept my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because both parties have indicated that they are happy to accept my provisional findings, 
the findings in my final decision will be the same as the findings in my provisional decision.My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax should:
Refund the money Mr and Mrs P paid to the scam after the call on 12 November 
2022, less any credits she received after that point.
this settlement should be reduced by 50% to reflect contributory negligence.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
*If Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this 
award it should provide Mr and Mrs P with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman