DRN-2227392
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the questions Automobile Association Insurance Services 
Limited (AA) asked him about his occupation when he called to obtain a quote for a home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R called AA for quote for home insurance. In the call the agent asked Mr R a series of 
questions about his occupation. Mr R complained to AA that the agent tried to coerce him 
into giving a binary answer. Mr R said he works for a number of organisations, both profit 
and non-profit entities. Mr R said he was concerned that their approach might mean a future 
claim would be invalidated because he hadnt given accurate information about his 
occupation. 
Mr R wanted AA to acknowledge they are at fault. He said he chose to buy a policy 
elsewhere. 
AA listened to the key call and said:
People can be charged different rates based on their personal circumstances, such 
as age and occupation, and the level of cover they require. To ensure that the correct 
details were obtained for the quotation the customer service advisor asked questions 
about your voluntary work. Whilst you did confirm that you were doing varied 
voluntary work, you also said it was not accurate to say it was for charity or voluntary 
organisations but did not give any further information on these organisations.
The advisor asked if the work you were doing was for friends and family or 
businesses, you said it was various but provided no additional information on the 
businesses. The advisor then asked you about selecting voluntary worker in the 
community services section and explained that we need to make sure that you were 
happy with how it was recorded.
You then chose not to proceed with the quotation and ended the call.
AA said it was satisfied it acted correctly. So it didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator didnt think AA had acted 
unreasonably. She thought AAs agent was trying her best to ensure Mr Rs circumstances 
were recorded to best match his occupation. She thought it might have helped if Mr R had 
provided more context around the different types of voluntary work he was carrying out. 
Mr R didnt agree. He views it as his responsibility to answer all questions honestly and 
accurately. But he says it isnt his responsibility to understand how AAs systems calculate 
risk. If a binary answer was mandated by their systems, then he believes AA should have 
guided him on how to answer their question from the information he provided. He believes it 
should then have confirmed it would not invalidate any future claim. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the key call. Mr R said he was retired but also does some voluntary work. He 
said he was helping a variety of people, but other work he carried out was normally from his 
professional association. The agent asked whether the organisations were charities or 
voluntary organisations. Mr R said no. The agent explained that she wanted to identify from 
their systems the occupation that most closely matched Mr Rs circumstances. 
I understand Mr R was frustrated by the questions the agent asked. He said he couldnt 
shoehorn his answer for the agent as he worked for various people. But I think the agents 
enquiries were reasonable. I think she was doing her best to gain as much information from 
Mr R to ensure his occupation was accurately recorded and  importantly  that he was in 
agreement with how AA did that. Both parties agreed on the importance of providing 
accurate information.
Our role is to consider whether an insurer or broker had made any errors or acted 
unreasonably. In this case, I dont think AA has. I realise Mr R will be disappointed. But this 
means Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman