DRN-3117873
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society hasnt provided him with a refund under 
the Visa Chargeback scheme, in relation to a timeshare relinquishment service he paid for in 
May 2017. 
Mr M is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
What happened
In May 2017, Mr M paid a company for a timeshare relinquishment service. He paid an initial 
£2,446 using his Nationwide debit card and then the balance by bank transfer from his 
Nationwide account.
Mr Ms representative says that it sent Nationwide a chargeback request in May 2018. 
However, Nationwide says it didnt receive this. Mr Ms representative says it then sent 
Nationwide a chaser letter in August 2018, after it hadnt received a response to the letter 
sent in May. Nationwide says it also didnt receive this letter.
In September 2018, Nationwide wrote to Mr M directly, requesting further information from 
him in support of the Chargeback claim. Nationwide says it wrote to Mr M directly and not to 
the CMC, because it didnt have authority from Mr M to contact the CMC on his behalf. 
In its letter direct to Mr M in September 2018, Nationwide said that any claim would need to 
be raised within 120 days of when the goods or services were due to have been provided.
The CMC says it responded to this information request in a letter to Nationwide dated 2 May 
2018, but which it says it actually sent on 25 February 2019. 
The CMC contacted this Service in March 2019 asking us to look into things. We contacted 
Nationwide to let it know about the complaint and it said it hadnt previously received a 
complaint. 
From the complaint file, I can see that we sent the information containing details of the 
timeshare relinquishment service Mr M had paid for (initially provided to us by the CMC 
when the complaint was referred to us in March 2019) to Nationwide in April 2019.
Some months later, an investigator here gave his initial opinion on the complaint, based on 
the information provided by the CMC. He said, in summary, that he didnt think it was 
unreasonable of Nationwide to have closed the Chargeback claim after it didnt receive a 
response to the letter it sent directly to the consumer in September 2018. 
The CMC disagreed. It said, in summary, that the claim had been initiated within the relevant 
time limits and that Nationwide had made a number of errors, including in relation to the 
payments made by Mr M.
The investigator asked for Nationwides comments. In response, Nationwide provided its file 
in relation to the complaint, which included a final response letter issued to the CMC in May 
2019. 
The investigator subsequently issued another opinion. He said, in summary, that:
- He thought there had been some kind of communication error on both sides and that 
he didnt think the fault lay solely with Nationwide.
- Although the letter from Nationwide to Mr M in September 2018 only referenced one 
of the payments, this could have been queried at the time.
- Whilst the CMC had eventually provided some relevant information to Nationwide, it 
hadnt been provided in time.
The CMC remained unhappy and asked for the matter to be escalated to an ombudsman. It 
said, in summary, that:
- The dispute between the CMC and Nationwide shouldnt prevent this Service from  
making a decision in relation to the misrepresentation Mr M has been a victim of and 
in relation to which he has lost out financially.
- Even if Nationwide didnt receive the information that was sent in time, it wasnt clear 
why Nationwide wasnt now considering the claim.
- The company mentioned in Nationwides letter to Mr M in September 2018, had 
nothing to do with the actual transaction being disputed.
- It is well known that the timeshare relinquishment company and its associates are a 
scam and not in a position to provide the service they had promised.
The case was passed to me to decide. I asked the CMC to clarify the date it had sent a 
particular letter, which is covered in the sequence of events above. 
I asked Nationwide to clarify why it hadnt initiated a chargeback claim after the complaint 
had been referred to us. And what, if anything, was stopping it from still doing so now? I 
pointed out that from the paperwork Id seen in relation to the timeshare relinquishment 
service, it wasnt clear if/when the 120 days it had mentioned, would become relevant.  
It responded to say that by the time it first received the evidence it was seeking in relation to 
the chargeback claim (which it said was September 2019), it was too late to make a claim 
because it was outside of the maximum 540 day period. 
 
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 17 September 2021. In this I said:
From what I can see, Mr M paid for the timeshare relinquishment service in two separate 
transactions  the first using his debit card and the second by way of a bank transfer. Only 
the debit card payment comes under the Chargeback scheme  the bank transfer does not.
The crux of this complaint is that Nationwide didnt deal with the chargeback request 
appropriately. And that Mr M has lost out as a result of this. This is what Ive considered.
In order to uphold this complaint, Id need to be satisfied on balance that Nationwide didnt 
deal with the Chargeback request appropriately and that, had it done so, this would most 
likely have resulted in the Chargeback being successful.
Different Chargeback schemes have different timescales within which claims need to be 
made. Nationwide says that under the relevant Visa scheme, a claim needed to be made 
within 120 days of when the good/services were due to be received and no later than 540 
days after the date of the payment. The CMC says that the Chargeback claim was made within time. By my calculations, the 
date 540 days after the relevant transaction, was 8 November 2018. It is unclear why 
Nationwide didnt receive the letter the CMC says it sent in 2018. However, when Nationwide 
wrote to Mr M directly in September 2018, Mr M was still within the 540 day time limit. So 
there was still time for Mr M to provide the necessary information in order for the 
Chargeback to be initiated. 
The CMC has confirmed that it provided information to Nationwide in response to this 
request, in February 2019. This was outside of the 540 days. 
Ive considered whether it was reasonable for Nationwide to request the information it did in 
its letter to Mr M in September 2018  instead of initiating the Chargeback straight away. 
This is a difficult question to answer because Nationwide no longer has a record of what 
prompted it to write to Mr M. Nor crucially what, if any, information it had from Mr M or his 
representative about the transaction in question, at the point it wrote to Mr M.
In the absence of this, I currently think that it probably was reasonable. The transaction in 
question wasnt for something that could be considered fairly straightforward and 
transactional  like when someone buys an aeroplane ticket and then says the flight was 
cancelled. Here, the dispute related to the provision of a service  where a number of 
different parties were involved in the transaction. 
Ive also thought about the fact that it seems when Nationwide wrote to Mr M directly in 
September 2018, it didnt have Mr Ms authority to engage with the CMC. So this may have  
been another reason why it would have considered it necessary to engage Mr M directly, 
before attempting to initiate a chargeback.
I do though think that Nationwide ought to have mentioned the 540 day time limit as well as 
the 120 day limit, when it wrote to Mr M in September 2018. I say this because the 540 day 
expiry would happen in less than the 120 days Nationwide mentioned. However, Mr M still 
had over two months to provide Nationwide with the information it had requested before the 
540 days were up and the information couldve been provided well within this timeframe. Its 
not clear why information wasnt provided until February 2019. And thinking about the fact 
that the CMC provided the relevant information more than 120 days following Nationwides 
letter to Mr M, I cant reasonably say that its likely the information wouldve been provided in 
time, if the 540 days had been mentioned.  
Nationwide says it didnt receive the relevant information until September 2019. However, I 
dont think thats right. I can see from the case file that we sent the information to Nationwide 
in April 2019. So that is the latest it will have received the information. 
Regardless, based on what the CMC has told us, it didnt respond to the request for 
information made in September 2018, until after the 540 day timeframe had elapsed.
The CMC has pointed out that the transaction/company name mentioned in Nationwides 
letter to Mr M in September 2018 where it requested further information, was different to 
company names it had mentioned and that appear in the relevant sales documentation. 
I dont think this matters. My understanding is that the company name mentioned in 
Nationwides letter to Mr M in September 2018, has some connection to the companies 
mentioned by the CMC and that appear in the relevant sales documentation. And in any 
case, this is something that couldve been challenged by Mr M if he thought it was incorrect 
and/or resolved if the information requested had been provided in time. Taking everything into account, I dont think that Nationwides actions have caused Mr M a 
financial loss. 
The CMC disagreed with my findings. It said, in summary, that:
- It had first raised the claim in May 2018 (within time), providing information that was 
substantial enough for Nationwide to initiate the Chargeback claim at that point. 
- Nationwides own Chargeback guide (which it provided a link to) sets out the steps 
involved. This doesnt specify that the initial claim must take a particular form, nor 
that the time for limitation continues to run while investigation is being carried out.  
- Nationwide cannot simultaneously argue that it didnt receive any of the CMCs 
letters, nor a response to its request for evidence. If Nationwide hadnt received the 
original claim letter and follow up, it would not have known a claim had been raised 
and couldnt have requested further evidence in relation to the claim. 
- The process of seeking further information to progress the claim means that 
Nationwide had begun considering the claim at that point and this was still within 
time.
- Nationwides statement that it didnt receive any information until September 2019 
has proven to be wrong. It is therefore logical that in fact Nationwide received all the 
information from the CMC, as it has set out.
- Nationwide should, at the very least, have continued with the claim when it received 
the CMCs response and this Services request for information, with the relevant 
associated information about the claim. 
Nationwide didnt provide a response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional findings, the CMC has made reference to what it has 
described as Nationwides own Chargeback guide. It says that this guide doesnt specify 
that a Chargeback claim needs to be presented in a particular format to be taken forwards, 
nor that (for the purposes of the time limits that apply) time continues to run if further 
investigation is carried out before it actually makes the Chargeback. 
Ive looked at what the CMC has referred to. The information and associated link it provided 
isnt information hosted by Nationwide. Its an unrelated third party company which appears 
to offer information about how different Chargeback schemes/processes operate. As such, I 
do not find it particularly useful or compelling. 
Regardless, as set out in my provisional findings, Ive needed to consider whether it was 
reasonable for Nationwide to request the information it did in its letter to Mr M in September 
2018  instead of initiating the Chargeback straight away. 
As before, Nationwide no longer has a record of what prompted it to write to Mr M. Nor 
crucially what, if any, information it had from Mr M or his representative about the transaction 
in question, at the point it wrote to Mr M.The CMC has re-iterated that it first sent details of the claim to Nationwide in April 2018 and 
it says that this contained enough information for Nationwide to proceed with the 
Chargeback at that time. The CMC says that when Nationwide wrote to Mr M directly in 
September 2018, this must have been prompted by the original claim letter and the 
subsequent chasing letter in August 2018. 
The CMC also says that Nationwides statement that it didnt receive any information until 
September 2019 has proven to be wrong. And that it is therefore logical to conclude that 
Nationwide received all the information from the CMC, as it has set out.
Since Nationwide didnt respond to my provisional findings, I must take its position as being 
the same i.e. that it says it didnt receive either of the letters sent by the CMC in 2018. 
Although Nationwide says it didnt receive the August 2018 letter from the CMC, given what 
it has said about contacting the consumer directly in September 2018, it is logical that 
Nationwide was responding to some kind of contact from the CMC. And given that the CMCs 
chaser letter was sent in August 2018, it seems most likely to have been this letter that 
prompted Nationwide to contact Mr M. 
In terms of whether Nationwide was in receipt of the original April 2018 letter, it is a 
possibility. But Im not persuaded this is most likely the case. Had Nationwide received the 
April 2018 letter, I think it would most likely have responded to it. Since there is no record of 
it responding to the letter, I think it most likely wasnt received. I understand the point the 
CMC is making about Nationwide saying it didnt receive information in relation to the claim 
until September 2019. However, this doesnt change what I think about whether Nationwide 
did receive the April 2018 letter.  
I still cannot be sure what information Nationwide had about the transaction in question, 
when it wrote to Mr M directly in September 2018. This means that the question of whether it 
was reasonable for Nationwide to request the information it did in its letter to Mr M in 
September 2018  instead of initiating the Chargeback straight away, remains a difficult one 
to answer. 
On balance though, I still find that it was reasonable. As set out in my provisional findings, 
the transaction in question wasnt for something that could be considered straightforward 
and transactional. Here, the dispute related to the provision of a service  where a number of 
different parties were involved in the transaction. 
Also, I set out in my provisional findings it seemed that when Nationwide wrote to Mr M 
directly in September 2018, it didnt have Mr Ms authority to engage with the CMC. I havent 
received any information to suggest otherwise, so I still find this may well have been another 
reason why Nationwide would have considered it necessary to engage Mr M directly, before 
going ahead with the Chargeback.
I still find that Nationwide ought to have mentioned the 540 day time limit as well as the 120 
day limit, when it wrote to Mr M in September 2018. This is because the 540 day expiry 
would happen in less than the 120 days Nationwide mentioned. However, it remains the 
case that Mr M still had over two months to provide Nationwide with the information it had 
requested before the 540 days were up and the information couldve been provided well 
within this timeframe.
It remains unclear why information wasnt provided until February 2019. And thinking about 
the fact that the CMC provided the relevant information more than 120 days following Nationwides letter to Mr M, I still cant reasonably say that its likely the information wouldve 
been provided in time, if the 540 days had been mentioned.  
It remains the case that when the CMC responded to Nationwides information request, it 
was outside of the 540 day time period. 
The CMC has said that it thinks when Nationwide wrote to Mr M in September 2018, this 
should mean that the claim was brought in time. However, the Visa scheme rules are such 
that the time limits apply to an actual claim being made by the card issuer. Nationwide didnt 
make a claim in September 2018  instead asking for further information. And Ive already 
found that Nationwides actions in September 2018, were reasonable.   
Taking everything into account, I still dont think that Nationwides actions have caused Mr M 
a financial loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman