DRN-2940740
The complaint
Mr B complains about the amount of money he has been asked to pay to settle his finance 
agreement with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance 
(BPF).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Im not considering Mr Bs complaint about the quality of the car he hired. Whilst I 
understand Mr Bs view that quality concerns led to problems with payments, unfortunately; 
as the investigator has explained, as he didnt refer those concerns within the required time 
limits we are unable to consider that aspect of his complaint.
I am able to look at his concerns about whether BPF are being reasonable pursuing him for 
the full settlement of his agreement.
I think its clear that BPFs letters to Mr B were misleading. The statements in those letters 
showed the debt as a policy write off with a zero balance.
BPF have explained that was because they were preparing to sell the debt on to a debt 
collection agency and theyve clarified it wasnt their intention to write off the debt.
I think BPF should compensate Mr B for the distress caused by the misleading information it 
supplied, and I think the £50 they offered is sufficient in the circumstances. 
But I dont think they need to zero the balance on the account. I think the debt was due in 
line with the terms of Mr Bs finance agreement with BPF. Those terms explained that:
If you don't make payments when they are due or you miss several payments,
the following may apply.
You may also have to repay the credit early.
Your credit records may be affected in a way that makes it harder or more
expensive to borrow in the future
We may repossess the vehicle sold to you under this agreement
And, as Mr B was significantly in arrears by the time the contract was terminated, I think BPF 
could reasonably rely on those terms.
The terms went on to explain:
If you or we terminate (end) this agreement for any of the reasons set out in this agreement
you must pay us the following 
All repayments, interest and other amounts you owe on the date the agreement
ends.
So, I dont think it would be reasonable to tell BPF to waive the amount due in settlement of 
this agreement.
I understand that Mr B may have difficulty repaying the debt and Id expect BPF to be 
understanding and sympathetic of his situation. They have explained that they would be 
open to discussing repayment options with him and I would encourage Mr B to engage with 
them to see what arrangements can be made. But Im afraid I dont think it would be fair to 
ask BPF to take any further action.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman