DRN-3398122
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt applied payments to his mortgage 
account correctly. He says his overpayment account is short about £1,000.
What happened
Mr B took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2007. He had a ten-year product which ended in 
2017. He says hes been making overpayments each month since then. 
Mr B says his financial circumstances were affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. In early 
2021 he wanted to access the money in his overpayment account. He discovered the 
balance was different from his own calculations by about £1,000. 
Mr B is also unhappy that Barclays transferred about £10 from his mortgage account to his 
home improvement loan account in March 2018. 
Barclays said Mr Bs arrears came about due to a missed payment in early 2016. However, it 
says this came about because it had wrongly told Mr B his account was in credit. Barclays 
offered £200 compensation for the error. Barclays says its able to make transfers between 
mortgage accounts and does so to avoid one account being in arrears when the other has a 
prepayment. 
Our investigator said the account balance wasnt wrong. Our investigator said the £200 
offered by Barclays for giving Mr B incorrect information about his account was fair.
Mr B didnt agree. He said the maths didnt add up. He said Barclays had changed its story 
since it sent its final response letter. It hadnt provided evidence his account had been in 
arrears. And he still felt £1,000 had gone missing from his account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made overpayments since 2017. I can understand that he wants to be sure his 
payments have been properly applied to his account. I agree that it has taken time to get to 
the bottom of what happened. 
Barclays provided internal records which Ive reviewed carefully. I cant provide copies of 
these to Mr B. But Mr B should have received annual mortgage statements which set out the 
payments hes made. 
Mr B missed a contractual monthly payment in January 2016. This resulted in arrears of 
about £1,000. 
Mr B had called Barclays in December 2015. He was told his account was in credit by about 
£870. Mr B made a smaller payment in January 2016 of the difference between the 
contractual monthly payment and the amount hed been told the account was in credit.
However, Barclays had made an error when it told Mr B his account was in credit. The 
account wasnt in credit, it was in arrears of about £163. 
When Mr B made a payment of £163 in January 2016 he cleared these arrears. But because 
he didnt make the contractual monthly payment due in January 2015 his account fell into 
arrears of £1,000. This explains why Mr Bs overpayment balance is about £1,000 less than 
hed expected. 
Mr B asked how the arrears of £163 came about. Barclays says Mr B agreed reduced 
payment arrangements with Barclays during in 2009 and 2010. This meant Mr B paid less 
than the contractual monthly payment. Barclays later increased Mr Bs contractual monthly 
payment by about £10. This was intended to ensure the mortgage was repaid within the 
remaining term, despite the reduced payments in 2009 and 2011. Mr B (who paid by 
standing order) didnt increase his monthly payment until late 2013. He was underpaying by 
about £10 each month during this time. This accrued as arrears on his account. Barclays 
provided evidence to support what it said, and I think this is a fair summary of how the £163 
arrears came about.
Mr B says the later arrears (of about £1,000) came about due to Barclays giving him 
incorrect information. I agree, in that I dont think Mr B would have made the smaller 
payment instead of his contractual monthly payment if Barclays hadnt (wrongly) said his 
account was in credit. Nonetheless, despite the incorrect information, the payment missed in 
January 2016 was due.
The arrears created by the missed payment were made up when Mr B made overpayments. 
This meant that Mr Bs overpayment account balance is lower than hed calculated. But I 
dont think hes suffered a loss. This is because the payment he missed in January 2016 was 
due  this was money he did owe. 
Mr B is also unhappy that Barclays transferred money between his mortgage accounts. 
Mr Bs mortgage has two accounts, the main mortgage and a home improvement loan 
account. This isnt unusual and often comes about when a customer takes out further 
borrowing, such as for home improvements, during the life of the mortgage. Barclays 
transferred about £10 from one account to the other. It said this was to avoid one account 
being in arrears when the other was in overpayment. I cant see that this caused any loss or 
inconvenience to Mr B. 
Putting things right
Barclays caused upset and inconvenience to Mr B as a result of giving him incorrect 
information in late 2015. It offered £200 compensation for this. I think its right that Barclays 
pays compensation. I think Mr B was caused worry that his account balance wasnt right and 
inconvenience in trying to find out what had happened. On the other hand, Mr B wasnt 
aware of the missed payment or arrears until recently. And by the time he knew about the 
arrears theyd been repaid and the account had an overpayment balance. I think in the 
circumstances £200 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £200 to Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman