DRN-2613972
The complaint
This complaints about a re-mortgage Miss A and Miss L arranged on the advice and 
recommendation of Connells Limited. They say that because the advisor used the wrong 
redemption figure with their existing lender, theyve ended up with less money than they 
were expecting. 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been 
sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published and its important that I dont include any information that might result in Miss A 
and Miss L being identified. 
Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words, rounding the figures involved, and then 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Miss A and Miss L were re-mortgaging to raise additional funds for home improvements and 
get a new interest rate. The lender to which they applied via Connells reduced the amount it 
was willing to lend after obtaining a valuation. Then, when it came for the re-mortgage to 
complete, the redemption figure from Miss A and Miss Ls existing lender was higher than 
the figure they and the broker had been working with. This was primarily because the final 
figure included the monthly payment due, which was also paid as normal by direct debit. 
The direct debit amount was returned to Miss A and Miss Ls bank account, but they were 
still left with less money after completion than theyd thought. Connells apologised for not 
having made sure the correct redemption figure was being used, and offered £150 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. When Miss A and Miss L referred their 
complaint to us, our investigator thought Connells offer was fair; Miss A and Miss L asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
We have no regulatory function here; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is more straightforward to resolve that it might appear at first glance; thats 
because its not one where I need to decide fault. Connells has admitted that already, so all 
that leaves for me to decide is whether the proposed settlement is fair. The first observation 
Id make on that is that any fee that Connells may have received from the lender is a 
contractual matter between those parties and isnt a factor in deciding whats fair in the 
dispute between Miss A and Miss L and Connells.
Much of the dialogue between Miss A and Miss L and our investigator has focussed on the 
amount of the shortfall in funds Miss A and Miss L received; they said it was around £2,500; 
Connells said (and our investigator agreed) it was more like £400, after taking account of the 
returned monthly payment. I know this has occupied a lot of thought on all sides, but its not 
the defining point in the outcome of the complaint.
Thats because regardless how much the shortfall eventually was, its not money that was 
ever going to be available to Miss A and Miss L; theyve not been deprived of funds to which 
they were entitled and they havent suffered a financial loss. All they have suffered is a loss 
of expectation. 
I appreciate Miss A and Miss L were expecting a certain amount, to the extent that they hired 
contractors to carry out work in anticipation. But theres always an element of risk in 
committing to expenditure before one actually has the money to pay for it. All things 
considered, I consider Connells offer of £150 to be fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Miss L 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman