DRN-2337532
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (T/A Barclaycard) closed his credit card accounts 
after it incorrectly recorded that hed entered into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA).
What happened
Mr D holds two credit card accounts with Barclaycard. At the end of February 2020, he 
contacted Barclaycard to request an interest free cash transfer to his current account. But it 
informed him that it had closed his accounts in November 2019 as it had recorded that hed 
entered into an IVA.
Mr D didnt receive any communication from Barclaycard prior to it recording that information 
on his accounts. And he explained that he hadnt entered into such an arrangement. He 
therefore asked Barclaycard to reinstate his accounts and remove the adverse information it 
had recorded. But he said the call handlers he spoke with about behaved in a rude and 
dismissive manner towards him.
When Mr D complained to Barclaycard about what had happened it upheld his complaint. It 
accepted it had incorrectly recorded information about him having entered into an IVA on his 
accounts. And it acknowledged that was an error on its part. It therefore reinstated Mr Ds 
accounts, corrected his credit file with Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) and offered to pay 
him £300 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset hed been caused. But Mr D 
rejected that offer and referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator assessed the evidence provided by Mr D and Barclaycard. But they were 
persuaded that the compensation Barclaycard had already offered was fair and reasonable. 
So, they didnt think it needed to do anything further. And they didnt recommend upholding 
this complaint. But Mr D didnt agree with our investigators view. The matters therefore 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I can see Mr D has gone to some 
trouble to provide our service with some detailed submissions. I want to assure him that Ive 
read everything he has sent us. I hope he will understand if I dont address every comment 
hes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider to be key to this 
complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr D experienced. Im not seeking to downplay the 
difficulties or frustrations he had here  far from it.  I understand he feels very strongly about 
the issues raised in this complaint. But Im not going to be able to help him in the way he 
would like. Ill explain why. 
Barclaycard has already accepted it was responsible for incorrectly recording that hed 
entered into an IVA. It accepts this information was wrong. And I can see this led to Mr Ds 
accounts being closed.
Barclaycard has provided an explanation as to how it came to make the error in question. 
And its reassured Mr D that training and feebdack has been provided to the individual 
responsible. I hope this assures Mr D that this error is unlikley to happen again.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Barclaycard has already offered to 
compensate Mr D £300, which it believes addresses the problems he encountered. But he 
feels Barclaycards offer to resolve his complaint doesnt go far enough. So, the issue here is 
whether its acted fairly and reasonably in offering to put things right. In thinking about this, 
Ive considered things from both sides. 
Our service isnt here to punish businesses and, when deciding what potential compensation 
to award, we must take two things into account: financial loss as a result of any business 
error and non-financial loss, including trouble and upset. 
Its clear to me that Mr Ds experience here went beyond mere irritation. Hes told our service 
he was caused distress and worry by what happened. And I dont dispute that. Its bound to 
have caused him concern that adverse credit had been recorded against him  patriculary 
when theres nothing to suggest that he hadnt maintained his account in line with its terms 
and conditions.
Mr D is unhappy Barclaycard didnt inform him in writing that it had recorded information 
about an IVA in November 2019 and that is was closing his account. I can understand why 
Mr D might think this would have avoided months of communicating with Barclaycard about 
its error. But Barclaycard has explain its process where its notified that a customer has 
entered into an IVA is to communicate directly with the Insolvency Practitioner. I think thats 
reasonable. And its clear Barclaycard followed that process here. So, I cant fairly conclude 
that it should have informed Mr D in 2019 that his accounts were affected.
Mr D said he had to make numerous telephone calls to resolve what had happened after 
finding out about the IVA Barclaycard had recorded. I recognise that hed have had to spend 
some time contacting Barclaycard to understand what had led to adverse credit being 
recorded on his account from February 2020 onwards  when he became aware of what had 
happened. Ive therefore thought about the length of time it took for this issue to be resolved. 
I can see that, on 9 March 2020, Barclaycard contacted Mr D to inform him that it had 
investigated what had happened. It explained how it proposed to resolve his complaint and 
explained it had taken steps to remove information it had recorded about the IVA with credit 
referrence agencies. I think this shows Barclaycard promptly investigated Mr Ds concerns 
and understood the impact its error had had.
I appreciate Mr Ds credit card accounts were closed as a result of what happened. But, 
based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that issue was resolved within the timeframe 
in which Barclaycard assured him it would put matters right. Ill explain why.
I can see Mr D reported his concerns about his account on 28 February 2020. And 
Barclaycard informed him it would reinstate his accounts within 6-8 weeks, which was how 
long that process would take. Barclaycard has shown our service evidence that satisfies me 
Mr Ds accounts were reinstated on 8 April 2020, which is within that timescale. So, I cant 
say it delayed here.Mr D says he wasnt able to make the payments he wanted to his account until they were 
reinstated. But, like our investigator, Im satisfied that the compensation Barclaycard has 
already offered him takes into account any penalties or interest he may have incurred as a 
result of what happened.
Mr D has told our service that the information Barclaycard recorded damaged his credit file. 
But Barclaycard said it rectified the adverse information it recorded with CRAs as soon as it 
had concluded its investigation into what had happened, which was early March 2020. 
I can see that our investigator asked Mr D to provide supporting evidence to demonstrate 
that information about an IVA is still showing on his credit file. But this hasnt been 
forthcoming from Mr D. I therefore havent seen any evidence that Mr Ds credit file is still 
impacted as a result of Barclaycards error.  
I can see that what happened has taken up a lot of Mr Bs time. And its only right that 
Barclaycard recognises this. But Im satisfied that the compensation its already offered 
adequately recognises the time Mr B would have spent and the telephone expenses he 
might have incurred in trying to put matters right. Im also satisfied that Barclaycard acted 
promptly and proactively on becoming aware of the issue affecting Mr Ds accounts.
Mr D has told our service that the call handlers he spoke with behaved in a rude and 
dismissive manner. But Barclaycard says it listened to all call recordings relating to Mr Ds 
complaint. And, having done so, it didnt believe the way in which Mr D was dealt with fell 
short of its usual service levels. 
While I havent been provided with any call recordings I can see Barclaycards business 
records, which summarise the discussions that took place between it and Mr D. Theres 
nothing in those records to suggest that Barclaycards staff behaved unprofressionally or 
without compassion. So, Im not persuaded Mr Ds calls were handled inappropriately.  
I can understand why the issues affecting Mr D caused him great concern. Its clear he was 
affected significantly by the issue hes complained about. But I think Barclaycard offered as 
much assistance as it was able to and took appropriate steps to put things right here. 
I know Mr D will disagree with me. But Im satisfied that the compensation Barclaycard has 
already offered is a fair amount thats proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that he 
would have been caused here. Its in line with our approach in similar scenarios and its what 
I would have told Barclaycard to pay. I havent seen enough to persuade me that a higher 
award is warranted here. So, I wont be asking Barclaycard to increase the compensation it 
offered to resolve this complaint.
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr Ds dispute with Barclaycard 
informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr D any further with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman