DRN-4038473
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance was of an 
unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 14 October 2020, Mr A was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander. The agreement was for £17,195 over 60 months; with monthly 
repayments of £345.60. At the time the car was almost two years old and had done 9,816 
miles.
Mr A took the car for an MOT on 14 December 2021, and it failed due to emissions. He then 
complained to Santander that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
him. But Santander didnt uphold his complaint, saying the fault with the car had occurred 
more than six months after it was supplied to Mr A. And theyd not seen any evidence to 
show that the fault was present or developing when the car was supplied.
Mr A wasnt happy with Santanders response, and he brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said that, because the car failed an MOT in December 2021, she was 
satisfied there was a fault with the car. And she thought the MOT wouldve been the first 
time the emissions wouldve been checked. Given this, and that the car failed an MOT at 
27,019 miles, the investigator said she didnt think the car was of a satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied to Mr A.
The investigator also said that she thought the MOT failure was sufficient, so she didnt think 
Mr A needed to provide any evidence i.e. an independent report, to show that the fault was 
present or developing when the car was supplied. The car was repaired, and an MOT 
passed, on 6 January 2022, so the investigator thought that Santander should refund Mr A 
50% of one payment (plus statutory interest) to compensate him for the fact that he wasnt 
able to use the car from 14 December 2021 to 5 January 2022.
Santander didnt agree with the investigator. They said that the general symptoms of 
emissions issues are reduced fuel economy, dashboard warning lights, exhaust smells and 
loss of engine performance  none of which Mr A reported. They also didnt think that Mr A 
wouldve been able to drive around 17,000 miles, without any symptoms, if the car had been 
faulty at the point of supply.
Because Santander didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr A was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Santander are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Santander can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr A to show it was present when the 
car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr A took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Santander to put this right.
Ive seen that the car failed an MOT test on 14 December 2021, due to emissions. Ive also 
seen that the car failed a second MOT test on 22 December 2021, also because of 
emissions. Finally, Ive seen a job card for a repair to the car dated 6 January 2022. This 
says:
investigated customers complaint of the emissions failing the MOT. Carried out 
systems based test. Checked with technical and advised to check for any 
modifications and carry out update. Carried ou [sic] update and reset adaptions. 
Carried out MOT retest and now all passed.
The job card confirms that Mr A wasnt charged for this work, only for the MOT retest.
Its clear from what Ive seen that the emissions fault was caused by modifications to the car 
engine management system, and not by any physical failure with the car which wouldve 
resulted in the symptoms Santander have described. And Mr A has said that he didnt have 
these modifications carried out, implying they mustve been done before the car was 
supplied to him.
Ive asked Santander for a copy of the original advert for the car (which they would be able 
to obtain from the supplying dealership) to see if this gives any indication that the engine had 
been modified. However, Santander have said that the dealership is unable to supply this.Ive also asked for a forensic report on the cars ECU, which would show when any 
modifications were done. However, Im aware that this type of report can be expensive, 
especially when compared to the recommendation made by the investigator. But no report 
has been provided. As such, my decision is based on what I think most likely happened, 
given the evidence available to me.
Based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that the modifications to the car 
werent carried out by Mr A. I say this because:
(a) its not likely he would need to have an investigation carried out to establish the 
emission fault if he already knew that the modifications would cause this; and 
(b) its not likely that Mr A would complain to Santander about the issues caused by 
modifications if hed had those modifications done.
As such, Im satisfied the modifications were most likely present when the car was supplied 
to Mr A. And, as these modifications caused the car to not reach the minimum MOT 
standard for emissions, then Santander need to do something to put things right.
Putting things right
Based on the evidence Ive seen, the modifications were corrected as part of the MOT costs, 
and Mr A wasnt charged separately for this. So, theres nothing Santander need to refund in 
respect of repair costs. However, Mr A didnt have use of the car for around two weeks, 
while this issue was being sorted. And I dont think its fair he should pay for this period, as 
the underlying cause was present when the car was supplied to him.
So, Santander should:
refund 50% of the December 2021 payment to Mr A, to compensate him for the 
period he didnt have use of the car; and
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refund, calculated from the date Mr A made 
the payment to the date of the refund .
HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr As complaint and Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
trading as Santander Consumer Finance should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman