DRN-1437064
The complaint
Mrs H complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) didnt provide assistance 
when she asked it to reissue an expired cash warrant. 
What happened
Mrs H held an investment account with NS&I, which she took out in May 1990. In December 
2011 she received correspondence from NS&I, which explained it would be making some 
significant changes to her account. 
After receiving this correspondence Mrs H chose to close her account and withdraw her 
funds by way of a cash warrant via a third party business, which Ill refer to as P in this final 
decision. 
Mrs H said she completed the appropriate closure application and returned it to NS&I along 
with her bank book so this could be updated with the interest shed accrued. NS&I received 
Mrs Hs documentation. And, on 7 December 2011, it sent her a payment advice letter, 
which explained she could collect a cash payment of £206.68 from P. However, it explained 
the payment advice was valid for a period of one month only  so Mrs H had to collect her 
funds from P by 7 January 2012. 
Mrs H said, due to the festive season, she filed away NS&Is correspondence and forgot 
about it. On locating the paperwork, in around January 2013, Mrs H realised the deadline to 
collect her money from P had expired. So, she contacted NS&I to ask what she could do. 
However, it told her shed already collected the money. Mrs H explained to NS&I that she 
still had the cash warrant proving she hadnt collected her money. But she said NS&I didnt 
assist her. 
Mrs H said she continued to contact NS&I to ask it to reissue the cash warrant it had sent 
her in December 2011. But the only communication she received from it were Investment 
Account Statements. So, the money remained outstanding and the cash warrant wasn't 
reissued. 
In January 2019 Mrs H sent a letter to NS&I enclosing evidence to prove she hadnt 
collected the money. But she didnt receive a response. So, on 3 February 2019 she sent a 
duplicate of her correspondence to NS&I. Again, Mrs received no reply. 
Mrs H was unhappy NS&I had failed to respond to her correspondence. So she contacted it 
by telephone to complain. During her conversation with NS&I it said she should write in to 
request confirmation of her account closure date and a copy of the signed receipt to 
evidence she had taken the cash, which she did by recorded mail. NS&I responded to Aprils 
letter by sending Mrs H a statement to confirm her account balance. And on 21 May 2019 it 
closed her account and sent her a cheque for just over £23. NS&I said it should have issued 
her a cheque for the money she hadnt collected in 2011. But due to an error this didnt 
happen. On 18 October 2019 Mrs H contacted NS&I again to complain about her missing money. It 
investigated what had happened and issued its final response to her complaint on 23 
October 2019. 
NS&I upheld Mrs Hs complaint and compensated her £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience she had experienced. It sent her a cheque for £7.28, which it said was the 
interest shed lost due to the delay in having her funds sent to her again. However, due it 
failed to issue a cheque for the missing £206.68. And that money wasnt repaid to Mrs H 
until 4 December 2019. 
When Mrs H referred her complaint to our service our investigator upheld it. They werent 
persuaded NS&I had done enough to assist Mrs H in re-issuing her expired cash warrant. 
And they didnt think the compensation it had paid fairly reflected what had happened or the 
length of time Mrs H's money had been outstanding. 
Overall, our investigator thought this complaint should be resolved by NS&I paying further 
compensation of £50 to Mrs H for the distress and inconvenience shed experienced due to 
the delay in returning her missing funds. They also felt NS&I should pay interest on those 
funds from 2013, which was when Mrs H began to ask it for assistance in reissuing the 
expired cash warrant. 
NS&I accepted our investigators recommendation. But Mrs H stated she wanted her 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman due to an error in terminology used by our 
investigator. So, this complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs H experienced in requesting assistance from 
NS&I. I can see how strongly she feels about her complaint and I can appreciate that she 
was caused distress and inconvenience by what happened. 
My role is to assess whether I think NS&I made a mistake, or treated Mrs H unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. I have to look at this complaint impartially and while Ive 
had regard to all Mrs H has said, I also have to be fair to NS&I too. 
I appreciate Mrs H is concerned that our investigator used the wrong terminology in referring 
to the cash warrant as a cheque. However, having considered all the evidence provided by 
both Mrs H and NS&I afresh before making a final decision, Im not persuaded any errors in 
the language used by our investigator detracted from the conclusions they reached in their 
view of Mrs H's complaint. 
I agree with our investigators recommendations as to how Mrs Hs complaint should be 
resolve. And I think they set out the position very clearly and thoroughly in their view. Indeed, 
theres not a great deal I can add to what our investigator has already told Mrs H. Ive seen 
the application that Mrs H sent NS&I for a cash warrant. I can see this was application was 
received by NS&I on 6 December 2011. And, in sending Mrs H payment advice 
correspondence one day later, Im satisfied NS&I acted promptly in actioning Mrs Hs 
request to withdraw her funds.
NS&I said Mrs Hs withdrawal request was valid for one month. It told our service that 
because the funds werent collected prior to that period expiring they were returned to NS&I. 
At this point Mrs Hs money was placed in a non-interest bearing suspense account. This is in line with NS&Is procedure for uncollected funds. So, Im satisfied no errors were made 
here. 
I do, however, think errors were made by NS&I from January 2013 onwards, which was 
when Mrs H started to contact it to ask it to reissue her expired cash warrant. As I mentioned 
in the background to this complaint NS&I told her shed already collected the money even 
though she explained that she still had the cash warrant, which proved she hadnt collected 
the funds. 
I think NS&I could have done more to assist Mrs H during 2013. It could, for example, have 
asked her to send it the cash warrant she still had in her possession. And I think, if it had 
asked her to do that, it would have been able to satisfy itself that she hadnt collected the 
money. Im persuaded, its more likely than not, that if the expired cash warrant had been 
provided to NS&I it would have been able to issue a replacement. And I think that would 
have avoided the significant delay Mrs H went on to experience in having her funds returned 
to her. 
Ive set out the chronology of what happened in detail in the background to this complaint. 
NS&I states it wasn't aware of any correspondence from Mrs H about her expired cash 
warrant before April 2019. But I dont dispute what Mrs H told our service about the efforts 
she made from January 2013 onwards to contact NS&I to request its assistance in returning 
her funds to her. Shes been consistent and precise in the account she gave our service 
about the contact she made with NS&I. And I can see NS&I acknowledged Mrs H made 
efforts to chase its response. 
Its clear, based on the evidence Ive seen, that NS&I had multiple opportunities to assist Mrs 
H with the return of her money over the years. However, notwithstanding her numerous 
attempts to ask it to reissue her expired cash warrant from 2013 onwards her funds werent 
returned until December 2019. This meant Mrs H experienced a significant delay in her 
funds being returned to her. And I think this delay was both avoidable and unfair. 
Putting things right
I can see NS&I compensated Mrs H £150 for the trouble and upset she was caused and it 
paid her £7.38 for the interest she lost due to the delay in the funds being returned to her. In 
their view, our investigator explained in detail why they didnt feel this went far enough given 
both the length of time Mrs Hs money had been outstanding and the efforts she had made 
to ask NS&I to assist her. And NS&I accepted the recommendations they put forward. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint I agree with our investigator in that NS&I 
should pay further compensation of £50 to Mrs H for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced due to its failure to reasonably assist her and the delay this caused in it 
returning her missing funds. This brings to total compensation to £200, which Im satisfied is 
a reasonable amount that fairly recognises the impact this all had. Its in line with what I 
would have suggested had no offer been made, and its consistent with our approach in 
similar scenarios. It isn't clear whether Mrs H cashed the cheques NS&I sent her for the 
£150 compensation it offered to pay. If that cheque wasn't cashed, and has now expired, 
NS&I should replace it. 
Im also persuaded it would be fair for NS&I to pay interest on those funds from January 
2013, which was when Mrs H began to request its assistance in reissuing the cheque. If 
NS&I had returned Mrs Hs money to her at that time shed have had the benefit of it 
accruing interest had she chosen to reinvest it. Its unfair for her to have been deprived of 
her money for so long. So in order to resolve this complaint NS&I should also pay Mrs H 
interest from January 2013 until the date her funds were returned to her. NS&I should therefore calculate the interest Mrs H is now due and deduct from it any interest payments 
already made, and cashed, by her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. National Savings and Investments should do 
the following to resolve this complaint:
 Pay Mrs H a further £50 compensation  taking the total amount to £200; 
 Pay interest of 8% simple a year on £206.68 from January 2013 until the date this money 
was returned to Mrs H. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires National Savings and Investments to take off tax from 
this interest. National Savings and Investments must give Mrs H a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off it she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman