DRN-4451785
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Vacation Finance Limited trading as VFL Finance Solutions (VFL) 
unfairly turned down her claims under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the CCA) relating to a loan they provided to her to purchase a timeshare product. 
What happened
Mrs M has held various timeshare products provided and sold by a company (who Ill refer to 
as A) since 2007. Over that time, she purchased various timeshare products and upgrades 
from A, many of which were funded by loans provided by various different businesses.
In or around November 2018, Mrs M attended a sales meeting with A in which she agreed to 
exchange her existing timeshare product holding for a points-based timeshare product 
offered by A. The purchase required payment of an agreed sum of £11,000, part of which 
was funded under a fixed-sum loan agreement with VFL.
In or around August 2020, using a claims management company (the CMC), Mrs M 
submitted claims to VFL under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. In particular, the CMC 
allege that A had misrepresented the product purchased by Mrs M by advising:
the product was of some substance  it is now clear it is worthless; and
the purchase would be an investment that would increase in value and could be sold 
at a considerable profit.
The CMC said that A have ceased to trade and have committed a repudiatory breach of 
contract. They believe that both the misrepresentations and the breach satisfy the criteria for 
a claim under section 75 of the CCA (S75).
They also said that the relationship between VFL and Mrs M arising out of the loan 
agreement, taken with the related purchase agreement with A, is unfair pursuant to section 
140A of the CCA (S140A). In particular, they said:
Mrs M was subjected to a high-pressure sales presentation;
A were acting as an agent of Mrs M and VFL deliberately chose not to disclose the 
fact that commission was paid to A, or the amount paid;
Mrs M wasnt presented with a choice of finance options; and
VFL failed to carry out a sound and proper credit assessment.
Having not received a substantive response to Mrs Ms claims, the CMC referred matters to 
this service as a complaint. 
During the course of this services investigations, VFL provided their response to the claims. 
Having considered the various allegations together with evidence from the time of the sale 
and their own records, VFL didnt agree the product had been misrepresented to Mrs M. Or 
that there was any evidence thered been a breach of contract. VFL didnt find anything that 
would lead them to uphold any other part of Mrs Ms claim.
One of this services investigators considered all the evidence and information provided. In 
doing so, our investigator asked the CMC to provide Mrs Ms own description of how the 
product had been represented to her, together with details of the products shed previously 
purchased from A.
In response, the CMC provided a document from Mrs M in which she explained shed 
purchased the points-based product following unsuccessful attempts to sell her previous 
timeshare products. She said A had suggested that purchase of the points would be the best 
solution for her allowing her to sell the points acquired in batches from 2023. But she later 
discovered that many of the accommodation packages provided by A werent available to 
her under the product shed purchased. 
Having considered everything said and provided, our investigator didnt think Mrs Ms 
complaint should be upheld. In particular, the investigator didnt think there was any 
evidence to show the product had been misrepresented in the ways alleged. Or that thered 
been a breach of contract. Our investigator also wasnt persuaded there was sufficient cause 
to lead a court to conclude the relationship was unfair pursuant to S140A. Or that there was 
anything to suggest the loan was unaffordable for Mrs M.
In response, the CMC provided further evidence to demonstrate Mrs Ms desire and 
attempts to resell the products she previously held with A. This included copies of email 
exchanges and sale listing agreements. Our investigator didnt think this information helped 
Mrs Ms claim for misrepresentation. In particular as it appeared to contradict her allegation 
that she purchased the points-based product as it was represented to her as an investment.
The CMC didnt accept our investigators findings. They provided further evidence they 
believe shows that other consumers had similar concerns about the product type purchased 
by Mrs M. The CMC later asked this service to obtain and provide various detailed 
explanations and documents relating to the provision of finance by VFL for timeshare 
products, together with As role in that process. 
As an informal resolution couldnt be achieved, Mrs Ms complaint was passed to me to 
consider and reach a final decision. Having done so, while I reached a similar outcome to 
that of our investigator, I addressed various aspects that I feel werent fully considered and 
explained previously. Because of that, I issued a provisional decision on 13 October 2023 
giving the parties the opportunity to respond to my findings before I reach a final decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the FCA2 Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides consumers with protection for goods or services bought using credit. 
Where Mrs M paid for his timeshare product having financed it with a restricted use 
regulated loan from VFL, she is afforded the protection offered to borrowers like her 
under those provisions. So, Ive taken this section into account when deciding whats 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mrs M and VFL arising out of 
any credit agreement (taken together with any related agreements). And where the 
product purchased was funded under a credit agreement, its deemed to be a related 
agreement. Only a court has the power to make a determination under S140A. But 
as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair and 
reasonable. 
Its important to distinguish between the complaint being considered here and the 
legal claim. The complaint referred to this service specifically relates to whether I 
1 Dispute Resolution: The Complaints sourcebook (DISP)
2 Financial Conduct Authoritybelieve VFLs treatment of Mrs Ms claim was fair and reasonable given all the 
evidence and information available to me. This service isnt afforded powers to 
determine any legal claim itself. That is the role of the courts.
The FCAs DISP rules specifically relate to complaints about regulated financial 
products and services and provides rules and guidance about what this service is 
able to consider. It isnt the role of this service to supervise, regulate or impose fines 
on any business. Its also not our role to ask a business to alter their procedures or 
processes or impose improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. 
These aspects fall firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the FCA. But 
it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable 
in the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Mrs Ms experience with them. 
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of 
an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we do not 
provide a legal service. And as Ive said above, this service isnt able to make legal 
findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings 
of an ombudsman, it doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address, in my decision, every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Mr Rs timeshare product experience
Based upon the information available, it appears Mrs M has maintained and ongoing 
association with A and the products they offer. In particular, relating to a holiday 
destination she and her late husband regularly attended. Mrs M has confirmed that 
association started in 2007 when they first purchased a timeshare product from A. It 
appears later purchases and upgrades were agreed and completed in or around 
November 2010, January 2014, and November 2015.
Over time, Mrs Ms product holding varied in terms of the allocated accommodation, 
time period and flexibility according to the product purchased on each occasion. And 
I understand many, if not all, of the purchases were completed utilising finance 
provided by different businesses (including VFL).
So, based upon this information, I think its reasonable to conclude that Mrs M had a 
reasonably strong awareness about the products shed purchased, how they 
operated and any associated costs. I also think its reasonable to conclude that Mrs 
M was familiar with A (as a timeshare supplier) and the sales presentations given by 
them. Particularly as the presentation referred to in 2018 (the subject of her claim) 
wasnt her first experience.
The claim for misrepresentation under S75
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by A in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that A made false statements of fact when selling the timeshare product. In 
other words, that they told Mrs M something that wasnt true in relation to one or 
more of the points raised. I would also need to be satisfied that the 
misrepresentations were material in inducing Mrs M to enter the contract. This means I would need to be persuaded that Mrs M reasonably relied on those false statements 
when deciding to buy the timeshare product.
From the information available, I cant be certain about what Mrs M was specifically 
told (or not told) about the benefits of the product she purchased. It was, however, 
indicated that she was told these things. So, Ive thought about that alongside the 
other evidence available. Although not determinative of the matter, I havent seen 
any documentation which supports the assertions in Mrs Ms claim, such as 
marketing material or documentation from the time of the sale that echoes what she 
says she was told. In particular that the product purchased was represented as a 
financial investment.
I dont think the contract can have been marketed and sold as an investment contrary 
to The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 
2010 (the TRs) simply because there might have been some inherent value to Mrs 
Ms membership. And in any event, Ive found nothing within the evidence provided 
to suggest A gave any assurances or guarantees about the future value of the 
product purchased. A would had to have presented the membership in such a way 
that used its investment element to persuade Mrs M to contract. Only then would it 
have fallen foul of the prohibition on marketing and selling certain holiday products as 
an investment, contrary to Regulation 14(3) of the TRs. 
Subsequent submissions to this service by the CMC appear to suggest the points-
based product was represented as a means to make it easier for Mrs M to exit from 
her timeshare holdings. And that the new product points were represented as having 
the ability to be sold in batches from 2023. Although Ive seen evidence that Mrs M 
was previously attempting to sell her timeshare holding(s) prior to 2018, this 
allegation doesnt appear to form part of the claim submitted to VFL. So, it doesnt 
appear VFL have had opportunity to consider this new allegation. And in any event, 
Ive found nothing within the documentation provided that appears to provide any 
guarantees or assurances about the resale of the points she purchased.
On balance, and in the absence of supporting evidence from the time of the sale, I 
therefore cant reasonably say, with any certainty, that A did in fact make the alleged 
misrepresentations. 
The breach of contract claim under S75
VFL have said that whilst A may have entered an insolvency process, the current 
management company confirm that timeshare owners remain able to fully utilise their 
timeshare products subject to the associated agreements. So, in the absence of any 
specific explanation or evidence to support why Mrs M believes theres been a 
breach of contract which resulted in a loss for her, I havent seen anything that would 
lead me to conclude there was such a breach.
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
The court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (VFL) and the debtor (Mrs M) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).As Ive said previously, its important to acknowledge that only a court can make a 
determination under S140A. But as this is relevant law, I need to take it into account 
in reaching my decision  where appropriate.
The pressured sale and process
The claim and subsequent submissions set out an allegation that Mrs M was 
subjected to a pressurised sale. I acknowledge what has been said about the length 
of the sales presentations she attended. So, I can understand why its argued that 
the prolonged nature of any presentation might have felt like a pressured sale  
especially if, as she approached the closing stages, she was going to have to make a 
decision on the day in order to avoid missing out on an offer that may not have been 
available at a later date.
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, I find 
it hard to argue that Mrs M agreed to the purchase in 2018 when she simply didnt 
want to. I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that she went on to say 
something to A, after the purchase, to suggest shed agreed to it when she didnt 
want to. And she hasnt provided a credible explanation for why she didnt 
subsequently seek to cancel the purchase within the 14-day cooling off period 
permitted here. 
If Mrs M only agreed to the purchase because she felt she was pressured, I find this 
aspect difficult to reconcile with the allegation in question. I havent seen anything 
substantive to suggest Mrs M was obviously harassed or coerced into the purchase.  
And because of that, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to demonstrate 
she made the decision to proceed because her ability to exercise choice was  or 
was likely to have been  significantly impaired. 
In deciding whether to make a determination under S140A, the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor [A] 
and matters relating to the debtor [Mrs M]).
Mrs M already held an existing timeshare product shed purchased previously from A. 
Importantly; the new purchase appears to relate to an upgrade and/or change from 
her existing timeshare product holding. It doesnt appear it was her first product 
purchase from A and Mrs M wasnt a new customer. So, its likely she wouldve 
benefitted from her previous experience and what might be expected from the 
meeting and sales presentation in 2018.
Whilst there could be potential for a court to decide that some of the allegations might 
have led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship here, I think any decision is likely to 
be taken within the context of Mrs Ms overall experience. And even if I was to find 
that some of the information couldve been clearer during the sale  and I make no 
such finding  I think its unlikely this would lead to a court finding this led to a 
sufficiently extreme imbalance in knowledge to render the debtor-creditor relationship 
unfair.
As responsibilities and disclosure of commission paid
Part of Mrs Ms S140A claim is based upon the status of A (as the introducer of the 
loan) and their resultant responsibilities towards her. In particular, its argued that the 
payment of commission by VFL to A was kept from her. But I dont think the fact that 
VFL might have paid A commission was incompatible with its role in the transaction. 
A wasnt acting as an agent of Mrs M, but as the supplier of contractual rights she 
obtained under the timeshare product agreement. And, in relation to the loan, based 
upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt appear it was As role to make an impartial or 
disinterested recommendation, or to give Mrs M advice or information on that basis. As far as Im aware, Mrs M was always at liberty to choose how she wanted to fund 
the transaction. 
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest VFL were under any regulatory 
duty to disclose the amount of any commission paid in these circumstances. Nor is 
there any suggestion or evidence that Mrs M requested those details from VFL. As I 
understand it, the typical amounts of commission paid by VFL to suppliers (like A in 
this case) was unlikely to be much more than 10%. And on that basis, Im not 
persuaded its likely that a court would find that the non-disclosure and payment of 
commission created and unfair debtor-creditor relationship under S140A, given the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Were the required lending checks undertaken?
There are certain aspects of Mrs Ms claim that could be considered outside of S75 
and S140A. In particular, in relation to whether VFL undertook a proper credit 
assessment. The CMC allege a proper affordability check wasnt completed.
Its relevant that the CMC havent provided any evidence to show that the loan was 
unaffordable or unsuitable for Mrs M. And Ive not seen anything that supports any 
suggestion of financial difficulty from that time. 
In their response to Mrs Ms claim, VFL explained to this service the affordability 
assessment theyd completed which they believe showed the loan was sustainably 
affordable for her.  If I were to find that the checks and tests completed by VFL didnt 
comply with the regulatory guidelines and requirements that applied  and I make no 
such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had such checks been completed, 
they wouldve revealed that the loan repayments werent sustainably affordable for 
Mrs M in order to uphold her complaint here. And I dont believe any proven 
compliance failure would automatically mean that Mrs Ms loan agreement was null 
and void in any event. It would need to be shown that any such failure resulted in a 
loss to Mrs M as a consequence.
Ive seen no specific information about Mrs Ms actual position at the time and no 
supporting evidence that she struggled to maintain repayments. VFL have also 
confirmed Mrs Ms loan was repaid in full within the first 12 months resulting in no 
interest charge being incurred by her. Based upon these findings, I cant reasonably 
conclude the loan was unaffordable for her or that she suffered any loss as a 
consequence.
Summary
As a follow up to our investigators findings, the CMC requested that this service 
obtain extensive details of VFLs processes and procedures together with evidence 
that A (and in turn VFL) complied with the relevant rules, regulations and codes of 
practice that applied in the circumstances of the loan that was provided to Mrs M. 
As Ive already explained, this services role as an ADR does not extend to regulating 
financial businesses or their policies and procedures  thats the role of the FCA. Our 
powers are confined to deciding whether, on balance, their processes and 
procedures were applied fairly and reasonably in Mrs Ms circumstances. 
Based upon everything Ive seen; I havent found anything that leads me to conclude 
VFL acted unfairly or unreasonably here. And because of that and my findings 
above, I currently dont intend to ask them to do anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Neither party have responded or acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision, despite 
follow up attempts by this service. So, as the time given to make further submissions has 
passed, and in the absence of anything new to consider, theres nothing that persuades me 
to vary from my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman