DRN-4265397
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about BUPA Insurance Limiteds service when Mrs W made a 
private medical insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have private medical insurance with BUPA. In November 2022 Mrs W was 
told she had a life threatening condition.
On 15 November 2022 Mrs W called BUPA to ask for its assistance in progressing her 
treatment. Mr and Mrs W said BUPA provided a claim pre-authorisation number and referred 
her to a consultant, asking her to call directly to make an appointment. Mrs W called the 
private hospital and was told the consultant didnt have an available appointment for up to 
five months.
Still on the 15 November, Mrs W called BUPA back and waited on hold but couldnt get 
through to speak to someone. As the private hospital had said it would need a referral letter, 
while Mrs W was calling BUPA Mr W called and spoke to the NHS doctor whod seen Mrs W 
the day before. The doctor said he would refer Mrs W within his NHS hospital department 
and she was contacted that day to ask her to attend an MRI the next day.
Later in November 2022 Mrs W was told she should have surgery and she had three 
separate surgeries ending in January 2023. Mrs W had all her treatment through the NHS.
At the end of January 2023 Mr and Mrs W complained to BUPA about its response to 
Mrs Ws call to it on 15 November 2022, BUPAs recommended consultant and its failure to 
meet its membership benefits.
BUPA accepted it had given Mrs W poor service when she had to wait a long time on hold to 
contact it by phone and said it was working to improve that issue. BUPA asked Mr and 
Mrs W to contact it to give more details about why they were unhappy with the consultant it 
recommended and about its failure to meet membership benefits so it could investigate 
those matters. But it said if the complaint was about the service Mrs W received from 
BUPAs recognised consultant Mr and Mrs W needed to contact the consultants provider.
Mr and Mrs W complained to us. In summary they said:
BUPA provided poor advice and no support to Mrs W at the most vulnerable time in 
her life. BUPAs response and lack of action meant it avoided paying for her 
treatment and gave the responsibility of care and cost to their family, the health 
service and ultimately the tax-payer.
They werent seeking any financial compensation for themselves but they wanted 
BUPA to assess what the cost of Mrs Ws medical treatment would have been and 
pay a significant portion of the costs to the departments of the NHS hospitals where 
she was treated.
Our investigator said she didnt think BUPA had acted unreasonably. It did what was 
required at the start of the claim and Mr and Mrs W didnt contact BUPA again to ask for 
more assistance.
Mr and Mrs W disagree and want an ombudmans decision. In summary they added:
Mrs Ws mother died of a related condition so they wouldnt apologise for taking the 
NHS treatment route the doctor offered on 15 November which gave Mrs W the best 
chance of survival, rather than waiting on hold for BUPA to answer Mrs Ws call.
Where was their indemnity for: travel costs to appointments; Mrs Ws cost to stay in 
hospital; Mrs Ws medication while in recovery; both of their absences from work; 
Mr Ws accommodation and living costs related to Mrs Ws hospitalisation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W have been through a very difficult time and Im sorry to read the impact 
Mrs Ws illness had on them and their family.
In Mr and Mrs Ws response to our investigators view they raised the issue of specific costs 
they incurred due to Mrs Ws illness. Ive no evidence that theyve made a claim for those 
costs on their policy with BUPA. If they want BUPA to pay those costs they need to make a 
claim so BUPA can assess the costs claimed against whats covered by the terms of the 
policy. If Mr and Mrs W and BUPA cant reach agreement about those costs then they will 
need to first complain to BUPA about that matter and can ultimately make a separate 
complaint to us. Im not making any finding about whether BUPA should pay those costs to 
Mr and Mrs W in this decision.
In this decision I have to decide whether BUPA gave fair and reasonable service. I dont 
uphold the complaint as I think BUPA gave fair and reasonable service, apart from it having 
long call waiting times which BUPA accepts. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. 
When Mrs W phoned BUPA on 15 November 2022 to ask for assistance with her treatment 
BUPA gave her a claim authorisation code, details of a recognised consultant and asked her 
to arrange an appointment direct. I think BUPAs actions were reasonable. Its role as the 
medical insurer was to give Mrs W an authorisation code for treatment covered and the 
name of a local BUPA recognised consultant with the relevant medical specialism. An 
insurer wouldnt usually make the appointment for the policyholder direct with a consultant 
and I dont think BUPA acted unreasonably in asking Mrs W to make the appointment.
The consultant BUPA suggested didnt have availability to see Mrs W for the next five 
months. That timescale would have been a shock for Mrs W given her condition. But I dont 
think BUPA is responsible for a consultants availability and if the first consultant it suggests 
isnt available in an appropriate timescale BUPA could reasonably understand that Mrs W 
would call it back. Mrs W did phone back BUPA but, because of its long call waiting times, 
while she was on hold Mr W was able to speak to the NHS doctor Mrs W had seen the day 
before who suggested she be treated through the NHS. 
In Mrs Ws circumstances its completely understandable that when the NHS doctor 
suggested he refer her for treatment through his NHS department, and she was then quickly 
contacted to make an appointment for the next day, she took that route. But as she didnt get 
to speak to BUPA to tell it that its suggested consultants availability wasnt suitable BUPA 
didnt know about the problem. If Mrs W had told BUPA about the problem its very likely it 
would have suggested another consultant. It was frustrating for Mrs W to wait on hold to 
speak to BUPA but as BUPA wasnt told about the problem it couldnt do anything to fix the 
problem.
Mr and Mrs W say its indicative of the level of care and service that BUPA provided that 
after Mrs Ws initial phone call to BUPA on the 15 November 2022 it didnt give Mrs W a 
follow up call or email to give support. Its not usual practice for insurers to do a follow up unless the policyholder makes them aware of issues theyre having. BUPA didnt know 
Mrs W had any issues with the information it gave her about the consultant. And after 
15 November Mr and Mrs W didnt call BUPA to ask for assistance. So I dont think BUPA 
acted unreasonably in not contacting Mrs W. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs Ws focus was on her medical treatment she was having 
through the NHS and all the emotional and physical impact theyve described. But as they 
didnt contact BUPA after 15 November until their complaint, which was after Mrs Ws 
treatment, I cant hold BUPA responsible for not doing more for Mr and Mrs W. Im not 
requiring BUPA to take any action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman