DRN-3188498
The complaint
Mr K complains that Phoenix Life Limited failed to carry out sufficient due diligence activities 
when he asked to transfer some pension savings to a Small Self-Administered Pension 
Scheme (SSAS) in September 2014.
What happened
Mr K has been assisted in making his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
But, in this decision, I will largely refer to all communication as having been with, and from, 
Mr K himself. At the time of the transfer Mr Ks pension savings were held with Abbey Life. 
But Phoenix is now responsible for that firm, and so is dealing with the complaint. For ease, 
I will refer to Phoenix as the responsible business throughout.
Mr K held pension savings with Phoenix. He also held pension savings with another firm that 
I will refer to as A. Mr K has made an additional complaint against A on the same basis as 
his complaint against Phoenix. That complaint is being dealt with separately, but I have read 
some of the information it contains, and I will touch on what happened in Mr Ks dealings 
with A later in this decision.
Mr K says that he was cold called by a firm offering him a free pension review. He found the 
proposals from the firm to be attractive and agreed to the transfer of his pension savings 
from Phoenix (and also from A).  Mr K says he was told that by investing his pension savings 
in an overseas property scheme he would receive a better return on his investments.. 
Mr K completed the paperwork the firm provided that created a new company that would 
employ Mr K, and set up a SSAS to provide him with pension benefits after it received the 
transfers from Phoenix and from A. Phoenix received a request for the transfer of Mr Ks 
pension savings in early September 2014. It completed the request later that month.
Mr K says that during the entire transfer process there was no effective communication from 
Phoenix to him. In particular he says that Phoenix should have warned him that his transfer 
request might be as a result of a scam, and warned him about the risks he was facing. Mr K 
says that those warnings would have resulted in him cancelling the transfer activity.
Mr Ks complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He accepted that Phoenix 
might have been expected to do more in its communication with Mr K. But he didnt think that 
further communication with Mr K would have resulted in him stopping the transfer. So he 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr K didnt agree with that assessment. Although I am only briefly summarising here what he 
and his CMC have said, I want to reassure Mr K that I have read, and carefully considered, 
all the representations that have been made.
Mr Ks CMC says it is clear that Phoenix failed to do what it needed to in relation to the 
transfer, both in terms of its internal checks, and its communication with Mr K. It thinks that 
an appropriate level of due diligence by Phoenix would have identified the warning signs on 
this transfer. And those should have led Phoenix to discuss the matter directly with Mr K. 
Had it done so, the CMC says that, Mr K wouldnt have completed the transfer.
It has also noted that there is no evidence that Mr K received any information from A in 
relation to his pension transfer that would have led him to become aware of the risks he was 
taking. So it doesnt think that Mr K completing that transfer too gives any indication that he 
wouldnt have taken on board the warnings Phoenix should have provided.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr K and by Phoenix. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The Pension Regulators (TPR) scorpion guidance
The scorpion guidance was issued on 14 February 2013 and updated the following year, in 
July 2014. Several bodies including the FSA (the Financial Services Authority which was 
succeeded by the Financial Conduct Authority, the FCA, shortly afterwards) were part of this 
initiative so its a relevant consideration for personal pension providers like Phoenix which 
come under FSA/FCA regulation, rather than TPR regulation.
Briefly, the scorpion campaign involved an action pack that highlighted the warning signs 
present in a number of transfer examples, specifically: being cold-called, money being 
transferred overseas, incentives to transfer, inadequate information about investments and 
pressure to complete a transfer quickly. It suggested transferring schemes should look out 
for these issues, as well as receiving occupational schemes that were newly registered or 
were suddenly involved in multiple transfer requests. The 2014 update replaced many of the 
2013 warnings about pension liberation, with similar warnings about scams.
If any of the warning signs applied, the action pack provided a checklist schemes could use 
which suggested asking the member for copies of promotional materials, emails or letters 
about the scheme and for further details about how they became aware of the receiving 
scheme and how it had been described to them. If those enquiries established the member 
had been advised, it went on to suggest checking whether the adviser had been registered 
with the FCA. Where transferring schemes had concerns, they were encouraged to consider 
delaying the transfer and to seek legal advice.The scorpion campaign also included:
An insert to issue to members when a transfer pack was requested. The insert warns 
about offers to cash-in pensions early, cash incentives, cold calling, being put under 
pressure to transfer and the potential tax consequences of accessing pensions early.
A longer leaflet which gives more information, including real life examples, about 
pension liberation. This was to be used in order to help raise awareness about 
pension liberation amongst pension scheme members.
In addition to endorsing this guidance, Phoenixs regulator, the FCA, had since its inception 
set out Principles and Rules for Phoenix to follow  including COBS 2.1.1R (the clients best 
interests rule) which Mr Ks representative has highlighted. So I think it was also appropriate 
for Phoenix to have regard for this TPR guidance in meeting its existing regulatory 
obligations. In light of this Ill consider what (if any) warning signs Phoenix ought reasonably 
to have noticed in Mr Ks request to transfer to the SSAS.
Status of the receiving scheme
Every SSAS is specific to its members, and consideration will often be given to transfers 
from a members existing pensions when a scheme is first set up. So it may not necessarily 
have been surprising that a transfer request was being received to a scheme Mr K had 
recently established as trustee, for what appeared to be a new employer he had 
incorporated as a director.
At the time, the actions being taken by TPR against suspected pension liberation schemes 
tended to involve larger multi-member schemes operated by unscrupulous trustees which 
were hurriedly set up and admitted members from all over the UK, with no connection to 
each other, over a short space of time. That wasnt the form of arrangement Mr K was 
entering into, which might have appeared a lot more like a decision he entered into to form a 
pension scheme for his own company. It wasnt until a further March 2015 update to the 
action pack that TPR specifically highlighted that the focus of liberation or scam activity had 
now moved to single-member schemes.
And the SSAS administrator itself had been in existence for a number of years at the time of 
the transfer. So I dont consider it should have been regarded as a recently established 
operator in the market. The transfer request that Phoenix received was made through the 
industry wide Origo Options scheme. That scheme allows for vetted members of the scheme 
to move pension monies quickly and with limited paperwork. But although the use of Origo 
might have given Phoenix some comfort, I dont think it absolved the firm from its 
responsibilities to conduct the appropriate due diligence on the transfer request.
Phoenix says the transfer request provided it with little information about the ultimate 
investment Mr K intended. If Phoenix had suspected the investment Mr K was making might 
be a scam there were several options open to it under TPRs guidance. Its important to say 
here that this applies whether or not that suspicion was correct, so Im making no judgement 
here about the status of Mr Ks investment. Part of the problem is that investment scams are 
often outwardly indistinguishable from what might simply be a risky investment proposal that 
could lose all the investors money.
The options Phoenix had were to investigate whether there were grounds to delay or refuse 
to transfer to the SSAS altogether; or and particularly if not, to engage further with Mr K by 
providing risk warnings and check he understood the implications of what he was doing.Did Phoenix have a basis on which to delay or refuse the transfer?
Phoenix has explained that the rules of its personal pension meant a customer had a right to 
transfer their pension plan to any scheme capable (and willing) to accept a recognised 
transfer under Section 169 of the Finance Act 2004. The HMRC registration of the scheme 
meant it fulfilled those criteria. Although Phoenix hasnt been able to show us it made any 
further enquiries of HMRC here, I have no reason to think additional enquiries would have 
highlighted any problems.
A statutory right to transfer to a SSAS would also exist given that the sponsoring employer of 
the SSAS was Mr Ks own company of which he was acting as a director. To ensure that it 
would have been necessary for Phoenix to inspect the SSAS trust deed and rules  again it 
doesnt seem that was done. But it appears Mr K was entitled to secure transfer credits as a 
member of that SSAS using his Phoenix personal pension, given he was clearly holding 
office as a director of that employer at the time.
I have considered whether Phoenix might have been concerned that the new employer Mr K 
had set up wasnt genuine and therefore this wasnt a valid exercise of his statutory rights. 
But its likely in my view that any attempt by Phoenix to say this to Mr K would have been 
met by the sort of complaint letter from Mr K about it delaying the transfer, that the wider 
evidence suggests customers were being asked to sign in advance. Indeed it appears that 
Mr K made a complaint of this nature to A when it delayed part of his transfer of his pension 
savings with that firm. 
The scheme was validly registered with HMRC, and there would have been nothing to 
suggest at the time that it was being used for pension liberation. The case law subsequently 
established in Hughes v Royal London [2016] EWHC 319 (Ch) indicates that as Mr K 
already had earnings from his main occupation, a lack of further earnings from the 
sponsoring employer of which he was a director of in this case wouldnt have invalidated his 
statutory right to transfer.
Im not saying that Phoenix should have anticipated the outcome of a court case that hadnt 
yet happened  if it had suspicions at the time, it should have communicated what those 
suspicions were, as Ill explain later below. But I think its important to recognise what its 
now been established the law actually meant for this sort of transfer.
Having considered all of this I think Phoenixs prospects were limited, for delaying or 
blocking Mr Ks transfer out of a suspicion that the sponsoring employer wasnt genuine - 
and could ultimately have been unsuccessful. But more importantly than this, I dont consider 
I could reasonably expect Phoenix to go to these lengths in the particular circumstances of 
this case given the apparent outcome of similar enquiries with HMRC in the past.
 
In the case of an actual investment scam, it might be expected that engaging further with the 
member about the potential risks they were taking might lead to the member reconsidering 
whether they wanted to transfer in any event  and therefore was a more constructive way 
for Phoenix to proceed in the particular circumstances of this case. So Ive next considered 
the possibility that Mr K might have changed his mind about transferring if Phoenix had got 
directly in touch with him to explain its concerns.Risk warnings
At a time when the TPR guidance was less prescriptive than it, and other industry codes, 
now are on the degree of contact a transferring scheme should have with the customer, a 
key method of passing on these risk warnings was to issue the scorpion leaflet. Since 
February 2013 TPR had been saying on its website that it would like to see the use of this 
insert in transfer packs for members becoming best practice.
Phoenix seems to have taken the view that this wasnt a necessary step given that Mr Ks 
request had been received through the Origo system. But the danger in taking that approach 
is that Phoenix is effectively relying on what might be a fraudulent party to protect its 
customer. So in my view Phoenix should have sent the leaflet to Mr K, both to provide him 
with information about the risks he might be facing, and to ensure that it could demonstrate it 
followed the TPR guidance. 
I accept its possible Mr K wouldnt have read the leaflet had Phoenix sent it to him. There 
isnt a requirement in the guidance for Phoenix to check he had read and understood the 
leaflet. But I have noted that A says it sent the scorpion leaflet to Mr K twice, in October and 
November 2014. I appreciate Mr K says that he doesnt recall receiving these leaflets. But on 
balance I have no reason to think they werent sent. And although they were sent after the 
Phoenix transfer had been completed it does suggest that Mr K might have received the 
warnings those leaflets contained.
The Action Pack provided guidance to firms as to the steps they might take should they have 
concerns about a transfer. It suggested firms could:
Contact the member to establish whether they understand the type of scheme 
theyll be transferring to and send them the pension scams booklet available 
at www.pension-scams.com
Speak to the member at risk  over the phone, via email or letter. It could help 
you establish answers to more of the questions in the checklist, where youve 
been unable to answer them with the information you have available
Direct the member to Action Fraud if you think it is a scam, or The Pensions 
Advisory Service (TPAS) to discuss the potential consequences of the 
transfer, including tax repercussions, if any part of the arrangement is 
deemed as unauthorised
If the member insists on proceeding with their transfer request, and your 
concerns remain, then you should alert Action Fraud yourself. There could 
still be time to protect this member, or others who follow in their footsteps.
Phoenixs own investigations suggest that it decided not to make any direct contact with 
Mr K when it received his transfer request. But I dont think I need to consider here whether 
or not that was a reasonable approach. Even if I thought it should have seen some warning 
signs Im not persuaded that any further contact from Phoenix would have made a difference 
to Mr Ks decision to transfer.If Phoenix had gone further, would it have made a difference?
The Action Pack does suggest getting in touch with the member but that is the only 
expectation  it doesnt specify how that contact should be made, and certainly not that the 
contact should be by telephone. This is left to the discretion of the provider. Although I know 
some providers have tried engaging over the phone it is not without its difficulties, including 
the risk of it being wrongly perceived as a self-interested attempt to retain Mr Ks business. 
Given that the staff involved in processing payments out of the transferring scheme are 
neither qualified nor authorised to provide financial advice, in reality such a conversation 
would also need to be heavily scripted  and might not end up being a lot more effective 
than a letter. So I couldnt fairly fault Phoenix had it decided that it was best to engage with 
Mr K by letter.
The main risk in Mr Ks transfer was not one of liberation, but the potential for the 
subsequent investment to be either a scam or wholly unsuitable for him. However even if the 
Phoenix had been alerted to the possibility of a scam (when it discovered the nature of the 
proposed investment), that doesnt mean it was straightforward for Phoenix to tell Mr K 
directly that it thought it was unsuitable (or even likely to be unsuitable) for him. It would 
have been forming such a view based on insufficient information about Mr Ks personal 
circumstances  and of course it was not qualified to formally provide such advice. If it had 
attempted to directly caution Mr K against making the investment it wasnt in a position to 
advise what he should invest in, which is a natural question to follow.
I have looked carefully at what happened with Mr Ks transfer request to A that was made 
around the same time. He held six different policies with A. Four of those policies were 
transferred before he made his request to Phoenix. But A initially blocked the transfer the of 
final two policies citing concerns in line with the new guidance. I can see that the SSAS 
administrator, on behalf of Mr K, complained about As actions. Ultimately those remaining 
plans were transferred in late 2014. So even in the face of resistance from the existing 
provider, Mr K still pressed ahead with the transfer request. I have no reason to doubt hed 
have taken a similar approach if any contact had been made by Phoenix.
Mr K had already taken some significant steps here, not least the setting up of a limited 
company that bore the names of his children and the taking on of director duties for that 
company. There had been a lot of activity leading up to the transfer request with numerous 
points where someone less committed to changing their pension arrangements could easily 
have pulled out. Obviously, Mr K didnt do so which, to my mind, shows he had more than 
just a passing interest in the investment. 
So in that context, I dont think a statement from his old pension provider about regulated 
financial advice being a good idea would have prompted Mr K to take independent advice or 
to pull out of the transfer. I think he would only have done so if he had doubts about his 
investment and was prepared to unwind the steps he had already taken. Taking everything 
into consideration, including listening to two calls between Mr K and our investigator, I dont 
think this was likely.
Im not satisfied that flagging up any of the other messages in the scorpion guidance  for 
example the availability of TPAS to discuss any concerns  would have fundamentally 
altered Mr Ks decision to proceed in this case. Im drawn to the regrettable conclusion that 
Mr K was already satisfied enough with the advice he was getting  whether that was from 
the SSAS administrator or another firm that appeared to have been involved in the 
discussions  to have been willing to make the decisions he made at the time. I cannot 
reasonably say he would have been deterred from going ahead in spite of any steps Phoenix 
might have taken to alert him in line with what Ive set out above.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Phoenix Life Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman