DRN-2323680
The complaint
Ms I complains about the way Kensington Mortgage Company Limited have handled her 
mortgage. Shes unhappy they didnt accept her proposals that she says would have 
prevented a third party from taking possession of her property. Shes also unhappy that 
Kensington didnt reduce the interest rate on the mortgage in 2020 when other rates reduced 
around that time.
What happened
Ms I has an interest only mortgage with Kensington. The mortgage has been in and out of 
arrears for some time, and in 2019, Ms I was having conversations with Kensington about 
longer term solutions to her financial difficulty. The management company for her property 
were pursuing her for unpaid ground rent, and Ms I was exploring ways in which she could 
repay the ground rent and keep her home. 
In September 2019, Ms I asked Kensington (with the help of a third party) if they would 
consider removing the charge on her property so that she could take out an equity release 
product. She wasnt able to secure an equity release mortgage for the full outstanding 
amount on the mortgage so she asked if Kensington would be prepared to release the 
charge, and convert £40,000 of the mortgage to an unsecured loan. Kensington said they 
wouldnt be able to agree to that and encouraged Ms I to seek independent financial advice 
about the situation. In the meantime, they continued to agree to short term payment 
arrangements where Ms I would pay what she could afford to the mortgage each month.
In January 2020, the courts ordered that the management company of Ms Is property could 
take possession and sell the property if the unpaid ground rent was still not paid by 2 March 
2020.
In January, the management companys solicitors wrote to Kensington informing them of the 
order, and asked if they wanted to pay the outstanding amount of around £75,000. They said 
that if the amount was still unpaid on 2 March, they would take possession and sell the 
property.
Ms I asked Kensington to repay the ground rent and add the amount to her mortgage. But 
Kensington didnt pay the outstanding ground rent, and so the property was repossessed in 
March 2020. Ms I moved in with a friend, but has said shes had to pay rent as well as her 
mortgage payments, which she cant afford to do.
Ms I complained to Kensington that they didnt do more to try and avoid the repossession of 
her property. She was unhappy they didnt agree to her proposals that would have allowed 
her to stay in her home. She was also unhappy that the interest rate had not reduced in line 
with other interest rates in 2020, and that Kensington were writing to her about her arrears 
when she was on a payment holiday.
Kensington didnt uphold the complaint, so Ms I asked our service to look into things. She 
also raised concerns about actions Kensington had taken in the past that had been the 
subject of previous complaints. 
Our investigator explained to Ms I that she couldnt consider everything Ms I had asked us 
to, and we would only consider Ms Is complaints about the following events from March 
2019 onwards:
Kensington didnt accept her proposals, and didnt take steps to avoid the 
repossession of her home;
Kensington havent been more sympathetic to her situation, and were still sending 
her arrears letters when she was on a payment holiday.
The interest rate didnt reduce in 2020.
Having considered the above complaints, the investigator didnt think Kensington had treated 
Ms I unfairly. Ms I asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision, so 
the complaints now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to see that Ms I has been through a very difficult time over the years, and for 
various personal reasons shes been unable to consistently pay her mortgage payments as 
well as clear the outstanding charges accrued with her propertys management company. 
Whilst Ms I has been experiencing difficulty for a number of years now, our service has 
considered complaints for Ms I already about how Kensington has treated her for much of 
that period. So, as the investigator explained, I am only considering her complaint about 
what has happened from March 2019 onwards.
Ms I has provided a lot of information about whats happened and has provided detailed 
accounts of the events. Whilst I have only summarised the circumstances in this decision, I 
want to assure both parties that Ive carefully considered everything theyve provided before 
issuing this decision.
Ms Is proposals
I can see from what Ms I has told us, and the contact notes from the account, that she was 
trying hard to find a way to stay in her home and clear the outstanding debts she owed. She 
was also seeking help from a third party about her options, and was looking into equity 
release. Whilst the mortgage wasnt due to end until 2029, the management company were 
demanding payment of the unpaid ground rent and Ms I was trying to find a way to pay it. 
And she ultimately asked Kensington to pay the outstanding amount on her behalf and add it 
to the mortgage.
Ive thought carefully about whether Kensington should have done more, and agreed to what 
Ms I had suggested, but Im not persuaded they should have. The proposals Ms I asked 
Kensington to consider would either have significantly increased her debt with them, or left 
them with an outstanding debt that wasnt secured by a charge on Ms Is property. Any of 
these changes would have significantly increased the risk to Kensington  far beyond what 
they agreed to when they lent Ms I this mortgage in 2004. I dont think it was unreasonable 
that Kensington didnt want to increase their lending, or remove their charge on the property 
before the full amount was repaid. And so I dont think theyve acted unfairly.
I do appreciate that Ms I feels Kensington have allowed her home to be repossessed, but it 
was not Kensington who took action to repossess her property. And whilst they could have 
agreed to pay the ground rent and add it to Ms Is mortgage to stop the repossession, they 
didnt have to. Given that doing so would have added over £75,000 to a mortgage of around 
£120,000 that had been in and out of arrears, Im not satisfied they were acting 
unreasonably. 
Ms I was in a vulnerable situation, and Kensington were fully aware of her circumstances. 
But Kensington were agreeing to short term payment arrangements on the mortgage so that 
Ms I was able to pay what she could afford. I think by doing so they were taking account of 
Ms Is overall circumstances, and were treating her fairly.Ms I has also said Kensington were acting unfairly by not using her payments to reduce the 
mortgage capital instead of just paying the interest. Ms Is mortgage is interest only, and 
whilst the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) have been making payments towards 
the mortgage interest, these werent enough to cover the full monthly payments. So I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Kensington to allocate Ms Is own contributions to the 
payments towards the monthly payments as opposed to the capital. Under the terms of the 
mortgage agreement, Ms I is required to pay the contractual monthly payment (CMP) each 
month. If she wanted to reduce the capital, she would have needed to have paid more than 
the CMP to do that.
Ms I has also made reference to the fact she was concerned about the price the house 
would be sold for. Kensington had no influence over how the house was marketed or sold, 
as they didnt have possession. So I wont comment on that any further here.
Overall, whilst I appreciate Ms I was put in a very difficult situation, Im not satisfied that 
Kensington were treating her unfairly.
After Ms Is property was repossessed
Ms I moved out of the property in March 2020 and moved in with a friend. As the mortgage 
had not yet been repaid, she was still being charged monthly payments on the mortgage, as 
well as having to pay rent. Ms I has raised concerns about what happened in 2020, 
specifically that Kensington werent doing more to help her, she was being sent letters about 
arrears despite taking a payment holiday, and the interest rate didnt reduce.
I understand that after Ms Is property was repossessed, she had no control over when the 
house would be sold and so therefore when the mortgage would be repaid. Ive looked at the 
contact notes for the account during this period. Ms I did speak to Kensington about her 
situation, but she explained that she was able to continue making the monthly payments in 
the short term. Kensington explained that if that changed, she should let them know and they 
would see what they could do to help. After March, Ms I stopped making payments to the 
account and instead took a payment holiday following the introduction of guidance issued by 
the regulator to help those impacted by the pandemic.
Ive seen that Kensington did send Ms I quarterly arrears statements during that time. I can 
appreciate these letters may have caused Ms I some confusion, as she didnt think she 
needed to be making payments during that period. But Ive looked at the letters and as they 
were quarterly statements, they set out the position of the account, including the arrears, and 
the outstanding balance. I dont think these letters were inappropriate or chasing payment. 
So I dont think it was unreasonable for Kensington to send them.
Looking at what happened, Ms I was initially able to make her payment in March, but when 
things changed in April, she took a payment holiday and stopped paying. I cant see 
Kensington were chasing her for payments during that time, and so I dont think theyve 
treated her unfairly.
Ms I has also complained that her interest rate didnt reduce in 2020 when other interest 
rates fell. Our service has considered complaints about Ms Is interest rate and how its been 
set before, so I wont comment on that again. But I have looked at what happened in 2020 
specifically and whether Kensington should have reduced the interest rate. 
Kensington explained to Ms I that the interest rate charged on her mortgage is linked to 
LIBOR and not the Bank of England base rate. So the reduction in the base rate had no 
impact on the rate payable on her mortgage. Looking at LIBOR and the rate Kensington 
charged at the time in 2020, Im not persuaded they ought to have reduced the rate to lower 
than it was. 
SummaryWhilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Ms I, Im not satisfied Kensington 
have treated her unfairly within the scope of this complaint. I do empathise with Ms Is 
situation and everything shes been through, but I cant say that was a result of unfair 
treatment by Kensington. 
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman