DRN-3237571
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money he lost when he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr P received a call from someone claiming to be from HSBC. The caller asked Mr P if he 
recognised a transaction that had been attempted on his account in Aberdeen and, when he 
said he didnt, told him there had been fraud on his account. The caller then told Mr P his 
account would have to be closed and he should move his money to another account theyd 
opened for him as soon as possible, to avoid losing it.
Mr P says he checked the number he was called from, and it was the genuine HSBC fraud 
team number. And he was sent a text by the caller, which showed as coming from HSBC. So 
he believed the call was genuine. He then transferred £8,000 out of his account, to the new 
account details the caller gave him. Unfortunately, we now know the caller was a scammer.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
authorised push payment scams like this, except in limited circumstances. HSBC 
investigated Mr Ps case but said one or more of the exceptions applies. It said Mr P had 
ignored an effective warning and had made the transfer without a reasonable basis for 
believing it was legitimate, so he wasnt entitled to a full refund under the CRM code. Mr P 
wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at Mr Ps complaint. They didnt think HSBC had established 
that Mr P had ignored an effective warning, or made the transfer without a reasonable basis 
for believing it was legitimate. So they felt Mr P was entitled to a full refund under the CRM 
code. HSBC disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether HSBC 
should have reimbursed Mr P under the provisions of the CRM code and whether it ought to 
have done more to protect him from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. The CRM 
code places a level of care on Mr P too, so Ive considered whether he met this.
The CRM code
As I mentioned above, HSBC is a signatory to the CRM code. The CRM code requires firms 
to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) 
scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish 
that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions 
set out in the CRM code.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
othe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
othe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
othe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mr P ignore an effective warning?
The CRM code sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand 
what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. As a 
minimum, the CRM code sets out that an effective warning should be understandable, clear, 
impactful, timely and specific.
HSBC has sent us a copy of the warning message Mr P would have seen before making the 
transfer, and it says:
Take care when sending money
Fraudsters can pretend to be from places you trust, like your bank, the police or HMRC. 
They can call from a number that appears valid when checked. If they ask you to move your 
account or repay an overpayment, it could be a scam.
If youre not sure, hang up and call the contact number on your card or an official phone 
number. We may not be able to recover payments that turn out to be fraudulent.
While the warning message does say fraudsters can pretend to be from places you trust and 
can call from a number that appears valid, it only talks about someone asking you to move 
your account. And I dont think this wording is specific enough about what the scam would 
look or sound like, to make it clear to Mr P that this was the type of scam he could be falling 
victim to. It doesnt mention the caller saying the account is at risk of fraud or the need to 
move money to a safe account, which are common features of this type of scam.
The warning message also relies on Mr P himself having doubts about the transfer by saying 
If youre not sure and only says that this could be a scam. And I dont think this wording 
was impactful enough about the likelihood that this was a scam, and stronger wording here 
could have made Mr P question the situation more thoroughly.So I dont think this warning was specific or impactful enough to be effective in Mr Ps 
circumstances. And so I dont think Mr P ignored an effective warning in relation to this 
transfer.
Did Mr P have a reasonable basis for belief?
Mr P was called by someone claiming to be from HSBC. He says the caller knew his name, 
contact details, post code and date of birth, and went through security questions with him 
similar to those hed expect from a genuine bank. Mr P also says he asked the caller to 
confirm who they were and they told him to check the number the call showed as from on his 
phone  which was a genuine HSBC number. So, given the information the caller had, the 
professional nature of the call and that Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr P was 
previously aware that scammers could spoof phone numbers in this way, I think its 
reasonable that he thought the call was legitimate.
The warning message Mr P saw before making the payment did mention that fraudsters can 
call from a number that appears valid when checked. But after seeing the warning message, 
Mr P asked the caller to verify themselves and was then sent a text message that appeared 
to be from HSBC. Mr P says this text further convinced him the call was genuine and, as the 
warning message doesnt mention spoofed text messages as a possibility, I dont think this 
was unreasonable. Mr P was also shown a separate warning that the details hed entered 
didnt match those on the account the money was going to. But he asked the caller about 
this as well and was told this was because the account wasnt set up yet  which I dont think 
it was unreasonable for him to believe, particularly given the previously convincing nature of 
the call.
Mr P therefore read and understood the warnings, tried to take further action to check the 
call was genuine and received additional verification and explanations. And he says the 
caller told him he would lose all his money if he didnt move it, and so was putting pressure 
on him to follow their instructions quickly. So I dont think it would be reasonable to say Mr P 
lacked a reasonable basis for belief because he navigated past the warning messages and I 
still think its reasonable he thought the call was legitimate.
And so I think Mr P did have a reasonable basis for belief that the caller was legitimate and 
that the payment he was making was genuine.
Should HSBC have done more to protect Mr P?
In addition to its responsibilities under the CRM code, when Mr P made this payment, HSBC 
should fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions 
or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things).
The payment Mr P made was for a large amount, was for a significantly larger amount than 
any other payment made out of his account in the previous twelve months, and was to a new 
payee hed never sent money to before. So I think HSBC should have identified that he 
could be at risk of fraud and so carried out further checks before processing the payment.
Due to the amount of the payment, I think its reasonable to expect these checks to include 
questions about the purpose of the payment. And Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr P 
had been given a cover story or told to lie about the payment. So, if asked, I think he would 
have said that he thought he was already speaking to HSBC and had been told he needed 
to move his money as fraud had been attempted on his account. HSBC should then have 
identified that Mr P was likely the victim of a scam and explained this to him, which I think 
would have uncovered the scam and stopped Mr P sending the payment.So if HSBC had carried out further checks before processing the payment, as I think it 
should have done, the scam would have been uncovered and Mr P wouldnt have lost the 
money. And as Mr P has now been without that money for a period of time, I think HSBC 
should pay him compensatory interest at the rate of 8% simple a year, from the date of the 
transfer until the date it is refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Refund Mr P the £8,000 he lost as a result of the scam
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund from the date of the payment until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman