DRN-4393780
The complaint
Mr W complains about the difficulty Bank of Scotland, (trading as Halifax) caused him when 
he tried to reopen a dormant account.  
What happened
Mr W said his account had been inactive for over three years, and was dormant. Halifax said 
an account can be reactivated at any branch with the account details, photo ID and recent 
proof of address. 
Mr W has a medical disability which means he couldnt go to the branch to reopen his 
account and couldnt speak on the phone. He wanted Halifax to accept proof of address and 
ID documents as an email attachment to reopen his account. And he wanted Halifax to pay 
him compensation for discriminating against him. He complained to Halifax.
Halifax said Mr Ws dormant account is only one of four accounts he holds with the bank and 
the other three remain active. Halifax said the account was opened in 2014 and had never 
been used and so had a nil balance. Halifax advised Mr W that there are other options for 
third party involvement to assist him in visiting the branch, or a representative for his affairs. 
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response and referred his complaint to our service. 
Halifax changed its position and decided to accept Mr Ws emailed ID and reopen his 
account. It said there was no financial detriment to Mr W from the delay, but offered him 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr W still wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response which he described as very discriminated 
and disgusting. He said the initial responder from Halifax needs training and had no right to 
tell him to arrange a representative for his affairs. He said he wanted £500 compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said although Halifax initially 
advised Mr W to go to its branch to reopen his account, it then it accepted his ID by email 
and reopened his account. The investigator thought that Halifaxs offer of £100 
compensation was fair as there was no financial detriment to Mr W. He said it isnt for our 
service to make a finding on discrimination, this is for the courts to decide.
Mr W disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review his complaint. 
He said Halifax has no legal authority to ask him to get a representative for his affairs and it 
had acted in contravention of the Human Rights Act. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W finds it discriminatory that Halifaxs requirements for reopening an account preclude 
him from accessing his account. In its initial response Halifax said it doesnt have means of 
verifying him against the digital documentation provided in his email message. 
I can see that Halifaxs initial response to Mr W was unhelpful in that he felt he was given no 
alternative other than to attend branch to reopen his account. I think it did provide other 
alternatives, and so in that respect I havent found that it discriminated against Mr W, though 
it could have been more considerate of his accessibility requirements. I havent made a 
finding in respect of the Human Rights Act as that would be a matter for the court.
Mr W said Halifax had no right to tell him to arrange a representative for his affairs as he is 
quite capable of managing them. It might well be overstepping the mark for Halifax to tell a 
customer to do this  but it didnt. It made this as a suggestion alongside some unspecified 
third-party assistance as a possible means for Mr W to overcome his difficulties in reopening 
his account. As such I think it was reasonable for Halifax to put forward these suggestions 
for workarounds to Mr Ws accessibility requirements.
Im pleased that Halifax decided to accept Mr Ws ID by email so that he didnt have to 
attend branch or use the assistance of a third party. I think this was reasonable in the light of 
the mobility difficulties Mr W faces. It would have been preferable if this had been Halifaxs 
initial response.
From Halifaxs records Im satisfied the bank has never prevented Mr W from accessing his 
funds within his four Halifax accounts as the dormant account has never held a positive 
balance. In this respect I cant see that Mr W has suffered any detriment from the short delay 
in the reopening of his account. 
I have considered Halifaxs responses to Mr Ws complaint. I think that by adjusting its 
approach to accepting the ID evidence he provided by email and him offering £100 
compensation it has responded very fairly to his complaint. I recommend that Mr W contact 
Halifax to accept payment of the compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman