DRN-3930861
The complaint
Ms K complains about charges applied at the end of her hire agreement with Mitsubishi HC 
Capital UK Plc, trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions. 
Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc was formerly known as Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC.
What happened
In 2017 Ms K took out a hire agreement with Novuna for a new car. This was originally for a 
period of 48 months, ending on 28 August 2021. It was later agreed that the hire period 
would be extended to 60 months, with a total contracted mileage of 45,000. 
Ms K arranged for the car to be inspected and collected on 22 August 2022. She took photos 
of it the night before the inspector arrived. Shes told us that her driveway is big enough for 
two cars, but the inspector said he needed to move the car because he wasnt allowed to 
take photos that showed the house numbers.
After checking the car over the inspector gave Ms K a copy of his report, listing damage with 
a total value of £1,605. This comprised:
Area Damage Repair Value
Front door R Contamination Smart repair £75
Rear door R Preparation marks / poor repair Refinish £140
Quarter panel R Preparation marks / poor repair Refinish £140
Rear door L Preparation marks / poor repair Refinish £140
Front door L Paint run / poor repair Refinish £140
Quarter panel L Dirt in paint / poor repair Refinish £140
Bonnet Preparation marks / poor repair Refinish £140
Front bumper Paint cracked Refinish £175
Rear bumper Preparation marks Refinish £175
C post L Scratched through paint Smart repair £75
C post R Scratched through paint Smart repair £75
B post R Dent / minor paint damage PDR £60
Front alloy wheel R Scuffed / spoke damage Smart repair £65
Front alloy wheel L Scuffed / rim damage Smart repair £65
Novuna later sent Ms K an invoice for £68.90 relating to excess mileage. 
Ms K disputed these charges. She told Novuna that she accepted the bonnet needed a 
repair, but she didnt agree that it needed a full respray. She said she couldnt see the other 
damage the inspector had reported. She said shed bumped a wall about 18 months earlier, 
but this had been professionally repaired.
Novuna didnt uphold Ms Ks complaint, so she asked us to look into what had happened. 
She said she believed the damage had been done by the inspector after hed moved the car 
out of view of her doorbell camera. She also felt she shouldve been given an opportunity to 
repair any issues herself before the agreement ended. 
After reviewing the evidence provided by both parties, our investigator said he thought the 
charges Novuna had applied were fair. He said hed seen nothing to suggest the damage 
was done by the inspector. And he thought Ms K couldve checked the car over much 
sooner, so she had time to have any issues put right. 
Ms K said shed paid the excess mileage charge, which she no longer disputed. But she 
disagreed with our investigators view about the damage charges. Ill summarise the main 
points she made:
The car had been in good condition for its age. No car would be in factory condition 
after five years. 
If there were scratches, the inspector made them worse after hed moved the car out 
of sight. Although she couldnt prove this, shed seen other people reporting similar 
experiences on internet review forums. 
Shed never agreed to the prices charged for repairs, and these are way too high. At 
the time she took out the lease the costs would have been a lot less.
The inspector told her several times that things he was pointing out may not be 
scratches, but he had to note them. He advised her to call Novuna, saying she 
wouldnt be charged. 
Our investigator said his view of the case hadnt changed. He said Ms K didnt have to agree 
the prices Novuna charged  and that hed seen nothing to suggest they were high or not in 
line with what other businesses charge. 
Ms K remained unhappy, so she asked for an ombudsman to review things again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ks complaint is about a hire agreement. Entering into this type of consumer credit 
contract is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can look into this. Ms K has told us that she 
no longer wishes to complain about the excess mileage charge, so my decision will focus on 
the charges for damage to the car. 
Ive started by considering whether it was fair and reasonable for Novuna to add charges 
after the agreement ended. Ive seen a copy of the agreement Ms K signed on 25 July 2017, 
which sets out her obligations. These obligations include:
to keep the vehicle in good condition and repair. You will be responsible to us for any 
damage caused to or deterioration of the Vehicle otherwise than through fair wear and 
tear as indicated in the guidelines issued from time to time by the British Vehicle Rental 
and Leasing Association (BVRLA).
So, Im satisfied that Novuna had explained the condition theyd expect the car to be in when 
it was returned at the end of the hire period - and that Ms K could expect to face additional 
charges if these requirements werent met.
When considering whether the charges were fair, Ive started by reviewing each of the 
issues listed in the inspection report to decide whether it fell outside the BVRLA guidelines for fair wear and tear. I bear in mind that the car was five years old by the time Ms K 
returned it. I wouldnt expect a car of that age to be in showroom condition. 
If I think the damage is more than fair wear and tear, Ive also considered whether the 
amount Novuna charged was reasonable.
Damage to front wheels
The BVRLA guidelines say:
Scuffs of up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable.
Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not 
acceptable.
Ive reviewed the photos of the damaged wheels, which show a measuring card positioned 
close to the damaged areas. The right front wheel clearly has damage to the spoke, and 
theres a scuffed area on the rim of the left hand front wheel that exceeds 50mm in length. 
Im satisfied that this falls outside the BVRLA guidelines - and I think this is more than the 
kind of damage Id expect from wear and tear through normal use. So, I think it was fair for 
Novuna to charge Ms K for repairs to these wheels. I dont consider a charge of £65 per 
wheel to be unreasonable. 
Damage to bodywork
1. Poor repairs
The BVRLA guidelines say:
Repaired chips, scratches and dents are acceptable provided the work is completed to a 
professional standard
Obvious evidence of poor repair, such as flaking paint, preparation marks, paint 
contamination, rippled finish or poorly matched paint, is not acceptable.
Ms K said shed taken the car to a repair garage after she bumped a wall, and that they 
did a good job. But Novuna applied charges for poor repairs to the doors, quarter panels, 
bonnet, and rear bumper. Ive carefully reviewed the photos shown in the inspection 
report.
I can clearly see an issue with the paintwork on the right hand side front door. Although I 
cant say with certainty that this is due to contamination, Im satisfied that theres obvious 
evidence of a poor repair here. 
I can see obvious signs of poor repairs to the other three doors. Theres clearly a paint 
run on the edge of the left hand side front door, and marks in the paintwork on both rear 
doors. 
I can also see obvious signs of poor repairs to both quarter panels. The right hand panel 
has clear marks in the paintwork, similar to those on the rear doors. The left hand panel 
has noticeable marks in the paintwork, which I consider to be consistent with dirt in the 
paint. The bonnet and rear bumper have obvious marks in the paintwork, again similar to those 
on the rear doors. The front bumper has clearly suffered an impact at some time, and the 
paint in that area is cracked. 
I dont consider the repairs to these areas to have been carried out to a professional 
standard. So, Im satisfied Novuna were entitled to charge Ms K for this damage.  
2. Dents and scratches
The BVRLA guidelines say:
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two 
per panel and the paint surface is not broken.
Chips within dents are not acceptable.
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out.
Ive reviewed the photos of the right hand side B post and C posts. 
I can clearly see the B post is dented in two places, and that the paint surface is broken in 
one of them. 
I can see two scratches that have gone right through the paint on each of the C posts. 
Im satisfied that these dents and scratches fall outside the guidelines for fair wear and 
tear. Again, I think this is more than the kind of damage Id expect from normal use. So, I 
think it was fair for Novuna to charge for this damage. 
Ms K has told us that there were very tiny scratches inside the door and on the bonnet, but 
she thought theyd be considered fair wear and tear. She said the inspector moved the car 
away from her house so he could cause more damage - and that he was alone with the car 
for around 30 minutes. 
In the absence of evidence to support these allegations, I consider it highly unlikely that the 
inspector worsened existing dents and scratches through the paintwork on the B and C 
posts. I dont consider it possible for the issues with the poor repairs to have happened 
within 30 minutes. And the damage to the alloy wheels appears to me to have been present 
for some time. So, Im not persuaded that the inspector caused any of the damage 
highlighted in his report.
Ms K has provided photos of the car taken the night before the inspectors visit. But these 
photos dont show the areas concerned in sufficient detail for me to be able to see what 
damage  if any  was present. 
Cost of the repairs
I note the inspection report says a smart repair would be possible in some areas, but some 
parts of the car would need refinishing. Ms K feels this wouldnt be necessary - and that the 
amounts Novuna charged for repairs are way too high. Ive given careful thought to the 
points shes raised here. 
But having reviewed the evidence in detail, Im not persuaded that the damage to the areas 
the inspector identified as needing to be refinished could simply be rubbed down or polished out. Nor am I persuaded that the charges are excessive or unreasonable, given the extent of 
the damage to the car. 
I appreciate Ms K didnt agree to the prices Novuna charged for repair work, but I dont 
consider there to be any requirement for her to do so. Id generally expect the costs of repair 
work to increase from year to year, due to inflation.  
Ms K feels she should have been given an opportunity to repair any damage the inspector 
identified, because the agreement wasnt due to end for a few more days. But having 
reviewed the information she was given when she took out the agreement, Im satisfied that 
Novuna made it clear that she may be charged if the car wasnt returned to them in good 
condition - and how she could access the BVRLA guidelines.
I do think it was for Ms K to check the car over and make sure any repairs were carried out 
before she arranged for it to be collected. I dont think Novuna did anything wrong by not 
allowing her a further opportunity to do this after the inspector identified repairs were 
needed. 
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman