DRN-3829954
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax recorded one month late 
payment on their credit files. They said there was no intention not to pay, they had sufficient 
money to pay, and they didnt know there was no direct debit set up to take payment.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr and Mrs B, as the mortgage is in both their 
names, our dealings have been with Mr B. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision. 
Mr B said that he thought it was unfair and unreasonable for Halifax to have reported one
missed payment on his mortgage, at the end of November 2020. He said that in November
2020, after a period of payment holiday, he changed the term of this mortgage and received
a letter advising payments would start next month. Mr B said there was enough money in his
account to cover the mortgage payment, but he received notification that his payment for
November had not been made.
Mr B said he at first thought it must have been his mistake, so he paid as soon as he
became aware, which was around 13 or 14 December 2020. He said he didnt know there
wasnt a direct debit in place.
Mr B said that although he was substantially in credit, Halifax had recorded a one month late
payment as he hadnt paid by the due date. Mr B said hed proven that this was an error as
there were funds in the account. Mr B also said he thought it was unfair to penalise him for a
month when it was a lot less than that. Hed only been a couple of weeks late with his
payment, and if his payment date had been earlier in the month, then this couple of weeks
wouldnt have mattered.
Mr B said that the negative mark on his credit file had affected his ability to move to another
lender, and cost him a great deal more in interest charges because of this.
Mr B wanted Halifax to remove the record on his credit file as it was not one month late.
Halifax said it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said Mr B had taken a COVID-19
payment holiday, then a part payment holiday. It initially said Mr B had cancelled his direct
debit when this happened, but it later explained that Mr Bs direct debit had been cancelled
automatically when a payment failed in July. Halifax said Mr B had been sent written
notification of this cancellation of the direct debit arrangement on 29 July 2020.
Mr B spoke to Halifax on 13 November, and he said then that he wasnt able to go back to
making full payments. Halifax said Mr B was reminded on this call that he would need to
make his November payment, and it then set up a term extension for him, which reduced his
monthly payments from December onwards. Halifax said when it wrote to Mr B about his
term extension, it reminded him that there was no direct debit set up.
Halifax said it thought Mr B ought to have been aware that there was no direct debit set up to
pay his mortgage account. It said it would consider taking the negative marker off his credit
file if he could show he had enough money to cover the monthly payment. Mr B sent this
evidence, but Halifax then said it wouldnt remove the marker after all.
Mr B then contacted us again. He said he was comfortable if the payments had been taken
at the end of November. He wasnt clear on how the mistake was made. He said he thought
Halifax had told him to cancel his direct debit, but he also said that when he extended the
mortgage the paperwork sent through was left clear for his direct debit, so he might have
assumed that Halifax had a direct debit in place, or would send through a request.
Mr B also said he only looked at this correspondence extending the term of his mortgage
after he got the letter saying Halifax had not received Novembers payment.
Mr B told us it was already difficult for him to get a mortgage because he was in a Debt
Management Plan. And one of the only lenders who would accept that plan was then
deterred from lending to him because of this one missed mortgage payment showing on his
credit file.
Mr B stressed that he had the money, there was no intention not to pay, he was already
ahead in his mortgage payments and the mortgage adviser had the opportunity to take new
direct debit details. He said that advisor may have possibly misinformed him that the
payment was due next month. But Mr B also accepted that this wasnt really in my head
when the payment did not take place, but I did think they might take it into consideration.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said she could see Mr B
had the money to make his payments in his personal current accounts (we wouldnt include
his business current account balance in this). And she accepted that the negative credit file
mark had affected his remortgage. But she just didnt think the negative credit file impact
was as a result of Halifax acting unfairly or unreasonably.
She said she couldnt see that Halifax told Mr B not to make the payment in November 2020
so she thought this should have been made. Our investigator thought that the letter that was
sent and the conversations Mr B had with Halifax made clear that he and Mrs B needed to
make the full payment in November 2020 and then reduced payments from December 2020.
But they didnt make the November 2020 payment until December.
Our investigator said lenders have a responsibility to report factually correct information to
credit reference agencies (CRAs) because other lenders rely on this when it comes to
making lending decisions. So arrears were correctly reported. She wouldnt ask Halifax to
take this mark off Mr and Mrs Bs credit files.
Mr B responded to say that he didnt have a business account, and that he did not say that
Halifax told him not to make a payment. Our investigator replied, and sent Mr B the business
current account statement he had shared with us.
Mr B replied, clearly very disappointed. He thought our investigator had formed her view
early on, and hadnt properly looked at his complaint. He said hed never argued that hed
only been told to make payment from December. Hed only seen that in the letter after the
problem had occurred. But he wanted to know how Halifax had made clear that payments
were required. Mr B said hed always wanted to extend the term of his mortgage, and during
the discussions about this, he felt the advisor had an opportunity to re-instate the missing
direct debit, but failed to take this.
Mr B said he was not aware that a direct debit was no longer in place. He repeated that
there was no intention from him not to pay, but hed suffered because a payment which was
only days late was recorded as a missed month. Mr B said Halifax had ignored the previous
conduct of his account. He said that the request hed made for his credit file to be amendedhad been dismissed without proof of due consideration.
Mr B said he thought our organisation was here to help seek out unfair processes and
procedures, which he believed this is, and not to ignore it as a process fault and dismiss it as
he felt we had. Mr B told us about his personal circumstances in 2020, and he said surely, if
it was decided he had made a small mistake then it could have been considered favourably.
Our investigator replied to say that Halifax had shown us the call notes from November
2020, which suggested Mr B had been told payment was required, and the letter which says
that payments were required. She also said that it wouldnt matter if mortgage payments
were made every month for 20 years or there were previous issues for 20 years, as to how
November 2020 would be recorded. If a payment is missed and there isn't any reason for
this, this would mean that the credit file would be adversely impacted.
Our investigator said she was sorry to hear about Mr Bs personal circumstances during
2020 and she appreciated this would have impacted Mr B at that time. But she still thought
Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in what it reported, and she had no grounds to ask it to
change what has been reported.
Mr B asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. The case was then
passed to me for a final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I have considered what Mr B said to us about this complaint, and what he said to Halifax 
at the time that he made his complaint. And I dont think its likely that Halifax told Mr B 
he didnt need to make a payment in November. I think if that was the reason for Mr Bs 
non- payment, he would have argued this from the start, and he hasnt done that. 
Rather, he has been clear that this isnt what his argument rests on.
Without any clear statement from Halifax that Mr B didnt need to pay for November, I 
would expect Mr B to be aware that a payment was needed for that month. And I dont 
think that the small payments Mr B had been making during his payment holiday (when 
Halifax didnt expect payment at all) meant that he then didnt have to pay at all for 
November.
What Mr B has said is that he didnt realise he didnt have a direct debit set up at the 
time, that there was no intention not to pay, and that he could have paid.
What Mr B has said, makes me think its most likely that this failure to pay was just an 
oversight on Mr Bs part. Ive considered whether Halifax can reasonably be held to be 
responsible for that oversight, and I dont think it can. Thats because I do think Mr B 
was told that his previous direct debit had been cancelled some time ago, in July 2020. 
And I dont think that any missed opportunity to set up a new direct debit, on the part of 
the advisor Mr B spoke to in November to extend his mortgage term, would mean it was 
Halifaxs fault that no manual payment was then made by Mr B.
So I dont think Halifax acted unfairly or unreasonably when it notified CRAs that Mr and 
Mrs B were one month in arrears on their mortgage at the end of November 2020.
I understand Mr B feels hes been unfairly treated, because he had arranged his 
payments for the end of the month, and if hed been in the middle of the month, he would have had more time to notice and rectify the oversight. But unfortunately, if 
payments arent made on the due date, which this one wasnt, then Halifax is entitled to 
record a missed payment.
Mr B has also said that the response Halifax has made has had a disproportionate 
impact on him. I understand that Mr B found his mortgage costs were much higher 
because of this one negative mark, and that he doesnt think this is fair. But Halifax isnt 
responsible for how other lenders assess Mr Bs credit file. Its only responsible for the 
report it makes of Mr and Mrs Bs payments. And, as our investigator touched on, 
lenders do have a legal responsibility to provide an accurate report of whether payments 
were made on time, to CRAs. That means that the solution Mr B has suggested, that 
this could simply be seen as a small mistake and viewed with some leniency, isnt a 
solution that I think Halifax can reasonably be asked to adopt.
I know Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed, but I dont think Halifax has to make changes 
to the credit file reporting it has made for them. And for that reason, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax said it had nothing to add to my decision. Mr B replied to say he disagreed, and 
express how unhappy he was with my decision. He also said he wanted to complain about 
our service, and indicated that he intended to appeal against my decision. Its not clear 
whether Mr B intended to send a further response, however, the deadline for responses to 
my provisional decision has now passed, and no further communication has been received 
from Mr B. I do think its now appropriate to finalise my decision. 
So, as Ive set out, neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent 
changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman