DRN-3465988
The complaint
Miss R complains Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Loans 2 Go approved Miss R for a £1,000 loan in December 2019. The term of the loan was 
18 months with monthly repayments of approximately £230 per month.
Miss R says Loans 2 Go irresponsibly lent to her; as it did not complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks at the time the loan was applied for. Miss R says she was struggling 
financially at this time, as well as suffering from mental health issues; and Loans 2 Go 
oughtve realised the loan was unaffordable to her. Miss R says she has lost out financially 
as a result of Loans 2 Gos actions, as she has had to pay additional interest and charges. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She argued the checks which 
Loans 2 Go completed were not proportionate. This was because Miss R had a significant 
outstanding debt at the time of the application, and had some negative markers in the recent 
past. As Loans 2 Go hadnt completed proportionate checks, our investigator considered 
what further checks wouldve shown. Miss R had provided our service with bank statements; 
and our investigator argued these showed that Miss Rs finances were such that further 
lending was not sustainable. As such, Loans 2 Gos decision to lend was unfair.
Loans 2 Go disagreed with the assessment. It maintained it had lent responsibly to Miss R. It 
maintained it had completed proportionate checks, and these had demonstrated the loan 
was likely affordable to Miss R. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.   
Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Miss R. The 
relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Loans 2 Go lent required it to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Miss Rs ability to 
afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term without causing her financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for Loans 2 Go to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without having to borrow further.
Loans 2 Go says it completed proportionate checks. It says this is because it completed an 
income and expenditure assessment, as well as checking Miss Rs credit file and using an 
online tool to verify her income. It says these checks gave it enough insight into her finances 
to understand whether any lending would be appropriate. 
Having considered Loans 2 Gos arguments, I disagree it completed proportionate checks in 
this instance. Im satisfied that the checks that Loans 2 Go completed demonstrated that 
there were some potential markers with Miss Rs information, which oughtve prompted 
Loans 2 Go to ask further information in order for the checks to be considered proportionate.
Notably Miss Rs credit file showed that she had a significant level of outstanding debt, and 
had issues managing her credit in the past. The outstanding debt was over £10,000 at the 
point of the application. Her existing credit commitments showed some signs of distress too; 
for example, she had exceeded her existing credit card limit; and had two months of arrears 
on it. The credit report also suggested that she was reliant on her overdraft and had 
exceeded this arranged limit too (albeit by a small amount). There was a new credit card 
which had recently been taken out suggesting that again Miss R was reliant on other forms 
of credit to supplement her income. There were other signs of potential financial issues as 
Miss R had a default applied at the beginning of 2019, as well as having settled a utility in 
the early part of 2019 which had three months of arrears on it.
In addition to this the online verification tool that Loans 2 Go had used demonstrated that 
Miss Rs declared income was actually lower than the amount stated. The expenses which 
had been completed relying on average statistics dont appear to be reasonable in the 
context of the above information.
So, considering the above, Im satisfied there were sufficient markers to suggest that Loans 
2 Go oughtve completed further checks, such as verifying Miss Rs outgoings, in order for it 
have completed proportionate checks. As it didnt do this, Im satisfied that the checks Loans 
2 Go completed were not proportionate in this instance.
As Loans 2 Go didnt complete proportionate checks, I have to consider what further 
information wouldve likely shown. Miss R has provided our service with copies of her bank 
statements in the lead up to the application of this loan (these are the same statements that 
Miss R provided Loans 2 Go as part of its complaints process). In the absence of other 
information, Ive relied on these statements to help decide what I think further checks 
wouldve likely shown at the point of her applying for the loan. 
These statements demonstrate that Miss Rs finances were not managed to a sustainable 
standard. They demonstrate the income was lower than that used by Loans 2 Go during the 
application; and that Miss R was using credit to help supplement her income. The 
statements suggest that Miss R was managing her finances to a negative budget and her 
outgoings were higher than those used in the application; demonstrated with her entering 
further into her overdraft as time moves on. There are entries from other credit providers 
suggesting Miss R was reliant on revolving credit to manage her finances. 
Miss R has explained she was struggling financially at that time and the statements support 
this. Whilst there is a one-off payment from her late fathers life insurance policy; the overall 
picture of her finances is negative. It is clear she is having to borrow from other credit 
providers and family friends in order to maintain her balance. Im satisfied that without the 
supplementary income made up from other credit providers and borrowing from family and 
friends that Miss Rs finances wouldve continued to worsen. The statements corroborate the information suggested in the credit file; and suggest that 
Miss R was someone who was in financial difficulties. As Loans 2 Go is aware it needs to 
ensure that any lending it provides needs to be sustainable. This includes lending to people 
who are experiencing financial hardship. Im satisfied the information provided demonstrates 
that Miss Rs finances were such that any further lending was not sustainable to her. Im also 
satisfied that had Loans 2 Go completed proportionate checks in the first instance that it 
wouldve seen this too. As further lending was unlikely sustainable to Miss R, Im satisfied 
that Loans 2 Go made an unfair decision to lend to her.
Putting things right
Miss R has lost out financially as a result of Loans 2 Gos actions. She has had to pay 
additional interest and charges. As such Loans 2 Go needs to put things right.
In order to put things right, I require Loans 2 Go Limited to:
Add up the total amount of money Miss R received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Miss R made should be deducted from this amount; as 
well as any charges or fees associated with this loan.
a) If this results in Miss R having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from 
the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go Limited should 
attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss R.
After all adjustments have been made and once there is no outstanding balance, 
Loans 2 Go Limited need to remove any negative information recorded on Miss Rs 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Loans 2 Go Limited must give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Loans 2 Go Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman