DRN-4270145
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE didnt meet a cancellation 
claim under their annual travel insurance policy. 
All references to Great Lakes include its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, 
amongst other things, the terms of Mr and Mrs Ws policy and the circumstances of 
their claim, to decide whether I think Great Lakes treated them fairly.
Mr and Mrs W bought their annual travel insurance policy on 10 March 2022. On 28 
June 2022 Mr W made Great Lakes aware that Mrs W was undergoing tests for 
erratic heartbeat. Great Lakes advised that due to these tests Mrs W would not be 
covered for her pre-existing conditions. She had the option to cancel the policy and 
have a pro-rata refund of the premium paid, or to travel in the knowledge that these 
conditions or anything medically related to them will not be covered by this policy. I 
find this was fair and in accordance with the policy terms. These provided that if the 
underwriters could not provide cover for a mid-term change in health, they had the 
right to withdraw cover.
On 23 June 2023 Mr and Mrs W had booked a trip abroad. In July 2022 Mr and Mrs 
W cancelled their planned trip because of Mrs Ws condition. Great Lakes noted from 
the medical records that Mrs Ws erratic heartbeat and blood pressure issues had 
started in March 2022. Great Lakes again offered to cancel the policy or exclude 
cover if Mr and Mrs W wished to travel. I find this was fair. 
Great Lakes wasnt obliged to offer cover for the cancellation of the trip as cover 
didnt extend to pre-existing conditions. In addition cancellation cover is only 
available for reasons set out in the policy of which the policyholders were unaware at 
the time the trip was booked or the cover was purchased. It was apparent from the 
medical notes that Mrs Ws condition pre-dated the purchase of the trip, and she was 
aware of it. Therefore cancellation cover wasnt available to them. Any claim arising 
directly or indirectly from a known pre-existing medical condition, unless accepted by 
Great Lakes, is also specifically excluded under the cancellation section. This would 
apply to both Mr W and Mrs W.
It is accepted that Mrs W had declared high blood pressure initially, but Im satisfied 
it was fair for underwriters to consider that erratic blood pressure, for which Mrs W 
was waiting to see a consultant, represented a change in health.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed by my decision and Im sorry that 
it doesnt bring more welcome news. But in all the circumstances I dont find that 
Great Lakes treated them unfair or contrary to their policy terms by declining their 
cancellation claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman