DRN-3665975
The complaint
Ms Cs representative has complained, on her behalf, about advice given to her by 
Sovereign Private Clients Limited (SPC) to transfer defined benefits she held in an 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
What happened
My understanding is that Ms C met with a representative of SPC in early 2017, and although 
theres no fact find from the time of the meeting, Ms Cs circumstances at the time were as 
follows:
She was 59 years old and widowed.
She had no savings or assets.
She hoped to retire at age 62.
Ms C has said, in the course of our investigation, that she had a cautious attitude to risk and 
had little investment experience.
Ms C had accrued defined benefits in the OPS of a former employer, which had a normal 
retirement age of 60. 
A letter from the scheme to Ms C in 2017 estimated that she would receive an annual 
income of £1,067, or a commuted annual income of £767.09 if Ms C took her tax-free cash 
entitlement. The scheme would pay a spouses pension of 50% of her pension entitlement. 
At the time of advice, Ms C had close to four years of membership, having left the scheme in 
June 2005. As such, she was a deferred member of the scheme.
Ms C has told us that, in terms of her objectives at the time, she wanted to use the tax free 
cash for holidays and to buy a new car.
SPC hasnt provided a suitability report. Theres also no transfer value analysis (TVAS) 
available from the time of the advice But a Liverpool Victoria (the PPP provider) illustration 
indicated that the recommended PPP would need to grow by 8.7% pa at age 62 to match the 
benefits provided by the defined benefit scheme.
There would be an initial adviser fee of £1,543 applicable to the transfer, along with an 
ongoing adviser charge of 1% pa of the fund value.
In terms of product fees, this would be set at 0.25% pa of the fund value.
Ms C accepted SPCs recommendation and the transfer took place in or around October 
2017. The amount transferred was just under £31,000. By the end of 2018, Ms C had drawn 
down the entire pension.
Ms C complained, through her representative, to SPC in July 2021, raising concerns that the 
advice was unsuitable for the following reasons:
She wasnt informed of the benefits shed be losing by transferring and, had she 
known, she wouldnt have transferred.
She had little previous investment experience and a low attitude to risk/capacity for 
loss.
The tax-free cash was used for things that werent necessary.
SPC didnt provide a final response. The complaint was then referred to this service, where 
one of our investigators assessed it. He thought that the complaint should be upheld, saying 
the following in summary:
Ms Cs defined benefits would offer her a guaranteed income for life and would form 
a significant part of her pension provision. 
From the information provided by Ms C, it seemed that she had a low capacity for 
loss, which would have meant that the security of the guaranteed benefits offered by 
the defined benefit scheme would have been very important to her.
The defined benefit scheme offered valuable benefits with no risk.
The regulators guidance (COBS 19.1.6) said that the starting point in assessing the 
suitability of a defined benefits transfer should be the assumption that it will be 
unsuitable, unless it could be clearly demonstrated otherwise.
As there was no suitability report, the investigator couldnt be certain that this had 
been commented upon by SPC, but hed nevertheless considered the available 
evidence to determine whether the transfer had been in Ms Cs best interests.
In terms of financial viability, the advice was given during a period when this service 
was publishing discount rates on our website for use in loss assessments where a 
complaint such as this was being upheld.
Businesses werent required to refer to these rates when providing advice, but they 
were nevertheless a useful indicator of the growth rates which would have been 
considered achievable at the time.
There was no TVAS, and so no critical yield had been produced by SPC, but the 
PPP provider had calculated this to be 8.7% at age 62 in its illustrations. 
The regulators upper projection of potential growth at the time was 8%, with the mid 
band and lower growth level projections being 5% and 2% respectively.
In terms of Ms Cs other assets which might assist in absorbing potential investment 
losses as a result of the transfer, Ms C was receiving £500pm as a widows pension. 
Taking this into account, along with the composition of assets used to determine the 
discount rate, Ms Cs low attitude to risk, and her term to retirement, she was likely to 
be in a substantially worse off position at retirement through transferring.
The advice to transfer wasnt therefore suitable as it was unlikely to improve her 
overall financial situation, despite her capacity to absorb some losses as a result of the £500pm she received as a widows pension.
In terms of other reasons as to why the transfer might be suitable, advisers were 
required to understand a consumers actual objectives so that they could advise on a 
suitable course of action to meet them.
These objectives shouldnt be generic, but personal to the individual client, as set out 
by the regulators guidance contained in FG21/3. That guidance said that recorded 
objectives such as flexibility and control of my pension were unlikely to be 
sufficiently personalised without further detail.
There was no recommendation report to demonstrate what SPC considered to be a 
motive for Ms C to transfer, but she had herself given this service stock motives 
when describing the reasons for transferring. 
But the available evidence didnt support the position that these stock motives were 
of sufficient importance to Ms C to justify relinquishing her guaranteed benefits, 
especially given that she was likely to be worse off in retirement as a result.
SPC hadnt therefore clearly demonstrated that the transfer was in Ms Cs best 
interests, as required by COBS 19.1.6G.
The investigator concluded that, had Ms C been suitably advised to not transfer, she would 
have retained her defined benefits. In support of this position, he said that, whilst the 
reasons for transferring  to take holidays and buy a new car  were nice things to have, 
they couldnt justify the relinquishing of the guaranteed scheme benefits.
As Ms C didnt have any other substantial provisions for retirement, the importance of the 
scheme benefits would have been enough to stop her transferring.
As such, the investigator recommended that SPC conduct a loss assessment in line with the 
guidance issued by the regulator for unsuitable defined benefit transfers, as set out in the 
FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for
unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
Ms Cs representative accepted the proposed outcome and subsequently confirmed that, 
although Ms C had the option of waiting for the outcome of the FCAs consultation on 
amending the redress methodology which was announced on 2 August 2022 before redress 
was calculated and settled by SPC, she would rather any redress be calculated in line with 
the current guidance.
SPC hasnt responded to the investigators assessment, and as agreement hasnt been 
reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.Did SPC provide advice?
In the absence of any information from SPC relating to the advice process, Ive needed to 
firstly establish, as far as is reasonably possible, that it did in fact provide advice to Ms C to 
transfer. I think its unlikely that the genesis of the transfer was Ms C herself. Defined benefit 
transfers are complex matters and I think its unlikely that the desire to take holidays and buy 
a new car would have prompted Ms C to have herself begun researching her options to 
transfer her deferred OPS benefits to achieve this.
Ms Cs recollection is that SPC contacted her about transferring  involving several 
meetings, one of which she thinks happened at her home.
And so, on the basis of Ms Cs recollections, Ive then considered the evidence produced by 
the PPP provider. The latter comprises the following:
A call note dated 23 January 2019 showing the representative of SPC made an 
enquiry to determine whether they were still the lead agent on the plan. 
A letter from Liverpool Victoria to SPC dated 25 October 2017 confirming that the 
new plan had been set up. 
An email from Sovereign Private Clients Ltd to Liverpool Victoria dated 24 October 
2017 attaching the application form. 
A remuneration statement dated 25 October 2017 showing a payment of £1,543.48 
was made to SPC as an advisor charge. 
I think the above evidence means that, on balance, its more likely than not that Ms C 
received advice from SPC to effect the transfer. Ive also noted that, in the communication 
which this service has received from SPC, it hasnt indicated that it considers it wasnt 
responsible for the advice to transfer.
As such, Im satisfied that responsibility for the advice to transfer lies with SPC.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time of the 
advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time SPC advised Ms C were set 
out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like SPC, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, SPC 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Ms Cs 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits;
2)  ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to         
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and 
its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of SPCs advice to Ms C in the context of the above 
requirements.
The rationale for transferringAs far as I can tell from the limited information available, Ms C wasnt categorised as an 
insistent client, and so SPC could be confident that she would be acting upon its advice.
Ms Cs objectives, as conveyed by her as there is no available suitability report or fact find, 
were to take holidays and to buy a new car.
And as theres no suitability report, I cant see that SPC pointed out to Ms C that the starting 
assumption for an assessment of Ms Cs options, as set out above, was that a transfer 
would be unsuitable, unless it could be demonstrated that it was in her best interests in order 
to meet specific objectives. But Ill nevertheless explore these objectives further below.
But before I do that, I need to consider the transfer from a financial perspective. The 
discount rate deemed achievable for the two and a half years left to Ms Cs proposed 
retirement age of 62 was 2.7% pa. 
The critical yield produced by Liverpool Victoria  notably not by SPC, as there is no 
available evidence that a TVAS was undertaken - for retirement at age 62 with the OPS 
(rather than at the scheme retirement age of 60), at 8.7% pa, was therefore higher than both 
the discount (or growth) rate deemed achievable over the same period, and the highest 
achievable growth rate used by regulator. Given Ms Cs stated  and likely - attitude to 
investment risk, that level of growth would more likely than not have been unachievable.
And as a reminder, this growth rate was required to just match the scheme benefits. There 
needed to be a realistic chance that the benefits of the scheme could be bettered through 
transferring. As set out by the investigator, it needed to be clearly demonstrated that the 
transfer would be in Ms Cs best interests. As such, my view is that the transfer couldnt be 
justified from a purely financial perspective, especially given the valuable guarantees which 
Ms C would be relinquishing. 
But the feasibility of achieving a critical yield alone wouldnt in any case indicate suitability of 
a transfer, as set out in COBS 19.1.7b. 
I cant know whether any risk warnings were drawn to Ms Cs attention by SPC, but as it will 
in any case be aware, risk warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable advice suitable. And 
irrespective of the detail contained in any suitability report which might have been issued at 
the time, but hasnt been submitted to this service, this also wouldnt make otherwise 
unsuitable advice suitable. 
SPC needed to be satisfied, before providing its recommendation, that relinquishing the 
guarantees and taking the investment risk was a suitable course of action for Ms C.
As Ive said above, the rationale for the recommended transfer, certainly as far as Ms C was 
concerned, was to take holidays and buy a new car. And so Ive given this argument careful 
consideration.
But as with the investigator, I dont think that these would be of such necessity that they 
would justify Ms C relinquishing her defined benefits. There wasnt for example, the need to 
repay high cost debt or fund other essential requirements. They were, as noted by the 
investigator, nice to haves, but not to the extent that they would be of more importance or 
value to Ms C in the future than the guarantees attached to her OPS benefits.
There is then the wider issue about Ms Cs capacity to take financial risks with her pension 
funds which is pertinent to overall suitability here. Ms C was only three years away from her 
prospective retirement and, as far as I can tell, beyond the £500pm she was receiving as a 
widows pension and the state pension, the defined benefits were likely to have been her only source of guaranteed income. Any reduction in the benefits payable from them would 
therefore have had a considerable impact on her financial security in retirement.
However, I also dont think Ms C in any case needed to take the associated risks here. And 
in particular, Ive thought about whether Ms C could meet her objectives whilst also retaining 
the valuable guarantees offered by the defined benefit scheme. I think its likely that Ms C 
could have begun to take her scheme benefits at 59 if she wanted to access the tax free 
cash  or simply waited a few more months until she was 60 to retire at the schemes normal 
retirement age. And this is in my view more likely than not what Ms C would otherwise have 
done.
This would have meant that the scheme income would have been payable a couple of years 
earlier than had been envisaged, but if there was any income which was excess to her 
requirements, she could have reinvested this for later access. But theres no evidence that 
this was presented to Ms C as an option.
In light of this, as the guarantees attached to the defined benefits would have been of 
considerable value, these benefits should not in my view have been relinquished in favour of 
a pension fund invested in a PPP which had little chance of matching the scheme benefits  
given the critical yield.
What should SPC have done  and would it have made a difference to Ms Cs decision?
For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of taking holidays and 
buying a car of outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme. The available evidence 
simply doesnt support the position as to why these expenditures would have been 
sufficiently compelling reasons for Ms C to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees. 
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Ms C would have appreciated the important 
guaranteed benefits which she would be relinquishing for the sake of non-essential 
expenditure, and a future pension which would be diminished as a result of losing the 
scheme guarantees.
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished. 
And as the critical yield to just match the OPS benefits was considerably higher than the 
discount rate, the regulators mid (and indeed higher) rate growth assumptions, I think it was 
unlikely to be achievable to even simply match the scheme benefits. 
Im also unconvinced by the justifications for proceeding with the transfer, for the reasons 
given above. 
This was a complex matter involving many factors with which Ms C, as a layman, wouldnt 
have been familiar  hence her reliance on a professional party to take those factors into 
account and provide suitable, balanced advice.
For the reasons given above, my view is that, certainly in the absence of any evidence to the 
contrary, Ms C simply wasnt placed in a properly informed, or suitably advised, position 
when making the decision to transfer.
Taking account of Ms Cs circumstances, including her attitude to risk, her objectives and the 
guarantees which the OPS offered, my view is that SPC should have advised against the 
transfer.And I think that, had this happened, and SPC had explained the options available to Ms C, 
along with the value of the benefits she was relinquishing, Ms C would have followed that 
advice and not transferred her benefits to the PPP.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads 
to a clear conclusion  that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Ms C, nor was 
it in her best interests. The key contributing factors here are: Ms Cs attitude to risk and its 
incompatibility with the type of investment risk which would have likely been required to 
match the scheme benefits  a failing under COBS 19.1.7; and the absence of any evidence 
which would suggest a comprehensive and balanced portrayal of Ms Cs options and the 
future benefits available from the OPS  a failure to adhere to COBS 19.1.2 (2) and 19.1.8.
Furthermore, access to the tax free cash would in any case have been available to her 
through the OPS. It follows that my view is that, taking account of the critical yield, Ms Cs 
attitude to risk and matching that with the likely corresponding investment returns, it was 
unlikely that the benefits available from the OPS could be bettered through the transfer. 
As the other reasons for transferring were insufficiently compelling, when considered against 
the valuable benefits being relinquished, as required by COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 19.1.6, 
SPC would - or should - then have drawn, and conveyed, the conclusion that transferring 
wasnt in Ms Cs best interests. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15 - calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate
redress.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place.
But until changes take effect, firms should give customers the option of waiting for their
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into
force after the consultation has concluded.
As mentioned above, weve asked Ms C whether she preferred any redress to be calculated
now in line with current guidance or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published.
She has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle her complaint.
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is
identified, will provide fair redress for Ms C.A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Ms C, as far as possible,
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she would
have remained in the occupational scheme. Sovereign Private Clients Limited must therefore 
undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of this final decision, using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. 
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Ms Cs acceptance of the 
decision.
Sovereign Private Clients Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Ms Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of transferring out of the occupational scheme on Ms Cs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Ms Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Ms C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%/40%. So making a notional deduction of 15%
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Ms C within 90 days of the date
Sovereign Private Clients Limited receives notification of her acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Sovereign Private Clients Limited to pay Ms C.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Sovereign Private Clients Limited 
deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Ms C how much has been taken off. 
Sovereign Private Clients Limited should give Ms C a tax deduction certificate in respect of 
interest if Ms C asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance
or rules come into effect, Id expect Sovereign Private Clients Limited to carry out a 
calculation in line with the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Sovereign Private Clients Limited 
to undertake the above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman