DRN-2849623
The complaint
Mr C complains that his online banking account with HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first 
direct (First Direct) was blocked and left him unable to access his funds. 
What happened
Mr C held a bank account with First Direct and was informed by them they had taken the 
decision to implement additional security measures for their online banking customers. Mr C 
says he made calls to First Direct in June and July 2019 and he says he was told the new 
system wouldnt be in place until September. Mr C says he went to check his online account 
on 12 July and discovered it had been blocked. Mr C contacted First Direct and was told he 
needed to order a secure key in order to continue using the online banking facility. Mr C 
complained to First Direct as he was unable to pay builders who were working on his house.  
First Direct responded on 12 July and said they had taken the decision to implement two 
factor authentication using a secure key for their online banking customers. So, this meant 
customers would no longer be able to access their online banking by using just their security 
credentials. They said they had communicated this to all affected customers during June to 
give them notice about what was going to happen in July. First Direct said their staff had 
explained to Mr C how he could access his online banking  they said he needed to select a 
secure key. First Direct said Mr C, during a call with a member of staff on 12 July, agreed for 
a secure key to be sent to him. First Direct didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.        
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C. He thought First Direct hadnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. Mr C disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr C will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
Secure key 
Ill start off by saying I think its absolutely right and proper for a bank to update or revise 
their systems with the aim of protecting their customers from fraud. Directives were issued in 
2018 with the aim of improving consumer protection to make payments safer and more 
secure. I acknowledge that a new process may take some customers some time to get used 
to and I understand why Mr C wanted to carry out some research into First Directs new 
online banking process before committing to it. First Direct say the secure key process 
provides an improved level of security, so I cant say they have acted unreasonably in 
introducing this. 
That said, I understand Mr C is concerned as he feels he was led to believe the secure key 
process wouldnt be implemented until September, but his access was restricted in July. So, 
Ive looked at the communication between Mr C and First Direct.    
Ive seen a copy of a letter First Direct sent to their customers in June 2019. This letter 
explains First Direct are changing the way customers log in to their online banking. The letter 
is headed Your easy guide to make sure you dont lose online access to your accounts. 
The letter explains new regulations will come into effect from September which means 
customers will no longer be able to log into their online banking with a password alone. They 
will need a secure key. The letter says You need to take action now, in order to keep 
access to your accounts in future. The letter says:
Heres what you need to do.
 if you havent already, set up a Secure Key so you can continue to log on when the 
password only option becomes unavailable in September. We recommend you 
choose a Digital Secure Key because itll make logging on and setting up new 
payments quicker and easier
 to get ready for the changes coming in September, during July when you log on, 
you'll notice a new screen at the start of your log on, asking you to select a Secure 
Key. Simply choose the Secure Key option and follow the easy steps - youll then be 
able to use your Secure Key the next time you log on.    
Mr C calls First Direct on 6 June and explains he wants to set up a new payee on his 
account. During this call the agent asks if Mr C uses online banking, he explains he does 
and hes aware he needs to order a device. The agent asks if he wants to order the secure 
key now and Mr C says he doesnt. 
Mr C calls First Direct on 5 July and explains hes struggling to understand the new process 
for accessing online banking. The agent explains, from September, First Direct will be 
bringing in another level of security known as a secure key. The agent explains how the 
secure key will be used to access online accounts. Mr C asks how he needs to get it and the 
agent explains she can order it for him. Mr C asks if its mandatory and the agent explains it 
is and needs to be done by September. Mr C asks, if First Direct send the secure key to him 
now, can he put it away until September, the agent explains he can or he can order it nearer 
the time. Mr C says hell have a think about it and will get back to First Direct.     
Ive listened to the call between Mr C and First Direct on 12 July. During this call Mr C 
explains he tried to log into his online banking and he received a notice about a secure key 
activation. The agent explains from September Mr C will need to use a secure key. Mr C 
explains he accesses his online banking through a home computer and the agent explains 
from September Mr C will need to have a secure key device. Mr C explains he has opted not 
to have one. The agent explains the only other option then for Mr C will be for him to 
download the application to a smartphone and then use a digital secure key. Mr C explains 
he doesnt have a smartphone and the agent explains Mr C will then need to order a 
physical secure key device. Mr C explains he wants to do his online banking right now. The 
agent then explains Mr C is able to log in and the secure key facility wont be activated until 
September. 
Mr C then attempts to log into his online banking while on the phone to the agent and 
explains a notice is appearing which says secure key activation and wont let him proceed 
without selecting a secure key. The agent explains Mr C will need to order the secure key 
and hell have 21 days to activate it. But, this will then give him access to online banking. 
The agent offers to order the secure key for Mr C but he refuses and says he feels hes 
being blackmailed and wants access now. Mr C then asks to speak with a manager who 
explains they cant give him access. Later that day Mr C orders the secure key through First 
Direct.   I understand why Mr C feels the phone calls led him to believe he didnt need to take any 
action prior to September. But, the letter in June makes it clear that action needs to be taken 
immediately and that customers, when they log into online banking in July, will notice a new 
screen asking them to order a secure key  this is what Mr C will have seen when he tried to 
access his online banking on 12 July. I do think it mightve helped Mr C if First Direct could 
perhaps have been clearer in their explanation during the phone call on 5 July by reminding 
Mr C about the letter in June. But, I cant say there has been an error here as First Direct did 
let Mr C know to expect changes in July in order to prepare for the new process to become 
fully active in September. So, I cant say Mr C didnt receive any advance notice that 
changes would be made prior to September. 
 
Mr Cs account being blocked
 
I understand Mr C is concerned about two occasions when his access to online banking was 
blocked. During a call on 15 July, a First Direct agent asks Mr C for security information. The 
agent asks Mr C a security question in order for them to access his account. Mr C responds 
but the answer doesnt match the information on the system so the agent explains Mr Cs 
account is now locked so he wont have access to online banking. The agent then explains 
they will transfer Mr C to another department who can help unlock the account. The call then 
ends and First Direct say Mr C ended the call before he could be transferred so a failed 
security marker was added to Mr Cs account.   
During a call on 7 August, Mr C calls First Direct and the agent asks Mr C a security 
question. Mr C then says hell call back and ends the call. First Direct say, because they had 
started the security procedure and were unable to complete it, a failed security marker was 
added to Mr Cs account.
I understand this will have been frustrating and inconvenient for Mr C but I cant say First 
Direct have acted unreasonably. The account terms and conditions say First Direct will do 
everything they reasonably can to stop unauthorised access to Mr Cs account. This includes 
blocking his account to keep Mr Cs money safe. Its clear from these two calls, First Direct 
had started their security procedure but werent able to complete it satisfactorily so I dont 
think it was unreasonable for them to add a failed security marker  and in blocking Mr Cs 
account, they have acted in line with the terms and conditions.     
Terminating banking services 
I note Mr C says he was left frustrated and inconvenienced at First Directs decision to end 
their banking relationship with him. A bank can choose to do this but, in doing so, their 
decision should be fair and reasonable. The account terms and conditions say, We can also 
close your accountfor any other reason but wed always give you at least 2 months 
notice before we do. 
During the call on 12 July, Mr C asks to speak to a manager and, when transferred, he 
explains he needs access to online banking now as he needs to pay a builder. The manager 
explains they cant give him access and Mr C then asks to speak with someone more senior. 
The manager explains shes the most senior in the office at that time and cant give out 
mobile numbers for other senior colleagues. Mr C then starts swearing and the manager 
asks Mr C not to swear otherwise she will terminate the call. Mr C then continues to swear 
and the manager ends the call. 
In their final complaint response, First Direct say they have listened to some recent calls and 
are concerned by Mr Cs language and confrontational manner. They say this type of 
conduct is not acceptable and ask that there is no repetition of such language, either in writing or on the telephone. They say, if this behaviour continues, they will have no option 
but to give Mr C notice to close his accounts. 
Ive listened to a phone call from 19 August during which Mr C again uses swear words. 
Then, during a call on 2 September, Mr C discusses whats happened with an agent and 
also about calls which Mr C is waiting to receive. Its clear from this call there is 
disagreement on the steps Mr C couldve taken following his access being restricted on 12 
July. During the call, the agent explains the relationship between Mr C and First Direct has 
broken down and they can no longer offer him banking services. The agent explains they will 
be writing to Mr C to confirm this. A letter is sent in September giving Mr C two months 
notice and his account is then closed in November. 
I feel the call on 2 September does get confrontational at times, and while I accept Mr C 
raises points which he feels are valid to his account of events, its clear First Direct feel the 
customer relationship has broken down. In view of the reasons for closing Mr Cs account, 
the terms and conditions allow First Direct to take this step by giving notice. I can see that, 
from the point First Direct notify Mr C with their decision to close his account, his account 
isnt closed until two months later. So, I think First Direct have acted reasonably here.  
   
Request for information 
During a phone call on 19 August Mr C discusses the phone call on 12 July and asks why he 
hasnt yet received a recording of this call. The agent apologises and refers to a call he had 
with Mr C during which the agent went into detail about the 12 July call. The agent explains 
there was a misunderstanding in that they thought they had covered everything and that    
Mr C no longer required the call recording. The agent then agrees to send the call. Theres 
no dispute here that First Direct then sent just the one call from 12 July  this being the call 
where Mr C complains about not being able to access his online banking. I can see Mr C 
then emails First Direct asking why the disc he has received only contains one call and not 
the other calls he made. Having listened to the 19 August call I cant say First Direct agreed 
to send any calls beyond the one call for 12 July. So, I dont think they have acted 
unreasonably in initially sending this call only. First Direct say, following a further request,  
Mr C should now have a copy of all call recordings. If however, Mr C feels First Direct 
havent acted in line with his DSAR request, he will need to raise this with the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO).      
I understand Mr C feels First Direct tried to put him off requesting a full Data Subject Access 
Request (DSAR). I can see Mr C emails First Direct asking for full disclosure and they reply 
to say they were going to send Mr C the calls he had previously requested by disc, but 
wanted to clarify whether he was now wanting to make a DSAR. They say, if he is, then he 
should specify what he requires and the time periods  and whether this includes all 
correspondence and internal notes. They say its important Mr C is specific as he can be 
with a DSAR otherwise he may end up with excessive amounts of information that is difficult 
to safely dispose of. They say, with a DSAR, they have 28 days to provide the information 
requested or, alternatively, they can arrange for the calls Mr C has previously requested to 
be sent by disc. I note Mr C feels this was an attempt to put him off asking for a DSAR but I 
dont agree that was First Directs intention here. Guidelines issued by the ICO say that a 
data controller can ask a requesting party to specify the information they require. A bank will 
hold sensitive and confidential information about a customer so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for First Direct to ask Mr C whether his request was limited to something 
specific as it would avoid them having to send information which Mr C may not require.  
Complaint handlingI can see Mr C has raised concerns which relate to the handling of his complaint, in 
particular, two letters which he feels are pre-dated. Complaint handling isnt a regulated or 
other covered activity. So as a general rule, and in line with the law, if the complaint is solely 
about complaint handling, we wouldnt be able to look into things. Where complaint handling 
forms a part of a customers complaint, then we can take into account complaint handling 
when looking at the overall customer experience. In this case, I cant say the issues which 
Mr C raises about the complaints handling are an extension of the issues which relate to 
regulated activities, so I cant look into the complaint handling part of the complaint.      
I do acknowledge Mr C found himself in a position where he was unable to pay builders and 
Im sorry to hear about the reputational damage Mr C says this caused. Its clear Mr C was 
reliant on his online banking to pay builders and order supplies. Ive listened to a number of 
calls where Mr C phones First Direct and asks them to set up a new payee and also to ask 
for his ATM withdrawal limit to be increased on occasions when he needs to pay his builders 
in cash. So, I dont doubt Mr C was left frustrated and inconvenienced when he was unable 
to access his online banking on 12 July. However, I cant hold First Direct responsible for the 
impact on Mr C for the reasons I have set out. In addition to this, I think First Direct did take 
steps to assist Mr C by making payments over the phone. In addition to this, Mr C still had 
access to his money through the day even though his access to online banking was 
restricted until he ordered a secure key. So, I cant say First Direct have acted unreasonably.   
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman