DRN-2204520
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that LCC Trans-Sending Limited made the decision to block a payment. He 
said this caused delays to his mothers medical bill being paid which resulted in her staying 
in hospital longer than she needed to and facing additional costs. Mr O would like financial 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience and wants LCC Trans-Sending Limited to 
tell him the reasons why the account was blocked.
What happened
Mr O held an account with LCC Trans-Sending Limited. He used this to send money to his 
family in another country.
In February 2019, Mr O attempted to transfer £200 to help his mother with her medical bill. 
LCC Trans-Sending Limited blocked the payment and Mr Os account to review things. 
Following their review, LCC Trans-Sending Limited rejected the transfer and refunded the 
amount back to Mr Os card the day after. LCC Trans-Sending Limited didnt tell Mr O the 
reason for stopping the payment or blocking his account.
Mr O said this caused him significant distress. He explained he had to try and raise the £200 
from friends to be able to pay for his mothers medical bill so she could leave the hospital 
she was in. And he said because of the delay of sending the money, his mother had to 
spend longer in the hospital and incurred additional charges.
Mr O complained to LCC Trans-Sending Limited. They responded to his complaint and said 
they were entitled to do what they did, and they werent obliged to tell Mr O the specific 
reasons for their actions.
Mr O remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. The investigator agreed 
that LCC Trans-Sending Limited were entitled to take the actions they did. She said they had 
legal and regulatory obligations which entitled them to review and block accounts and 
allowed them to stop payments. She also explained that LCC Trans-Sending Limited had no 
obligation to tell Mr O the reasons for their actions. And because she didnt think LCC Trans-
Sending Limited had done anything wrong, she didnt think they needed to pay Mr O any 
compensation.
Mr O remained unhappy so the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigators. I know this will 
disappoint Mr O, so Ive explained my reasons further below.
Ive considered LCC Trans-Sending Limiteds actions when reviewing Mr Os account. LCC 
Trans-Sending Limited are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet 
their legal and regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied LCC Trans-
Sending Limited were acting in line with these obligations when reviewing Mr Os account. 
I appreciate Mr O said this situation caused him emotional distress  especially because the 
money he attempted to transfer was to pay for his mothers medical bill. I dont doubt this 
would have been stressful and upsetting for Mr O  but LCC Trans-Sending Limited cant 
always guarantee that funds and payment transfers are readily available.
Ive thought about the time LCC Trans-Sending Limited took to review things. While its 
known theyre entitled to review accounts, wed expect them to do so without any undue 
delays. LCC Trans-Sending Limited completed their review and made the decision to stop 
the transfer on the same day they blocked the account. Ive also seen that they took 
appropriate action to return the money to Mr O the day after. So I cant fairly say they caused 
any unnecessary delays. Im pleased to see LCC Trans-Sending Limited acted so efficiently 
when arranging the return of money to Mr O. I appreciate Mr O says he had to ask friends to 
help him raise the money to send to his mother, but I cant hold LCC Trans-Sending Limited 
responsible for that when they returned the money the day after.
I recognise Mr O would like to know the reasons why LCC Trans-Sending Limited took the 
actions they did. But they arent obliged to give an explanation when they review or block an 
account. However, Id like to reassure Mr O that based on the evidence Ive seen, Im 
satisfied LCC Trans-Sending Limited acted appropriately in the circumstances. 
Overall, I recognise how strongly Mr O feels about whats happened. So, I realise hell be 
disappointed by my decision. But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say LCC 
Trans-Sending Limited have acted unreasonably or treated Mr O unfairly when they 
reviewed and blocked his account. So, Im not going to ask them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman