DRN-4127846
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Financial Administration Services Limited (Fidelity). He said it 
didnt calculate the interest his funds had accrued on the cash account of his ISA or add this 
amount to the total when he arranged a transfer to a third party. He said the interest 
payment should have also been transferred over to the third party along with his substantive 
funds. 
Mr C said he would like to be put back in a position he would have been if Fidelity had paid 
the interest on the transfer date, and he would also like a payment for the distress and 
inconvenience he said it has caused him. 
What happened
Mr C held a stocks and shares ISA with Fidelity. Mr C said he liquidated all his bond 
investments within the ISA into cash and this amounted to around £128,329. 
Fidelity paid interest on any amount held on its cash account on an annual basis, from 1 July 
2022.
Mr C arranged a transfer of funds from his ISA with Fidelity to a third party. Mr C said the 
third party received the funds on 10 November 2022. But Mr C said, the third party only 
received the substantive amount of his funds. He said it didnt receive the interest Fidelity 
said they were paying on his cash balance. Mr C said this is from 01 July 2022 to 10 
November 2022, the date the funds were transferred. 
Mr C said he doesnt understand why Fidelity didnt pay the interest payment at the date of 
transfer and then close his account. He said he had been told by Fidelity that it wouldnt pay 
this interest payment until 30 June 2023 at the earliest, this being the end of its interest 
period, where it calculates the annual interest accrued. Mr C has complained about this and 
has asked why it couldnt have paid it at the transfer date or why it couldnt calculate the 
amount he had accrued when he asked. Mr C would like the interest paid as if it was done 
from the transfer date along with a payment for distress and inconvenience. He complained 
to Fidelity about this.  
Fidelity said in response that when Mr C transferred his ISA, it paid interest annually. It said 
it didnt have the facility to offer an estimate how much an interest payment is going to be. It 
said it hadnt made any errors and so didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr C was not happy with Fidelitys response and referred him complaint to our service.  
An investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint. She said the role of the service wouldnt be to 
interfere with Fidelitys processes on how and when it pays interest. She said she could see 
Fidelity was acting in accordance with its own terms and conditions along with its internal 
policy. She was satisfied Fidelity hadnt acted incorrectly and so didnt recommend it take 
any further action. 
Mr C is not in agreement with the investigators view. So as this is the case his complaint 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read all submissions provided by both parties and in doing so I think it is worth 
explaining from the outset about the role of The Financial Ombudsman Service as an 
informal dispute resolution service. As an ombudsman, I make decisions on the balance of 
probabilities, and as an impartial decision maker I look to make findings that are fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint. My role does not involve applying any 
regulatory or disciplinary powers and it is not in my remit to tell a business how it should or 
shouldnt operate. Rather, I need to consider here whether it has acted fairly or not when it 
has provided its services to Mr C.
I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I will explain why:
Mr C arranged for the proceeds of his ISA held with Fidelity to be transferred to a 
third party. He felt Fidelity should have worked out what interest was due and 
transferred this amount too on the transfer date. 
Fidelity on the other hand said it would pay interest on or after 30 June 2023. It said 
it would pay an annual amount and this was its policy for interest paid on cash 
balances at that time.
Fidelity had started paying interest on cash balances held on stocks and shares 
ISAs held with it from 1 June 2022. Its policy was to pay interest annually for the first 
year. It has provided terms and conditions that relate to the stocks and shares ISA 
that Mr C held along with a screenshot of a page on its website relating to how it 
manages cash held on account. 
I can see within the terms and conditions provided, that were relevant to Mr Cs 
account at the time he was arranging the transfer, that there is a section that relates 
to interest payable on cash balances. The term states When payable, interest on 
cash within your account held will be credited to your account at rates and in 
accordance with the policy set out at fidelity.co.uk/cashprotection.
So, I can see that Fidelity has included a term about interest payments and this 
states that it will make payment according to its policy. Fidelity has provided a 
screenshot of what Mr C would have been able to see on its website at the time he 
was arranging the transfer. This screenshot is what Mr C wouldve found if he had 
followed the link given by Fidelity within the terms and conditions. It is entitled how 
we manage your cash. 
Within the section for how we manage your cash is a table providing the latest 
interest rate that it is paying for cash held on account. It also describes what and 
how it charges and where cash is held. There is a bullet point underneath the table 
that says, interest is currently paid annually, in arrears. So, after reading this I can 
see that Fidelity was looking to pay interest on Mr Cs account, as it said it would in 
its policy statement set out on its website. 
I have looked again on the website and can see that it has now updated its policy and it now pays interest on cash held on account, monthly in arrears. I can see that 
its policy of paying on an annual basis lasted only for the first year that it had 
decided to pay interest on cash balances held by its customers on account. And this 
is relevant to Mr Cs complaint, as his transfer took place within this time.
Fidelity is within its rights to decide if, how and when it pays interest on cash 
balances held by its customers. This is a commercial decision taken by it. It is not 
within my remit to tell Fidelity what it should or shouldnt be doing in this regard. 
Rather I need to consider whether it has acted in accordance with its own terms and 
conditions, and in this case as it has explicitly mentioned it within the relevant term, 
its policy position. I am satisfied after looking through all of this, that it hasnt done 
anything wrong in how it has dealt with Mr Cs request, along with how and when it 
would pay the interest payment. 
With this being the case, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate from what Mr 
C has said, that he has experienced distress and inconvenience. But I have 
concluded Fidelity is not responsible for any failings here, so will not be asking it to 
do anything further in this regard.   
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr C, and I acknowledge the strength 
of his feelings in the submissions provided. But based on everything I have read and the 
findings I have given, I dont uphold his complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman