DRN-1228498
 
The complaint
Mr E complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited has unfairly charged him a second 
excess for repairs under his mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E has a mobile phone insurance policy included as a benefit on a packaged bank 
account through a high street bank. The policy is underwritten by Assurant and its 
responsible for this complaint, so I'll refer to it throughout. References I make to Assurant's 
actions also include those of its agents.
Mr E reported damage to his phone to Assurant in April 2019. Assurant accepted the claim 
and the phone was repaired and returned to Mr E in May 2019.
A few weeks later, in June, Mr E got back in contact with Assurant and told it the phone had 
experienced further damage. Assurant arranged for the phone to be returned under the 
warranty process for the previous repair. 
When the phone was inspected, it was found to have experienced water damage. Assurant 
told Mr E, this would require him to make a further claim and pay the associated excess as 
this kind of damage wasn't covered under the repair warranty. Mr E wasn't happy with this as 
he said he'd only wiped the phone with a wet cloth and, if the previous repair had been 
carried out correctly, this wouldn't have caused water damage. So he complained.
Assurant said that when the phone had been repaired, it had been quality checked before it 
was returned and it was found to be in a watertight condition. It didn't therefore accept it was 
responsible for the water damage and wasn't in a position to speculate about how it might 
have happened.
Mr E remained unhappy and asked us to consider this complaint as well as a number of 
other customer service issues. Our investigator looked at all the evidence and didn't uphold 
the complaint. He said he was persuaded by the evidence that a thorough repair had been 
undertaken and the water damage that had happened subsequently wasn't covered by the 
repair warranty.
Mr E remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I've reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for the same 
reasons. I'll explain why.Mr E believes that, following the first claim, Assurant didn't undertake the repairs correctly, 
and he says this must be why the phone suffered water damage. And because of this he 
doesn't think he should pay the second excess for the repairs relating to this new damage.
So the first thing I've considered here is the evidence relating to the first repair.
Assurant has confirmed the repairs were undertaken by a repairer approved by the phone's 
manufacturer. I've seen details of the tests that were undertaken and the repair confirmation 
from this approved repairer. This confirms the phone was put through a full quality check to 
the manufacturer's specifications, which included a pressure check to ensure the phone had 
been resealed correctly. I'm therefore persuaded that it's more likely than not the phone had 
been repaired to the required standards when it was returned to Mr E.
Having reached this conclusion, I've then gone on to consider if it was fair for Assurant to 
charge Mr E another excess fee to repair the water damage.
Assurant's initial repair was covered by a six-month warranty. Similar to many warranties of 
this type, the warranty doesn't cover all types of damage. In this case, the wording explains 
that:
"This warranty covers any mechanical or electrical failures as a result of any 
manufacturing faults or defects...."
When the phone was returned the second time, it was found to have suffered water damage. 
I think it's clear from the wording above, this isn't one of the things covered under the 
warranty. And because of that, I don't think Assurant has acted unreasonably in  treating this 
second damage as a new claim that required Mr E to pay another excess of £100.
Mr E also complained about a number of customer service issues relating to the claim. In 
summary, he said Assurant's first final response didn't address his concerns correctly, he 
was given incorrect information by a number of its representatives and it didn't provide him 
with a copy of the repair report. Assurant issued two final responses addressing these 
concerns and awarded Mr E a total of £55 compensation for the errors it made. I'm satisfied 
this was a reasonable way for it to apologise for the things it got wrong.
In summary, I won't be asking Assurant to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman