DRN-4457540
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA). He isnt happy 
that it turned down a claim under his home insurance policy.
For ease of reading any reference to RSA includes its agents.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr B made a claim under his home insurance policy after he discovered a burglary at his 
home address while he was asleep upstairs, and a substantial amount of items and furniture 
was stolen. RSA looked into the circumstances surrounding the claim and turned it down. It 
appointed an investigator to interview Mr B, but it had concerns surrounding the claim. As Mr 
B wasnt happy about this he complained to RSA but as it didnt change its stance he went 
on to complain to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B and upheld his complaint. He highlighted that 
RSA hadnt said Mr B was acting fraudulently in declining the claim, so he asked it to 
reconsider the claim and for RSA to pay Mr B £250 compensation.
As RSA didnt agree, maintaining that there were a number of discrepancies with Mr Bs 
claim, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im presently minded to form a different view to our investigator and not 
uphold this complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, but Ill explain why. 
Mr B made a high value claim following a burglary at his home address. The claim involved a 
number of high value electronic items including seven guitars and three televisions alongside 
some large pieces of furniture. Given the size of the claim RSA appointed an investigator to 
consider matters and interview Mr B about the circumstances surrounding the claim. And 
while it was undertaking these enquiries RSA was contacted by the police separately as they 
also had concerns about the circumstances surrounding the claim when they attended the 
burglary and noted a few discrepancies.
RSA considered the findings of the investigator, the concerns of the attending police officers 
and a few discrepancies around the claim and turned it down. I know it hasnt cited fraud, but 
I think its concerns are reasonable.
I say this as there are a number of concerns and discrepancies surrounding Mr Bs claim. 
There were discrepancies in the initial report of the claim including who was in the house 
during the burglary, the items reported as stolen; the amount of items stolen (which 
escalated from the initial reporting stage from around £12,000 to over double that amount); a 
previous large claim of a similar nature; the size of items stolen and the physical removal of 
items without the burglars bringing any attention to the theft.
Plus, Mr B initially claimed for a distinctive microwave before changing his mind. But the 
attending police officer is confident that he saw the microwave in place in the kitchen when 
he attended. I know Mr B has since said that his mother gave him the exact same model as 
she had a spare, but I can understand why RSA has questions about this. And there has 
been discrepancies in who was in the house at the time of the burglary and Mr B has refused 
to provide the details of his ex-partner to RSA which is surprising. I say this as there is a 
general expectancy that he should cooperate with his insurer during a claim.
The police also described the burglary as similar to a house clearance and believed that 
such a theft would take a sustained period of time to undertake. And yet no one heard 
anything overnight, heard the brake in or saw a large van or heard anything when the 
burglary took place even though the items that were stolen were heavy and such a burglary 
would make a lot of noise. Plus, the police were surprised that there wasnt any damage or 
mess caused during the burglary which they would ordinarily expect to see.
Overall, there are a number of other concerns in relation to the claim, including how access 
was gained to the house and similarities to a similar claim a few years before. So, I dont 
think RSA has acted unfairly in declining the claim.
Replies
RSA didnt respond to my provisional decision while Mr B responded in detail. 
In the main Mr B raised issues and provided evidence that had already been provided to this 
Service in support of his claim and he provided again detail in support of his good character. 
He highlighted that any issues the police had in relation to his claim were just a case of 
mistakes and inaccuracies by the police. And that the house clearance comment by the 
police was unfair and unfounded.
Mr B pointed out that he felt the burglary couldve been done relatively quickly by three 
thieves with a van. And that the majority of the items werent bulky, although he accepted a 
few items were quite large, and so the thieves would generally have been quiet in his 
opinion. He said they didnt need to be messy or ransack his house as he was targeted by 
the thieves for the high value items (especially his guitars). 
Mr B said the claim had doubled in value, from the initial report, simply because he had 
realised additional items had been taken as time went by. And he has highlighted that there 
arent any inconsistencies in his account about who was or wasnt in the property at the time 
of the burglary.
Plus, Mr B said he didnt change his mind about claiming for the distinctive microwave. He 
just didnt want to waste the insurers time once he realised he couldnt evidence his 
purchase or provide any evidence in support of his claim for the microwave. Mr B also said 
that he didnt provide the details of his ex-partner as she didnt wish to be contacted by him. 
And as she worked in the same area, and he was of a higher rank, he didnt want to leave 
himself open to questions from work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I can understand 
the further points Mr B has raised and I do have some sympathy for the position he finds 
himself in. And I note he has again provided evidence of his general good character.
However, I have to be fair to both sides when I consider complaints and given the questions 
RSA has about the circumstances surrounding the burglary I cant say it has acted unfairly in 
turning down the claim. Im pleased to see it hasnt placed a fraud marker against Mr B in 
relation to this claim but that doesnt mean its questions around the claim arent 
unreasonable. 
I know Mr B has said he withdrew the claim for the microwave as he couldnt evidence its 
purchase and for the ease of RSA. But Id have expected him to just let the claim run and let 
RSA make this decision as opposed to withdraw it. And, although I know Mr B questions the 
attending police officers recollection, the officer was clear that the microwave was in situ 
after it was allegedly stolen in the burglary. And I know Mr B has said his mum had an 
identical one that he could borrow, which broke down a few days later so he threw it out, but 
I can understand why RSA has questions around this.
Plus, I understand Mr B questions the police officers account, but he did sign a police 
statement with what he alleges had inaccuracies in. And I dont think the police burglary unit 
wouldve looked to approach RSA about Mr Bs claim if they didnt have genuine questions 
around it. 
Mr B has said that most of the items wouldnt have created much noise when they were 
taken but he has acknowledged some of the furniture was large, heavy and cumbersome  
so in effect would have created a lot of noise being removed from the house. Mr B has 
provided some photographs of his doorway and drive where he feels the thieves must have 
parked their van. But I think it is clear from the pictures that the large furniture wouldve been 
difficult to manoeuvre without making a lot of noise. Again, I can understand why RSA and 
the police have questions around this aspect of the claim. 
Mr B has also said he didnt provide the contact details for his ex-partner as he didnt want to 
seem overbearing towards her when he tried to contact her through work colleagues. I 
understand this but given her job role Im sure she would want to cooperate with the police 
or insurers investigator and provide a statement about her involvement. And she could do 
this without any direct contact with Mr B.
Given all of this, I remain of the view that I dont think RSA have acted unreasonably here. If 
Mr B has any further evidence in support of his position then I would expect RSA to consider 
it, but I dont think it has done anything wrong in turning down his claim to date. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman