DRN-4384729
The complaint
Mr W complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, allowed a fraudulent 
transaction to debit his account. 
What happened
On 23 September 2022. Mr W paid £8,044.34 to his Halifax credit card. 
At the time of his 9 November statement, Mr Ws current balance was £634.34. 
At 13.35 on 24 November 2022, an individual later discovered to be a fraudster rang Halifax. 
He asked to check his credit card balance and was told £634.34. He asked whether there 
was a direct debit in place, and Halifaxs adviser told him there wasnt. He asked for 
information about payments to the card. The adviser told the fraudster about the previous 
credit of £8,044.34, and the fraudster said hed actually made an error and had intended to 
pay £844.34. He asked for the full payment to be reversed back to his current account, and 
said hed then make a manual payment. The adviser put the caller on hold, and then said 
hed sent a text to Mr Ws phone with a code, and the caller would have to confirm that. The 
caller then claimed to be having trouble with his phone, and ended the call. 
The person later discovered to be a fraudster rang Halifax again immediately. He spoke to a 
different adviser. He again asked for the £8,044.34 credit to be paid back to him. This time 
the adviser didnt send a text to Mr Ws number, or ask why the caller hadnt responded to 
the previous text, but she just asked for the card from which the payment had been made. 
The fraudster gave an account number and sort code, but it wasnt Mr Ws. The adviser 
asked three security questions about Mr W which the fraudster answered promptly and 
correctly. The adviser then processed a £8,044.34 payment to the fraudster.
At 14.02, the real Mr W rang Halifax. Hed received a text saying Further to your recent call, 
your code is .. and hed contacted Halifax straightaway, because he hadnt called. The 
adviser said I cant see that we tried to contact you at all or sent out a message to yourself.  
It might just have been a fraudulent activity.  Mr W said it had come up as being from 
Halifax and he thought hed better ring. The adviser repeated that Halifax hadnt tried to get 
in touch with him and it was just a fraudulent activity and asked if there was anything else 
she could help with.  In fact the text had been sent because of the fraudsters first call to 
Halifax, which Ive described above.  
When Mr W was home in the evening, he checked his account online, and then rang Halifax 
again at 18.01. His Halifax credit limit was £15,000, and his genuine balance was £634.34. 
But the available credit only showed around £6900, so he was worried that there must have 
been a payment for around £8,000. The adviser told him about a pending £8,044.34 
payment. Mr W said he hadnt made that transaction, and nor was it showing on his internet 
banking. The adviser checked with a colleague, then told Mr W it was a technical issue, and 
hed transfer Mr W to another department which could deal with it. Mr W said he assumed 
that if it was technical, Halifax had just done a miscalculation and transferred it to his 
account  but it wasnt on his account. Mr W was transferred. 
Mr W asked Halifax to stop all his accounts immediately but the adviser said they couldnt do 
that. Mr W was unhappy at spending over two and a quarter hours on the phone with four 
different advisers.  He asked why theyd transferred a considerable sum of money to 
someone elses account, and said he always used his Halifax current account to pay off any 
balance on his credit card. Halifax told him it was unfortunate, and an error with their 
systems. Mr W also asked why Halifax hadnt contacted him before the payment, because 
he had never before requested this type of payment reversal of a payment already made.
Mr W complained. 
Halifax acknowledged Mr Ws complaint on 9 December, but didnt provide a substantive 
response at that point. On 29 December, Halifax issued its final response to Mr Ws 
complaint which he received on 6 January 2023.
Halifaxs final response letter said that it was declining Mr Ws complaint. It said it had 
listened to the call recording by the fraudster, and Halifax had followed procedures by asking 
security questions, which the fraudster had answered correctly. It said it could send funds to 
external accounts in certain circumstances, but had since put further measures in place to 
stop refunds being paid to the wrong person. It re-credited the money to Mr Ws account.
Halifax said the fraudster had called Halifax using a number which appeared to be Mr Ws, 
so it suggested he might have been the victim of number spoofing and suggested he might 
wish to contact his phone provider about changing his number.
Halifax said it appreciated that Mr W had spent a long time on calls, but that had been 
necessary for Mr Ws and the banks protection. It said that if Mr W provided evidence of any 
additional call charges from this, it would ensure Mr W wasnt out of pocket.
Mr W wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ws complaint. He said that an imposter had been able to 
impersonate Mr W and this shouldnt have happened.  He didnt agree with Halifax, which 
had said it hadnt made any errors. He quoted Halifaxs adviser who had said it might just 
have been fraudulent activity.  Nor had the adviser who paid out the money to the fraudster 
asked for an account name on the account to which the money was going. And Mr W had 
spent hours on the phone to Halifax trying to get it resolved. So the investigator thought 
£300 would be a fair and reasonable amount for Halifax to pay Mr W in compensation.
Halifax agreed. Mr W, however, replied that Halifax was denying the seriousness of its 
actions which had resulted in the fraud being carried out. He pointed out that Halifax hadnt 
admitted it was at fault. Nor had it disclosed what security questions it had asked, for the 
fraudster to gain access to being able to discuss the request. Mr W felt there were still an 
awful lot of unanswered questions which Halifax needed need to answer. So he asked for an 
Ombudsman to review the whole case again, and it was passed to me to consider.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. This was because Id come to a different 
conclusion to the investigator about the amount of compensation. Issuing a provisional 
decision gave both sides the opportunity to comment on it, by the date set, before I issued a 
final decision.  
Before issuing the provisional decision, I considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.In the provisional decision, I said that Halifax accepted that the £8,044.34 was paid out to a 
fraudster and re-credited Mr Ws account on 1 December. As the fraud on 24 November and 
the credit on 1 December happened within the same statement period, Mr W wasnt charged 
interest on it before it was re-credited. So there was no outstanding financial loss for me to 
consider.  The issue I considered was therefore about how much compensation for distress 
and inconvenience would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Looking at the different elements:
Initial security
The call recordings didnt show the initial security questions asked, which Halifax had said 
would have been completed on its internal computer system. I saw computer evidence that 
the call appeared to come from the same number as Mr Ws, though that wouldnt 
necessarily have been used as security. It did appear however that Mr Ws genuine phone 
number may have been spoofed, and I said that he will want to investigate this if he hasnt 
already done so.   
I looked into whether voice recognition was used as initial security for the fraudsters call. Mr 
W told us that for five or six years, his voice had been set up as his password, and he then 
had to go through additional security which consisted of questions he chose when initially 
setting up his accounts. Halifax, however, said that voice hadnt been used for the 
fraudsters call, and it said that voice activation would only be used if this had been set up by 
Mr W. So the evidence conflicted about why voice security wasnt in use here, and 
unfortunately I couldnt tell why it wasnt. However, I listened to call recordings with Mr Ws 
voice, and also the call recordings with the fraudsters voice. They were very different, so Id 
have expected any voice system to have blocked the fraudster. 
First call from fraudster
In the first fraudster call at 13.35 on 24 November, the fraudster asked many questions 
about transactions, as Ive set out above. This should have raised the alarm with Halifax. It 
was very unlikely that a genuine account holder would have needed to ask so many. The 
information disclosed by Halifaxs adviser included whether or not he had a direct debit, and 
all about transactions going back to September  including telling the fraudster about the 
£8,044.34 credit which the fraudster then requested. 
The genuine Mr W had access to statements, and I considered Halifax should have referred 
the caller to those. I raised this with Halifax, which accepted that the fraudsters many 
questions should have raised suspicion with its adviser.  If Halifaxs adviser had acted 
appropriately here and hadnt disclosed the account information, the fraud wouldnt have 
happened in the same way. So this had a major impact on Mr W.
Second call from fraudster
After being told that a text had been sent to the real Mr Ws phone, the fraudster made an 
excuse to ring off, and immediately rang again to speak to a different adviser. Halifaxs 
adviser on this call made multiple errors.
- She didnt identify that a text message had been sent but not successfully passed. As 
this security measure had been attempted but not passed, I considered the adviser 
should have required another text message response.  I asked Halifax about this, 
and it agreed that the adviser should have picked up on this. I find that if this had 
been done, the fraud couldnt have gone ahead. - Instead, the fraudster was simply asked for the card from which the credit had been 
made. This gave the fraudster the opportunity to provide the account number and 
sort code to which he wanted the money to be sent. Very surprisingly, Halifax didnt 
carry out any checks at all on this. The adviser didnt check on its systems that this 
was the number from which the credit had been made. Nor did she ask for the name 
on the account to be credited or, more importantly, check for Confirmation of Payee 
on the account, which would have shown whether it was a genuine account in Mr Ws 
name. If asked for the account name, the fraudster would no doubt have said it was 
an account in Mr Ws name, but Confirmation of Payee would have shown this to be 
untrue.
- Another factor which should have raised an alarm was the fact that it had been two 
months since the £8,044.34 payment had credited the account. If a genuine account 
holder had really, as the fraudster claimed, mistyped this amount instead of £844.34, 
its highly likely theyd have discovered this very soon afterwards, within hours or a 
few days. Instead, it was over two months since this payment  disclosed to the 
fraudster by the first Halifax adviser  had taken place. This should have led to 
further investigation.
- Halifax subsequently told us that its policy was that refunds of previous credits could 
only be made if going to an internal account, or the account from which any incoming 
direct had been sent. This explains why the fraudster had  previously asked Halifax 
whether he had a direct debit set up. By paying the money to another account, the 
adviser broke Halifaxs rules.
So there were multiple serious errors by the Halifax adviser during the second fraudster call, 
which resulted in the fraud being able to go ahead, and the consequent distress and 
inconvenience to Mr W.
Initial calls by the real Mr W
Ive set out above that the real Mr W rang Halifax at 14.02, because hed received the text 
which had been generated as a result of the fraudsters first call. By the time Mr W rang up, 
Halifax had allowed the fraudulent withdrawal, so it was by then already too late to stop it, 
even though Mr W rang within minutes of receiving the text.  But even though that call 
couldnt have changed the outcome, the adviser denied that Halifax had sent any message 
at all, which was incorrect. It was unacceptable when the adviser said it was just a 
fraudulent activity. So this adviser didnt properly check the records, and didnt take Mr Ws 
call seriously, even though it flagged potential fraud. 
Customer service after the real Mr W reported the problem
I looked at Halifaxs customer service after Mr W reported the problem in his second call on 
24 November. In my provisional decision, I said that I found this was very poor. 
Mr W was passed around between multiple advisers. I appreciated that fraud calls are often 
long, but it shouldnt have been necessary to be passed between multiple advisers, in 
multiple departments, so many times. Not all of them gave him accurate information; he 
wasnt told which departments he was speaking to or why he was being transferred; he was 
put on hold for long periods; and some of them were brusque with Mr W. For example one 
adviser, after Mr W had already spent hours on the phone, said brusquely that she didnt 
understand why Mr W had (politely) said he wasnt happy. That call alone took an hour and 
twenty minutes, and I considered that that particular adviser was especially unhelpful, 
verging on rude. She also sighed audibly when having to do her job checking Mr Ws account. I found that the very poor service he received on the phone from Halifax would 
have been frustrating, annoying and worrying for Mr W.
I also noted that in Halifaxs final response letter, it declined Mr Ws complaint. In all the 
circumstances, this was inappropriate, because Halifax had made several serious errors, as 
Ive detailed above. One of the ongoing concerns which Mr W expressed to us was that 
Halifax hadnt admitted it was at fault. I sympathised with this, and felt Halifax should have 
done so after the errors it had made. I recognised that the fraudster did know the answers to 
several security questions, and I also wouldnt expect Halifax to disclose all its security 
questions to any customer. But equally, it was reasonable that Mr W would want to know 
exactly what personal information the fraudster had known, so hed know what to protect or 
change. Our investigator told Mr W what the three security questions answered verbally by 
the fraudster were. Its not possible for me to know how the fraudster obtained enough 
information about Mr W to pass the banks security questions. If Mr W is concerned that he 
is at risk of falling victim to identity theft, he may wish to consider applying for a Protective 
Registration to reduce that risk. 
Technically, Halifax acknowledged Mr Ws complaint within the 15 days allowed in relation to 
this type of complaint, and gave him referral rights to this service. But when Halifax 
substantively replied to Mr W on 29 December, it declined his complaint despite the fact that 
it had made clear errors, which I find was a failure of service.
Compensation
We award compensation for distress and inconvenience when a bank has made a mistake 
or acted unfairly and this has caused an impact on the customer. 
When anyone suffers a fraud, most of the distress and inconvenience is caused by the 
fraudster. We cant compensate for the impact of the underlying fraudulent act in and of 
itself, but we can look at the impact the banks actions had, to make a bad situation worse. 
When we award compensation, we dont base it on punishing the bank, but on the impact on 
the customer. Here, however, Halifaxs failings led to the fraud not being prevented, as well 
as poor customer service, and I considered the impact on Mr W was significant. 
I considered Mr W would have been very anxious indeed about what happened. He had the 
prospect of having lost over £8,000, and hed have been worried about how his personal 
details had been compromised. He had to speak to multiple advisers, in different teams, and 
there are over two and a half hours of calls. Fraud calls are often long, but I considered 
Halifax should have been able to action what was necessary in a much shorter time. And as 
Ive set out above, some of the advisers provided very poor service indeed, treating him 
brusquely as a nuisance, instead of treating him kindly as the victim of something which 
should never have happened if Halifax had acted to prevent the fraud in the first place. 
Mr W didnt receive reassurance that his accounts would be blocked from further frauds, and 
hed have felt that Halifax wasnt taking the events seriously  for example the dismissive 
comment when Mr W first reported a problem. Even if Mr W had received a phishing text 
message that wasnt really from the genuine bank, the advisor saying that it might just have 
been fraudulent activity was dismissive and did not do enough to tell Mr W of the scam risks 
to look out for when a fraudster impersonates a bank. And the call handler on the longest 1 
hour 20 minutes call, after Mr W reported the problem, was particularly brusque and 
unhelpful to Mr W. Mr W kept his patience despite provocation.
Taking into account all these factors, in my provisional decision I said that I considered that a 
fair and reasonable amount of compensation for Halifax to pay Mr W would be £1,000.Responses to my provisional decision
Mr W said he was satisfied with the provisional decision. He said that maybe 
Halifax would accept the findings and implement more stringent procedures to try and 
ensure this type of fraud is prevented, and that Halifaxs employees would receive additional 
training in both fraud prevention and customer care.
Halifax replied that it agreed to pay Mr W £1,000 as in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered, and in the light of the responses to my provisional decision, I consider 
that my provisional decision was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I order Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to pay Mr W £1,000 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused him through its multiple failures to prevent the 
fraudulent transaction, and its very poor customer service after he reported the problem.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman