DRN-3458330
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy that TSB Bank plc (TSB) closed his current account and then registered a 
fraud prevention marker against him. Hes also unhappy that TSB retained a final payment 
from his employer.
Background
In August 2021, Mr S received a payment of £2,000.00 into his account. £200 was 
immediately withdrawn at a cash machine. Mr S then transferred the remainder of the funds 
to other accounts in his name.
TSB subsequently received a notification from the third-party bank, responsible for sending 
the £2,000.00 payment to Mr S account, stating that the payee of the funds had reported 
being a victim of fraud. TSB reviewed Mr S account and as a result of its investigation, it 
decided to close Mr S account and record a fraud prevention marker.
Mr S complained about TSB closing his account and also recording a fraud prevention 
marker. TSB looked at Mr S complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr S remained dissatisfied he 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr S concerns. He didnt think that TSB had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr S complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Fraud marker
Ive started by looking at the concerns Mr S has about the fraud marker TSB recorded 
against him. The marker that TSB has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse 
of facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr S is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that TSB must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr S account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
TSB also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr S was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr S allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr S complaint, I need to decide whether I think TSB had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr S account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that TSB did have enough to 
record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr S 
account in August 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr S was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Mr S told TSB that the funds were sent to him by his cousin. He said his cousin told him he 
wanted to buy a car but couldnt withdraw the amount needed in one go. Mr S went on to say 
that he was going to withdraw the funds from another account which would allow him to 
withdraw them in one go. He was asked whether he had the registration of the car that was 
being bought but Mr S said he would need to check this with his cousin. During this call TSB 
told Mr S would be closing his account with immediate effect. Mr S responded saying his 
cousin was never supposed to send the funds to his TSB account but the account he was 
able to withdraw funds in one go from. And when he subsequently called to register his 
complaint he asked whether a fraud marker would be recorded against him.
When questioned by our adjudicator, Mr S said his cousins girlfriend was the one who sent 
the funds to him for a car. He never questioned the payment because she was sending it on 
behalf of a family member. When our adjudicator asked why Mr S cousin simply didnt get 
his girlfriend to withdraw the funds for him, Mr S said that this was because his cousin didnt 
want to travel across London to pick up the funds. Finally, when our adjudicator asked why 
some of the funds were withdrawn from his TSB account and the rest transferred to more 
than one account in Mr S name, Mr S said that he was trying to save on charges that his 
other providers added for making withdrawals.   
Ive thought about what Mr S has said. But Im afraid that what hes said simply isnt 
plausible. Instead the available evidence suggests that he was complicit in the fraud which 
took place. Im concerned by the steps that were taken to reduce the amounts withdrawn 
from different accounts. Mr S says that he did this to minimise the charges he would have to 
pay for withdrawing these funds. 
But hes also said that his cousins girlfriend was never supposed to transfer the funds to this 
account and was instead supposed to transfer them all to the account which would have 
charged him for cash withdrawals. And even then as the fees charged would be a 
percentage of thee total amount withdrawn, this doesnt explain why the transfers were 
made in smaller amounts, as the amount paid in charges would still be the same. Furthermore, Im also concerned that Mr S hasnt been able to provide anything at all to 
support his version of events or that he passed on the funds he withdrew to his cousin. Its 
clear from Mr S initial discussion with TSB that he suspected this payment may have been 
responsible for his account being blocked. And as this is the case, I dont think that it is 
unreasonable for him to have kept anything he had.  
Im afraid the implausibility of what Mr S has told us coupled with him being unable to 
provide anything to corroborate his version of events mean that I cant reasonably conclude 
he was an unwitting participant here. And Im satisfied that TSB was reasonably entitled to 
conclude it was more likely than not that M S was complicit in his account receiving 
fraudulent funds. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that TSB did have sufficient evidence 
to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr S account. As this is the case, I dont think that it 
was unfair for TSB to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. 
The closure of Mr S account
I now turn to the closure of Mr S account. The terms and conditions of Mr S account 
permitted TSB to close it with immediate effect where he was using a service or money 
illegally (or he was allowing someone else to do so). Ive already explained why I think TSB 
was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr S account had been used for fraudulent 
purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in recording the fraud prevention marker. 
As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted TSB to close Mr S account. 
So overall I dont think that TSB acted unfairly towards Mr S when recording the fraud 
marker and closing his account and Im not upholding these parts of his complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr S  especially in light of the ongoing impact 
hes said the fraud marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Mr S 
might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies for a 
Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent.
The final credit into Mr S account 
Mr S is also unhappy that TSB failed to return the final payment that his employer made into 
his account. I contacted TSB to ask whether it had realised that the credit for £92 paid into 
Mr S account, on 1 September 2021, entitled August additional was from Mr S employer 
and appeared to be related to his salary. TSB initially said that it wasnt aware that this credit 
was any sort of salary payment despite it being from Mr S employer.
I then informed TSB that this payment was a salary payment and should be returned with 
interest at 8% simple per year. TSB then replied saying that it applies the First-in first-out 
rule (which is also known as Claytons Rule and what Ive referred to it as from here). And its 
application here means that even though a balance of £567.37 remained in Mr S account 
when it was closed these were fraudulent funds (not Mr S salary credit of £92) and Mr S 
wasnt entitled to any of this.
Ive thought about what TSB has said. But I dont see how it can have applied the rule it says 
it has and reached this result here. At its core, Claytons Rule presumes that the funds which 
are paid into an account first are the ones first paid out. Mr S account had a balance of 
£654.33 at the time his salary credit of £92 came in on 1 September 2021. It isnt in dispute that on £654.33 remaining in Mr S account on 31 August 2021 were the 
remaining fraudulent funds. But the £92 salary credit entered after this and were the last 
funds to enter Mr S account. This means that, under Claytons Rule, the spending TSB has 
referred to came out of the £654.33  not the £92  as the £92 would be the last funds to exit 
Mr S account because they were the last to enter. Clearly the spending referred to didnt 
exceed £654.33 as £567.37 remained at the time the account was closed.
So if TSB says Claytons Rule applies here, which it clearly is, it follows that £92 of the 
£567.37 closing balance were Mr S funds and only £475.37 remained of the fraudulent 
funds. As it is TSB that is arguing it normally applies Claytons Rule and that it should also 
apply here, Im satisfied that it needs to return £92 to Mr S. This means that Im upholding 
this part of Mr S complaint and TSB should pay Mr S £92 plus interest, at 8% per year 
simple, from the date the account was closed to the date it makes payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im partially upholding Mr S complaint. TSB Bank plc needs 
to pay Mr S £92 plus interest, at 8% per year simple, from the date his account was closed 
to the date it makes payment.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman