DRN-3440833
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car acquired with finance from Blue Motor Finance Ltd wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In October 2021 Mr W was supplied with a van and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with BMF. At the point of supply the van was around 8 years old and had covered 77,910 
miles.
Mr W experienced issues with the van failing to start. In December 2021 the van broke 
down. Mr W contacted the supplying dealer, but it refused to help him and said the van 
wasnt under warranty.
Mr W complained to the broker who had introduced him to BMF. It advised him to obtain a 
diagnostic report. Mr W wasnt happy to do this and instead arranged for a new battery to be 
fitted. This didnt resolve the issue so Mr W complained to BMF.
A diagnostic took place in December 2021. Following this, the broker advised Mr W that the 
diagnostic showed that the fault wasnt present at the point of supply and said it wasnt 
accepting responsibility.
Following this, an independent inspection took place in January 2022. The engineer 
concluded that the starter motor needed replacing and that the selling agent wasnt 
responsible as the fault wasnt present at the point of supply.
Mr W was then advised by the supplying dealer that they would be charging him for storage, 
so he had the starter motor replaced and collected the van.
BMF gave Mr W referral rights to this service without issuing a final response.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that having considered the diagnostic 
report and the independent inspection and having taken into account the vans age and the 
mileage covered, he thought the fault was due to general wear and tear.
Mr W didnt agree. He said hed only used the van for 1  months and 2500 miles when the 
starter motor failed, and he felt this was due to an issue which was present at the point of 
supply. Mr W said he didnt think so much weight should be placed on the independent 
report because the engineer hadnt carried out a full inspection of the starter motor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Supply of Goods (Implied Terms) Act 1973 is relevant to this complaint. This implies a 
term that the goods are of satisfactory quality when supplied. Vans are of satisfactory quality 
if they are of a standard that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into 
account the age and mileage of the van and the price paid. The quality of goods includes 
their general state and condition, as well as fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
I would expect a second hand van to have a degree of wear and tear and to require more 
repairs and maintenance than a brand new van. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I 
would need to be satisfied that the van had an inherent defect, as opposed to a fault which 
developed due to wear and tear.
Theres no dispute that the van has a fault. However, not every fault will render a van of 
unsatisfactory quality. In order to decide whether the van was of satisfactory quality, I need 
to consider all of the available evidence, including the engineering evidence.
The supplying dealership carried out a diagnostic in December 2021. This stated that the 
cause of the breakdown was the sudden failure of the starter motor. The dealership was 
unable to check for fault codes because the battery had been replaced. The supplying dealer 
concluded that the fault with the starter motor wasnt present at the point of supply.
An independent inspection was carried out in January 2022. The engineer concluded that 
the van needed a new starter motor and that the fault would not have been present at the 
point of supply.
Ive taken into account what Mr W has said about the independent report. He doesnt think 
the report is sufficient to rebut the presumption that the fault was present or developing at 
the point of supply. Mr W feels that the engineer reached his conclusions based on what the 
supplying dealer told him. He makes the point that the engineer only carried out a limited 
inspection of the starter motor, which didnt include the electrical connections and wiring.
Ive considered the independent report carefully. Whilst I agree that the engineer has stated 
that he wasnt able to inspect the electrical connections of the starter motor, I dont think this 
means that his report is unreliable, or that his conclusion that the starter motor needs 
replacing is wrong. I can see that the engineer has made reference to the diagnostic carried 
out by the supplying dealer, but again, I dont think this means that the engineers report isnt 
reliable. Theres nothing to suggest that the supplying dealers diagnostic isnt correct in its 
diagnosis that a replacement starter motor is required. The diagnosis of a failed starter motor 
is supported by the fact that when the start motor was replaced, the fault resolved.
Both of the engineering reports conclude that the fault with the starter motor wasnt present 
or developing at the point of supply. Mr W hasnt provided any engineering evidence of his 
own to challenge this. 
Ive taken the mileage of the van since the point of supply into account. Mr W covered 
around 2500 miles before the car broke down. I think its unlikely, given the mileage covered 
that the fault was present at the point of supply. If it had been, I think the starter motor would 
have failed sooner. 
Ive taken into account what Mr W has said about only having the van for 1  months before 
it broke down. Ive considered whether the van was sufficiently durable, because durability is 
one aspect of satisfactory quality. However, because of the mileage covered since the point 
of supply, Im unable to say that the van wasnt durable.
I understand that Mr W will be disappointed by my decision but on the available evidence, 
Im unable to say that the van wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply so I wont 
be asking BMF to do anything.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman