DRN-3458521
The complaint
Mr K complains Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) unfairly chased him for payments on his 
credit card account whilst on a payment holiday and marked his credit file.
What happened
Mr K says he contacted Vanquis in June 2020 following an agreed three-month Covid 
payment holiday, covering April 2020 to June 2020. This was to explain his circumstances 
had changed and his wife had been hospitalised. Mr K says he believed he was on a further 
three-month Covid payment holiday at this point, but despite this he received numerous 
letters and telephone calls chasing for payment and Vanquis then marked his credit file. 
Mr K is upset with the way he has been treated by Vanquis and is looking for them to 
remove any adverse entries on his credit file, clear the balance of his credit card account 
and pay him compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Vanquis didnt feel it acted unreasonably when chasing Mr K for payment to his credit card 
account or marking late payments on his credit file, as the payment holiday had expired in 
June 2020. Vanquis says it has an obligation to correctly report its customers activity to the 
credit reference agencies. Vanquis says as a gesture of goodwill it would refund £107 in 
charges to Mr Ks credit card account provided he made an immediate payment of £35. 
Mr K wasnt happy with Vanquiss response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld Mr Ks complaint. The 
investigator felt Vanquis, knowing the financial situation Mr K was facing in June 2020, 
should have provided a further three-month Covid payment holiday until September 2020, in 
line with the guidance provided by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The investigator 
also felt Vanquis had acted unreasonably when it continued to chase Mr K for payment, 
knowing of his financial circumstances and his wifes hospitalisation. 
The investigator instructed Vanquis to :
Apply the payment holiday to the account, back dating it from July 2020 when it shouldve 
been offered. Remove any adverse information reported to the Credit Reference Agencies 
from the day Mr K called them. Pay Mr K £200 in compensation for the unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience caused. Vanquis agreed with the investigators view and proposed 
further actions it would take to settle the matter.
Vanquis agreed to recall Mr Ks credit card account from the debt collection agency and 
discuss a repayment plan with him, and to: 
Remove the late payment entries form Mr Ks credit file from July 2020 to September 2020 
inclusive and additionally from November 2021 through to February 2022.
Refund three late payment fees for July 2020 to September 2020.
Agree to pay £200 in compensation to Mr K and an additional £100 for the delay in clarifying 
the settlement. Making a total of £300 in compensation. 
The investigator felt Vanquiss offer was fair, but Mr K didnt agree and asked for the matter 
to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
Its clear Mr K has been through a stressful time and that must have been difficult for him. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Vanquis acted fairly when it marked his credit 
file and chased him for payment to his credit card account, even though Mr K believed he 
had a payment holiday in place. 
The first thing to say here is the investigator has outlined to Vanquis its responsibilities 
surrounding the arrangements for consumers, when a Covid payment holiday has been 
agreed. Here, Vanquis agreed a Covid payment holiday for three months expiring in June 
2020 and that is what I would have expected to see, in line with the guidance provided by 
the FCA at that time.
Like the investigator, I am satisfied when Mr K contacted Vanquis in June 2020 explaining 
his financial circumstances, a further three-month Covid payment holiday should have been 
agreed. Its also fair to say if it had been agreed the numerous telephone calls Mr K received 
wouldnt have been necessary and in any event being aware of Mr Ks request to limit these 
calls, because of his personal situation and his wifes hospitalisation, it could have been a 
little more sympathetic.  
What is important is Vanquis have accepted its failings here and agreed to put matters right 
in line with the investigators view and have also agreed to the following : 
To recall Mr Ks credit card account from the debt collection agency and discuss a 
repayment plan with him. Remove the late payment entries form Mr Ks credit file from July 
2020 to September 2020 inclusive and additionally from November 2021 through to 
February 2022. Refund three late payment fees for July 2020 to September 2020. Agree to 
pay £200 in compensation to Mr K and an additional £100 for the delay in clarifying the 
settlement. Making a total of £300 in compensation.
Mr K was sent the details of this offer but didnt feel it went far enough and is looking for 
further compensation for the trouble and upset this has caused him and for his credit card 
debt to be written off. 
While I understand Mr K feels strongly about this matter, I cant tell Vanquis to write off the 
balance of his credit card account, after all he has benefited from the use of those funds. 
What I can consider is whether the offer made by Vanquis is fair and reasonable. Vanquis 
have accepted that it should have made available a further three-month Covid payment 
holiday in June 2020 and have agreed to rectify any adverse entries on Mr K s credit file as 
a result of that not being in place. Additionally, Vanquis agreed to refund any late payment 
fees charged as a result, putting Mr K back into the position he would have been had the 
further three-month payment holiday been in place. 
Its also worth saying that its not the role of this service to penalise businesses when mistakes are made, but to ensure matters are put right and I am satisfied this has happened 
here, given Vanquis improved the investigators suggested redress to £300. 
It is important that Mr K now opens a dialogue with Vanquiss collections department to 
agree a suitable repayment plan going forward. While Mr K will be disappointed with my 
decision, I am satisfied that Vanquiss offer to settle matters is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
I instruct Vanquis Bank Limited to:
Recall Mr Ks credit card account from the debt collection agency and discuss a repayment 
plan with him.
Remove the late payment entries form Mr Ks credit file from July 2020 to September 2020 
inclusive and additionally from November 2021 through to February 2022.
Refund three late payment fees for July 2020 to September 2020.
Pay £200 in compensation to Mr K and an additional £100 for the delay in clarifying the 
settlement. Making a total of £300 in compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Vanquis Bank Limited to:
Recall Mr Ks credit card account from the debt collection agency and discuss a repayment 
plan with him. Remove the late payment entries form Mr Ks credit file from July 2020 to 
September 2020 inclusive and additionally from November 2021 through to February 2022. 
Refund three late payment fees for July 2020 to September 2020. Pay £200 in 
compensation to Mr K and an additional £100 for the delay in clarifying the settlement. 
Making a total of £300 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman