DRN-3661957
The complaint
Mr M complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) didnt pay him as much pension as it said
it would.
What happened
Mr M said he phoned Legal & General on 13 May 2020 and was told the value his pension
lump sum would be. He was told it was fixed at the date he had submitted the last papers
that were needed to process his request, which was 7 February. An amount of around
£77,000 was quoted to him. He said he was relieved as he had been worrying about the
markets. However when the lump sum was paid on his 55th birthday it was about £12,000
less. He said he had earmarked the money and wanted the full gross amount. He was told
Legal & General transferred his policy to ReAssure in September 2020.
ReAssure apologised and offered Mr M £200 for distress and inconvenience. It said Mr M
first called in January and was told he could complete papers but his payment couldnt be
processed until he was 55. He was also informed that if he took all the money, he would be
subject to emergency tax but would be able to reclaim any overpaid tax from HMRC. A quote
for taking the full pot option was sent on 30 January 2020. The quote was clear that the
values were not guaranteed and could go up and down. The actual amount would be the
amount available when he accessed his pension pot and depend on values on that date.
It said Mr M called again on 3 February and it was explained that 25% would be tax free. Mr
M completed and retuned the payment instructions forms that were received on 7 February
2020. This was acknowledged on 13 February and it confirmed it would start to be
processed on his 55th birthday. Mr M called again on 12 March concerned about the value of
his fund. The adviser confirmed he was invested in the Aggressive Growth Fund and that the
value wasnt guaranteed. He was told that if he had concerns about how the fund was
performing, he could switch funds and sent Mr M details later that day. Mr M called again on
13 May and asked when the value would be fixed. The agent wrongly said this was the date
it received the last of the papers it needed which was on 7 February 2020. In fact the agent
should have said it would be on his 55th birthday. In the light of the mistake it sent Mr M a
cheque for £200.
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said the following.
ReAssure had accepted its agent made a mistake when Mr M called on 13 May, as it quoted
a value for his pension from February 2020. I needed to consider the consequence of that
mistake and whether to make an award for any financial loss and/or distress and
inconvenience.
Where there is a mistake this service seeks to put Mr M back as close as possible to the
position, he would have been in but for the mistake. That was not the same as putting him in
the position he would have been in had the mistake been a correct statement of the value of
his policy, which it wasnt.
The law is clear that (save in very exceptional circumstances of very serious ill health) he is
not entitled to draw his pension until age 55. This is something Mr M accepts and is clear he 
has never suggested otherwise. What is in dispute is when the value should be fixed for the
payment made at age 55.
I have seen the papers issued to Mr M on 30 January 2020 and these state that
the values of your pension pot shown above arent guaranteed and can go down as well as
up. The actual amount available when you access your pension pot will depend on the
values at that date.
It also states that you would like to take your full pension pot as a cash lump sum. 25% of 
this amount is tax free and 75% is taxed in the same way as earned income. The amount 
you receive from us may not be the full amount you are due. Your payment may be taxed 
using an emergency tax code, We will confirm the details once the payment it made
I think this makes clear that the value isnt fixed until it is accessed and that it is paid subject
to emergency tax. As I said Mr M accepts, he couldnt access before age 55.
I asked ReAssure to provide further evidence to support the value of the payment being that
on Mr Ms birthday ( being the date he opted to access his benefits). It said the policy was a
standard money purchase plan so the value was always linked to the value of the
investments and there were no guarantees attached to the policy. So in effect it is saying it
could not have fixed the value for payment at a date prior to it being accessed.
It referred to pension scheme booklets and the rules governing the scheme. It said these
said the following:
The amount available to provide your benefits at the Pension date will be the value at that
date of the units credited to your Arrangement, once any outstanding deductions have been
made in accordance with "Deductions from Units".
I thought this confirmed what it has said about there being no guarantees of value and the 
value being fixed at the date he accessed the pension.
It also referred to the scheme rules regarding the commencement date in section 6.1:
'payment of benefit derived from the Member's fund commences from the earlier of the
Scheme's Default pension age or such other date as is chosen by the member. The member
cannot normally choose a date earlier than his or her normal minimum pension age. '
It also said it confirmed that the policy would be valued at the date of receipt of the
retirement notice, or the date of retirement. Neither of these dates can be earlier than the
date the member can access their pension benefits, which in this case would be Mr Ms
birthday in May 2020 date.
On that basis, while Mr M submitted all papers in advance of his retirement date, the value
would be that at the later date of retirement.
Based on what I had said above, it was clear that what Mr M was told over the phone on 13
May was a mistake. He wasnt entitled to the amount quoted as the value could not be fixed
before his 55th birthday. So I didnt think Mr M was ever entitled to the higher amount of
money stated on 13 May.
However at law, if Mr M had acted to his detriment, in reliance on the statement on 13 May,
the position could be different.Mr M told us he had earmarked the money and wanted the full gross amount. But planning
how to spend the money when received was not the same as acting in reliance on a 
statement about how much it will be. I asked Mr M what he would have done differently had 
he known the amount that would be paid was the higher value stated.
Mr M said he would not have budgeted to clear his credit card nor purchased a HiFi system
in May 2020. The impact was that his credit card debt remained higher for much longer. As
he was anticipating clearing the credit card debt it must have been incurred before he knew
about the higher figure and not in reliance on the amount.
Mr M also said he spent a significant sum on a hi fi system. Mr M confirmed this was
purchased on 26 May and supplied evidence of payment. But he also confirmed the
payment from ReAssure arrived in his bank account on that day as did confirmation of
payment. So, as I pointed out to Mr M, he must have known the amount he was being paid
was lower than he had been told on 13 May, before he committed to the purchase. So I
could not reasonably conclude that he acted in reliance on the higher figure in deciding to
commit to that purchase.
It was clear that ReAssure made a mistake but for the reasons given I thought Mr M had 
received what he was always entitled to and was in the position he would always have been 
in had no mistake been made.
Where there was a mistake, I could make an award for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by it. Such an award was intended to reflect the impact on Mr M not to compensate 
for perceived financial loss. I appreciated that it was very disappointing for Mr M. His hopes
were raised and then dashed and I could appreciate that was upsetting. I thought an award 
of £200 would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so I didnt propose to direct
ReAssure to make any further payment and think ReAssure has acted fairly and reasonably.
I didnt propose to uphold the complaint.
ReAssure didnt make any further comments. Mr M said he felt my decision was explained 
by the fact this service was financed by our membership, by which I assume he meant 
ReAssure contributes to the cost of funding this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has challenged my provisional decision, I have not changed my mind. I note 
Mr Ms comments but would say that this service acts in an independent manner to reach a 
decision that is fair and reasonable. I remain of the view that that decision I made is fair and 
reasonable to both parties.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman