DRN-3859820
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that HSBC UK Plc has only partially refunded the money he lost to a scam.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Mr T tells us he saw an advert for a mobile phone on a well-known online marketplace 
which tends to deal with second-hand sales. He thought the seller was offering a good 
price so made an offer, which was accepted. He initially tried to pay through a digital 
wallet, but the payment was rejected. So he ended up sending a bank transfer for £200 
followed by a further payment for £210 the next day after the seller said they wouldnt 
send the phone until hed paid for it in full. The seller failed to send the phone and ended 
contact after the second payment was received. Mr T then reported that hed been 
scammed to HSBC.
HSBC considered Mr Ts claim under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code. The 
bank said the Confirmation of Payee check couldnt match the beneficiary name when 
Mr T set up the new payee. And it had given effective warnings about buying goods and 
services when Mr T went on to make the first payment of £200. So it thought Mr T ought 
to have done more before putting the payment through and refused to refund any of the 
that payment. HSBC similarly thought Mr T ought to have done more with regards to the 
second payment but, as it didnt give any warnings, it refunded £105 (50% of the 
transaction). Mr T didnt think hed been treated fairly, so asked us to look into his 
complaint.
Our investigators thought HSBC had done enough. They didnt think the bank ought to 
have provided any warnings. And they didnt think Mr T had a reasonable basis for 
believing the seller was legitimate. Mr T disagreed, so the complaint has come to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for much the same 
reasons.
Theres no dispute that Mr T made the two payments to the scammer from his HSBC 
account. That means they were authorised by him. So the starting point under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 and the account terms and conditions is that Mr T is responsible 
for the payments along with any resulting losses.
But the matter doesnt end there. Ive also considered whether Mr T should have received a 
refund of the money he lost under the provisions of the voluntary Contingent Reimbursement 
Model Code (the Code). HSBC has signed up to the Code, which is designed to reimburse 
victims of authorised push payment scams. But the Code places a level of care on Mr T too.
Under the CRM Code, and relevant to this particular complaint, a bank may choose not to 
reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee 
was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods 
or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. 
The customer ignored what the Code refers to as an effective warning in relation to the 
payment being made.
Overall, I currently think HSBC has done enough to establish that Mr T didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing the person he was sending money to was legitimate. I say this 
having taken the following into account:
Mr T has been unable to share with us any of the messages he exchanged with the 
scammer and suggests that the marketplace removed them. He has, however, been able 
to share messages hes exchanged with other sellers relating to other purchases. And 
the marketplaces website indicates that messages in the account holders inbox cant be 
manually removed. It seems somewhat strange that Mr T cant provide this evidence.
Mr T says hes used this particular marketplace a number of times in the past, had paid 
substantially less than what the items would cost first-hand and had never previously 
been scammed. But I also notice from the evidence hes provided that he usually pays 
for buyer protection. He didnt do so in this case even though the mobile phone cost 
quite a lot more than the other items hed bought. He chose instead to send the money 
by bank transfer after his attempts to pay via a digital wallet failed. It also seems that he 
had some concerns about the item and/or payment method which is why he arranged to 
split the payment in two.
Despite what Mr T has said, I agree with the investigators that the price he and the seller 
agreed for such a popular phone was, at that time, too good to be true and ought to have 
raised concerns. 
I dont agree with HSBC that the warning it gave Mr T was effective. It warns that he could 
be falling victim to a scam but doesn't give any advice about how to check the seller was 
genuine. And, despite what HSBC says in its final response letter, the warning doesn't say if 
an offer sounds too good to be true, it could be a scam. So I dont agree that Mr T ignored 
an effective warning. But I also dont think the bank ought to have identified a scam risk 
here. I dont think either transactions was sufficiently unusual or out of character to warrant 
intervention. 
Im satisfied that when HSBC was made aware of what had happened it tried to recover the 
money. Unfortunately, those attempts seem to have been unsuccessful.
Its my understanding that HSBC has already refunded £105 and, in the circumstances, I 
cant fairly instruct it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman