DRN-2610690
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited handled a medical expenses 
and repatriation claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
Mr Ms represented by Ms M.
What happened
Mr M was abroad in December 2019. Unfortunately, he became very seriously unwell. AXA 
agreed to transfer Mr M to another country for treatment in January 2020. It also arranged 
for Mr Ms wife to accompany him and met some costs associated with her extending her 
trip. Mr M required acute inpatient treatment abroad for several months.
In late May 2020, Mr Ms treating doctor who Ill call Dr O, told AXA that he could put 
together a rehabilitation treatment package with the aim of Mr M being fit to travel in three to 
four weeks time. This was on the proviso that Mr M would receive GP care and community 
support once he returned home. Dr O proposed that this plan would begin at the end of May 
and that Mr M would likely be fit to travel on around 21 June 2020.
AXA got in touch with Mr Ms GP, who Ill call Dr S, in mid-June 2020 to look into arranging 
home care. In summary, Dr S said he could look into arranging home care for Mr M, but it 
wasnt something that was generally arranged by a GP and could take a few weeks. He also 
let AXA know hed need medical reports from Dr O to understand what care Mr M would 
need.
During mid-June, AXA began to look into arranging Mr Ms repatriation. It told Ms M that if 
home care couldnt be arranged for Mr M at the point he flew back to the UK; hed have to be 
admitted into a local hospital for follow-up community care to be arranged. Ms M was very 
concerned by this, first because shed understood that home care would be arranged and 
secondly, because Mr M was at a higher risk of Covid-19 and she was worried about 
hospital transmission. Despite Ms Ms concerns, AXA continued to look into repatriation 
options, including Mr M being admitted to an NHS hospital, with the aim of flying him back to 
the UK on 7 or 8 July 2020.
Dr S wrote to AXA on 2 July 2020. He said it was clear to him that hospitalisation upon Mr 
Ms return wasnt necessary and the best thing for him would be to be returned directly to his 
home for community care. Dr S also said he was confident he could arrange this, but he 
couldnt give a definite timeframe. AXA took the decision to delay Mr Ms repatriation until 
home care had been arranged, but it seems Ms M was still under the impression that it was 
planned for the 7 or 8 July 2020. 
Finally, AXA agreed to repatriate Mr M and his wife in first class seats, on 21 July 2020, 
having arranged a doctor and nurse escort. However, due to Covid-19 testing rules in the 
country Mr M was staying in, despite the escorts having tested negative for the virus prior to 
travel, they were still required to take another test and quarantine until they received their 
result. This meant Mr Ms repatriation was delayed until 22 July 2020. Ms M said that Mr and 
Mrs M also experienced some difficulties during the journey, such as a lack of a wheelchair 
or baggage assistance.
Ms M was unhappy with the way AXA had handled Mr Ms claim and she complained. In 
particular, she was unhappy with the changes to the repatriation plan which AXA had 
proposed. And she said that AXA had told her that if Mr M wasnt repatriated in line with its 
plans, then cover under the policy would be withdrawn. 
AXA agreed that thered been issues with the way it had handled Mr Ms claim and it paid 
him £100 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. Ms M wasnt happy with AXAs offer, so 
she asked us to look into Mr Ms complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator thought that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
AXA shouldve begun to make arrangements with Dr S for Mr Ms return in late May 2020. 
He didnt think that AXA had kept Mr Ms family updated as well as it shouldve done. He 
also thought that AXA shouldnt have pressed ahead with repatriation plans until Dr S had 
provided a response to Dr Os medical reports in mid-June 2020. He was satisfied that AXA 
had told Ms M that cover would be withdrawn if the family declined the planned repatriation 
on 8 July 2020. He felt that this wouldve caused further confusion and distress to Mr M, 
given the conflicting medical advice thatd been given. He was also persuaded that AXA 
hadnt indicated to Ms M until a late stage that the planned repatriation (to a hospital) had 
been called-off. And he felt that given AXAs experience in arranging repatriations and given 
the Covid-19 pandemic, it wouldve been reasonable for it to check the relevant testing 
regime for the country Mr M was staying in. He felt the further delays caused by its failure to 
do so had caused Mr M additional upset. Overall, he felt that AXA should pay Mr M total 
compensation of £350 to recognise the distress and inconvenience it had caused.
Neither Ms M nor AXA accepted the investigators recommendation. Ms M considered it 
wouldnt even begin to cover the distress and upset thatd been caused, or her call costs. 
AXA said that itd paid out a substantial amount of money for cover which Mr M and his wife 
werent strictly entitled to. Itd met many of Mr Ms wifes costs of around £4500 under the 
compassionate overseas cover provided by the policy  even though she wasnt covered by 
this section, and indeed, wasnt insured under the policy. It said Mr M had been judged fit to 
fly on 8 June 2020. As the policy only covers treatment which meets the requirement for 
immediate treatment, it said it would normally have repatriated Mr M back to the UK at this 
point and arranged a hospital admission in the UK. It wouldnt usually get involved in 
arranging home care, but it had done so to try and assist Mr M. It didnt think it should be 
penalised for delays in a process it was unfamiliar with. The cost to it of waiting to repatriate 
Mr M until home care had been arranged was over £52,000. It said it wasnt bound to follow 
the treating doctors recommendations. And it hadnt been medically necessary for Mr M to 
fly first class - itd paid for this at the familys request. It said that a medical repatriation was 
always stressful, but it had tried to support Mr M and his family. So it maintained that £100 
compensation was fair.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive decided that AXA must pay Mr M total compensation of £350. Ill 
explain why.
First, while Ive summarised the detailed background to this complaint, Id like to reassure 
both parties that Ive considered everything theyve provided. I havent commented on each 
and every issue theyve raised though and our rules dont require me to. Instead, Ive 
focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr Ms policy and the circumstances of 
his claim to decide whether AXA handled it fairly.
Did AXA pay out more than it was liable for?
Ive first considered the terms of Mr Ms policy, as these form the basis of his contract with 
AXA. As Mr M was transferred to a hospital in another country for treatment of a serious 
illness, I think it was appropriate for AXA to consider his claim under the International 
Emergency Medical Assistance section of the policy. This provides cover for policyholders 
who become ill abroad and need emergency in-patient treatment. This section specifically 
excludes: any medical condition which does not need immediate in-patient (i) hospital 
treatment or which does not prevent the insured member from continuing to travel or to 
work.
The available medical evidence shows that Mr M was considered to be fit to fly at least a 
month before his repatriation. Dr O had confirmed that he wouldnt receive any further 
benefit from staying in hospital. So on a strict interpretation of the policy terms, AXA was 
entitled to repatriate Mr M back to the UK at that point. And Mrs M wasnt insured under this 
policy. So her repatriation costs under this section of the policy werent covered and neither 
was she entitled to any benefit under the compassionate overseas visit section of the 
policy. Thats because this section only covers travel and accommodation costs for one 
person to travel to a policyholder who was previously travelling alone and only if the 
arrangements were made by AXA. Neither of these applied to Mr Ms (or his wifes) situation. 
The policy only covers costs for a similar standard of travel. Id add that in this case, the 
medical evidence supports the fact that Mr M didnt need a first-class flight home. The 
evidence indicates that business class seats (which were the seat-type Mr M had originally 
booked) would be sufficient to meet his medical needs whilst he was flown home. It seems 
AXA arranged an upgrade to first-class seats to try and allay Ms M (and the familys) fears 
about Covid-19. Again, it paid out costs it wasnt strictly required to pay.
Its clear then that AXA did step outside of a strict interpretation of its contractual terms and I 
appreciate its paid around £60,000 more than it was liable for. I think this was a very fair 
response from AXA and its clear that it did seek to try and support Mr M and his family.
Should AXA pay a separate award of compensation?
However, the fact that AXA did choose to exercise its discretion to pay significantly more for 
the claim than it was liable to is a separate issue to the level of compensation I think is 
appropriate for failings in its service. This means that while I think AXA handled parts of the 
claim more than fairly, some of its actions did cause Mr M trouble and upset for which I feel 
he should be compensated. Ill explore these in greater detail. Its important that I reiterate 
that any compensatory award I make is only for Mr Ms distress and inconvenience  as he 
was the person insured by the policy. While I do accept that Mr Ms family were extremely 
worried and I can see that Ms M in particular had a great deal of correspondence with AXA, I 
wont be awarding any amount for their trouble or upset.Ive taken on board the fact that the circumstances of Mr Ms repatriation were unusual. I say 
that because usually, AXA would have no role in arranging ongoing care once its 
responsibility to repatriate a policyholder has been fulfilled. And secondly, Mr Ms repatriation 
took place during a global pandemic, when the availability of global flights were limited; 
countries were subject to stringent travel restrictions and Mr M was, as Ms M told us, 
extremely clinically vulnerable to Covid-19. So I dont doubt that arranging Mr Ms 
repatriation in these particular circumstances, while ensuring his safety was more 
complicated than many of the repatriations its previously arranged. So I think AXA did take 
many reasonable steps to help Mr M and his family.
Nevertheless, I do think there were some clear failings in some of the service it provided. I 
too have reviewed Dr Os report and I can see that from 20 May 2020 onwards, the treating 
team had decided that there was little benefit to Mr M staying abroad in hospital after 21 
June. Dr Os report stated that the aim was to facilitate Mr M returning to the UK for 
rehabilitation as soon as possible. I note that Dr O clearly said: 
In addition, preparation should be initiated as early as possible in (the) UK to support his 
return. We advice (sic) that his primary care physician agrees to provide the necessary 
medical support on his return, and discussions to provide community nurse support, 
adaptation of his home as recommended by (the) occupational therapist and physiotherapist, 
be started as soon as possible.
In my view then, AXAs team was on notice that Dr O felt Mr M could safely be returned to 
the UK from 21 June 2020 onwards, so long as a robust care package was in place. So Im 
satisfied it was given a clear, effective deadline. I think it shouldve got in touch with Dr S 
fairly shortly after it received this report to look into whether he could make the necessary 
community care arrangements. But AXA didnt get in touch with Dr S until 13 June 2020  
only about a week before Dr Os rehabilitation plan was due to end. Dr S told AXA a few 
days later that he thought arranging such a community package would take three-four weeks 
to arrange. This inevitably delayed Mr Ms return. And it seems to me that if AXA had 
contacted Dr S around 20 May 2020, he couldve begun to arrange a community package far 
sooner and broadly in the timeframe Dr O had suggested.
Im pleased to see that AXA ultimately decided not to go ahead with repatriating Mr M until 
the community care was in place. I appreciate it isnt strictly required to place more weight 
on the treating doctors view, but I think it was fair and reasonable for it to do so here. Mr M 
and his family had been given a proposed repatriation plan which stated that hed be going 
directly home, although if home care couldnt be provided, he might need to be admitted. So 
it must have come as a shock and concern when Ms M was told that Mr M would be going to 
hospital following his repatriation as the community care package couldnt be arranged. 
Given that Dr S and Dr O didnt feel that Mr M needed acute inpatient care and the 
increased risk to Mr M of hospital-acquired Covid-19, I do think that this caused him 
additional upset at an already stressful time. 
And I note that despite sending Dr S updated reports from Dr O, which explained Mr Ms 
state of health and what care he might need, on 23 June for his comments, AXA did press 
ahead with the proposed repatriation plans at that point. I do appreciate it was entitled to do 
so. But as it had specifically sent Dr S Mr Ms records for his comments, I think it mightve 
been reasonable here for it to wait until Dr S had provided his own view. And I can see from 
email correspondence that Ms M was told that if Mr M refused to proceed with its proposed 
repatriation plan on 7 or 8 July 2020, (which involved an NHS hospital admission), then 
cover would be withdrawn from that point. While this mightve been strictly true, I do think the 
confusion around what was happening and when wouldve caused Mr M more upset and 
worry. Im also mindful that Ms M wasnt told that it looked like the planned repatriation on 7 or 8 July had been called-off until 6 July  one day before. So I think Mr M wouldve been left 
wondering and worrying about what the next steps were and whether hed be liable for any 
ongoing care costs abroad.
Its also clear that despite AXAs travel agents advising it that the medical escorts would 
only need a negative Covid-19 test result to enter the relevant country, this wasnt the case. I 
think, given the prevailing circumstances, that it wouldve been reasonable for AXA to check 
the relevant government restrictions when booking the escorts travel to Mr M. If itd done so, 
it couldve allowed more time for the tests to be taken on arrival and for the escorts 
quarantine in their hotel, so that the booked flight could be taken. Instead, Mr M wasnt able 
to travel on 21 July 2020, due to the delay in getting the tests results and again, he was left 
in a position of worry and uncertainty. Ms M says that he was left stressed and worried about 
the arrangements and couldnt sleep. So Ive borne this in mind too when considering a fair 
compensation award.
I do accept that all medical repatriation claims will cause policyholders and their families a 
degree of upset and worry. Especially during a global pandemic. But in this case, I do think 
some of Mr Ms trouble and upset was avoidable and was down to errors on AXAs part. 
Given how ill hed been and the constant updates Ms M had to chase up to give him, Im 
satisfied he was caused significant distress and inconvenience. So I agree with our 
investigator that a total award of £350 (less the £100 AXA has already paid) is a fair award 
to recognise the impact of those errors on Mr M at a difficult time. I understand AXA sent Mr 
M a cheque for £100 when it issued its final response letter. If this hasnt been cashed and is 
now out-of-date, AXA should include this amount in its total payment.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to pay Mr M total compensation of £350 (less the £100 
its already paid if this cheque has already been cashed).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman