DRN-2051148
The complaint
Ms A complains that Assicurazioni Generali SpA (Generali) unfairly ceased her income 
protection benefit. 
Ms A is represented in this complaint, but for ease I will refer to all submissions as being 
made by her directly.
What happened
Both parties are aware of what happened, so Ive only provided a brief summary below. 
In 2014 Generali accepted a claim that Ms A had made through her employers group 
income protection policy. The claim related to Ms A being incapacitated, and unable to work 
because of low mood, depression and anxiety. 
Generali carried out periodic reviews of the claim, and in 2019 said there were 
inconsistencies within Ms As stated abilities. Generali said it could no longer conclude she 
remained incapacitated because of this, and made the decision to cease her policy benefit. 
Ms A complained. She said Generali had based its decision on incomplete information and 
without consideration of wider medical evidence which still supported her incapacity. But as 
Generali maintained its decision, she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think the evidence Generali had relied on did enough to establish that 
Ms A was no longer incapacitated. They said the wider evidence continued to suggest that 
Ms A was unfit for work. And they recommended Generali reinstated the claim and paid the 
backdated benefit with interest. 
Ms A agreed with our investigators recommendation, but Generali didnt. 
Generali said itd ceased benefit because of misleading statements Ms A had made about 
her true functioning capability. It said it hadnt sought further medical evidence about those 
inconsistencies because its decision wasnt made on medical grounds. And that although it 
acknowledged the wider medical evidence still supported the activities Ms A had been 
involved in, said it didnt support the stated capabilities shed previously provided as 
accurate. So, as no agreement was reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy explains Generali will pay regular benefit to an incapacitated member  defined 
as incapable of performing the material and substantial duties of their occupation. 
Generali accepted Ms A met this definition when accepting liability for her claim in 2014. It 
was entitled to review her claim and cease paying regular benefit if she was no longer 
incapacitated. But the onus was on Generali to demonstrate this.
Generali has concerns about a number of Ms As abilities such as her stated ability to 
concentrate versus her ability to study and sit exams. And her stated levels of fatigue versus 
activities such as personal training and UK-based travel for tattoos shown on her social 
media accounts. Generali also has concerns about Ms A not stating that she had done some 
treasury work for a local choir, and says that the subject matter of her studies is in context 
with her occupation and is further evidence of her functional capacity. 
I appreciate that Generali has chosen not to assess this claim from a medical perspective, 
and I can see why it has concerns about the validity of some of Ms As reported abilities 
given what it saw on her social media accounts. But as I set out above, in terminating her 
benefit, the onus is on Generali to demonstrate that Ms A is no longer incapacitated. 
The nature of social media itself can at times be subjective. So it is important that it is 
considered it in the round, and alongside the wider evidence available in this complaint. 
Ms A has responded at length to each of Generalis concerns. For example she says that 
her social media posts represented her celebrating small victories when she was able to do 
something of note. And shed chosen to focus on positives when phrasing the content of 
those posts too. 
I am aware that Ms As commentary is also subjective, but I do think it adds wider context to 
some of the concerns Generali has raised. And I dont think what she has said is out of sync 
with what the wider medical evidence in this case highlights either. For example, in June 
2019 a Psychotherapist that had been working with Ms A since 2014 explained that Ms A 
had been able to undertake her studies because the course was part time, she could do the 
work at home, and could sleep when needing to do so. 
The Psychotherapist also advised theyd encouraged some of the activities Ms As social 
media had reflected; namely getting tattoos and attending a gym. And in relation to Ms As 
ability to work said they did not think she was confident and robust enough yet to resume a 
responsible job. The lead up to this will take more time. 
In July 2019 a Clinical Psychologist also said that over the course of their work with Ms A 
some steps forward had been made. But they too advised this had not been sustained, and 
set out that Ms A would have struggled to return to work this year, even though this did 
seem more likely during the middle phase of the therapy.
Further, in September 2019 Ms As GP also said she wouldnt cope with the demands and 
pressures of her role. They said Ms As part time studies would improve her self-worth and 
her develop concentration. And also said that exercise was recommended for all patients 
with depression and should be continued to aid any recovery. 
A charity that provides specialist support and had been working with Ms A since 2014 also 
said theyd seen Ms A make small steps in her recovery in a letter of September 2019. And 
they too felt she was still a long way from being well enough to resume work because of the 
symptoms of her depression. 
So, although I appreciate this case is finely balanced, I too am of the opinion that the 
available evidence adds both wider context to the concerns Generali has raised, and 
suggests that Ms A is remains incapacitated. I understand why Generali had cause for 
concern here, but on this occasion I dont think it provided quite enough to demonstrate that 
the inconsistencies it was concerned about were evidence of Ms A no longer being 
incapacitated. So for those reasons I cant fairly conclude that it acted reasonably in ceasing 
Ms A benefit when it did. And I agree that her benefit should be reinstated.
Putting things rightGenerali need to put things right by:
reinstating Ms As benefit from the date this terminated. Generali should add 8% 
simple interest to the backdated payments from the date each payment was due to 
the date of settlement. *
Ms A should note that the payments will be paid to her employer and not directly to her, 
because it is they who are the policyholder. 
 My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Assicurazioni Generali SpA should put 
things right in the way I have set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
* If Assicurazioni Generali SpA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms A how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms A a certificate, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman