DRN-2259883
The complaint
Its agreed that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs M says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs M took out at the same time as she applied for a 
store card in April 2000 whilst shopping in the store. 
The policy covered Mrs M in the event she was off work sick or she lost her job unexpectedly 
and became unemployed. It cost £1 per £100 of the amount owed on her card each month. 
It paid 15% of the outstanding monthly card balance while Mrs M was off work  until she 
either returned to work or the card was paid. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs M mainly told us that she had no need for the policy as her employer wouldve paid her 
full sick pay and she had family help and an endowment policy she couldve relied on.
Mrs M asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint so it comes to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
After looking carefully at the complaint, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain my reasons.
AXA has given us a copy of the store card application from the time of sale. Mrs M has 
signed in the PPI part of the form, next to where it says Yes, I would like to protect my 
Account with Account CoverPlease debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium 
until further notice. 
It also says here: Only sign this box if you require Account Cover.
So I think it wouldve been clear to Mrs M that PPI an optional feature offered with the store 
card she was applying for. 
Mrs M signed the completed application next to where it says Sign it only if you want to be 
legally bound by its terms. 
So I think AXA made Mrs M aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. 
No PPI recommendation was made by AXA. This means that AXA didnt have to check if the 
policy was suitable for Mrs M. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mrs M enough clear 
information to decide if the policy was right for her, taking into account her personal 
circumstances.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs M wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
better information had been provided. 
Mrs M was entitled to 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months on half pay from her 
employer. 
This policy couldve paid a benefit for as long as Mrs M was off work sick or disabled. So it 
couldve paid out for longer than Mrs M was entitled to sick pay through work  and cleared 
her card balance if she wasnt well enough to go back to work. 
The policy wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mrs M with a useful benefit at a 
difficult time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve had some extra costs as a result 
of being sick or disabled.
This benefit was also available to Mrs M in the event that she lost her job unexpectedly and 
was out of work. 
So its fair to say that PPI offered Mrs M better protection than she couldve relied on getting 
through her employer. 
Having the policy gave Mrs M more dependable cover than relying on family to help out in 
the event of money problems as circumstances can always change. 
Mrs M told us she had an endowment policy for savings at the time in. Having PPI meant 
Mrs M could keep her endowment running so she could cash it in later or to provide her with 
financial security. So I can see why she mightve felt PPI was useful in order to protect her 
long term savings. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Mrs M had sufficient cash 
savings in place that wouldve given her a benefit comparable to having PPI. 
For all these reasons, I think the policy offered Mrs M useful benefits in her particular 
situation. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But this didnt affect Mrs M. She couldve 
taken advantage of all the main policy benefits. So I dont think its likely that having more 
information about what the policy didnt cover wouldve put Mrs M off taking out the PPI.
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Mrs M clear enough information about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But the information Ive seen suggests that she chose to take out the policy when 
she didnt have to. The policy provided the cover briefly described on the application form. 
And it looks like she was happy to pay for it at the time as she agreed to pay the monthly 
premium when she filled in the application form. It seems to have been affordable for her  
so thats not a reason for me to uphold the complaint. 
Looked at overall, given the useful benefits PPI offered Mrs M, I think it unlikely she wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance I think she still wouldve taken out the policy. So I dont find that Mrs M has lost out as a result of anything that AXA did wrong  and 
theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman