DRN-1577139
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc gave her an incorrect figure for the future 
payments shed need to make to her mortgage after it reduced her mortgage debt by 
£12,622.12. It said the monthly payment would be around £80 a month, when in fact the 
monthly payment would be around £250 a month.
Bank of Scotland had paid that £12,622.12 to Ms Rs mortgage account as part of the 
redress for a previous complaint that had been upheld, and shes queried how Bank of 
Scotland reached that figure.
The background to this complaint is extensive and well known to both parties so I wont 
repeat it again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Ms R, but although Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. 
Im aware this complaint is part of a much larger picture for which Ms R has already received 
substantial compensation from Bank of Scotland. But I cant decide this complaint in that 
context; I have to look at this individual mistake, and the impact of it, in isolation. 
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. This was a simple human error that meant Ms R was led to believe that her new 
monthly payments would be lower than they actually were. This is a mistaken statement of 
facts; a misrepresentation. When were looking at complaints of this type we consider the 
appropriate remedy is to place the consumer in the position they would be in if the incorrect 
information hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they would be in if it had 
been correct. 
If the correct information had been given, Ms R would have been told sooner than she was 
of the monthly payments shed need to make. Ms R could never have been in the position 
where she only needed to pay the (wrong) lower figure. As the mistake was corrected, Ms R 
has already had the appropriate remedy in that she was told the true monthly payments 
needed.
Ms R hasnt been financially disadvantaged by this error as she was overpaying her 
mortgage anyway by paying £500 a month. As that amount is still a significant overpayment 
even based on the correct monthly payment, Im satisfied that whilst Ms R has had a loss of 
expectation (in that she expected her £500 to be a greater overpayment than it actually is) 
she hasnt lost out financially as a result of being given the wrong information.
Bank of Scotland has provided us with various explanations and calculations of how the 
£12,622.12 figure was reached. In simple terms as part of the redress for an earlier 
complaint Bank of Scotland compared the balance of Ms Rs mortgage as it was at that time, 
with the amount it would have been if the mistakes identified hadnt been made. This 
showed that Ms Rs balance should have been £18,554.56 at the point of calculation, and so 
Bank of Scotland made a payment of £12,622.12 to the account to adjust it down to that 
level from the £31,176.68 it was at.
Bank of Scotland has provided us with some calculations to support that and having 
considered those I cant see any errors in them to Ms Rs detriment. However, these are 
complex calculations that need to be carried out using specialist mortgage software. For that 
reason, I cant say for certain that there are no errors to Ms Rs detriment as we dont 
provide a mortgage account reconstruction or calculation service. But, as I said, based on 
the information Ive seen I havent identified any obvious errors to Ms Rs detriment that 
would be apparent without carrying out that full audit.
Its open to Ms R to ask a suitably qualified independent accountant to carry out a specialist 
account audit for her to check if the £12,622.12 sum was correct. That would have to be at 
her expense, though if an error were found to her detriment, she could include any 
reasonable costs of finding it in any complaint that followed. So Ms R can get that audit 
carried out (if she wishes), Bank of Scotland must now provide her with all the background 
information and calculations to allow that to be done so she can pass those on.
Its not our role to fine or punish a business and our awards arent punitive. Clearly no 
amount of compensation can change what happened; all I can do is consider the impact of a 
businesss actions on the consumer. I also look at the awards of compensation weve made 
in other similar cases. Having done so Im satisfied that the £150 compensation put forward 
by our investigator is fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Bank of Scotland plc to;
pay £150 to Ms R, and
send Ms R the background information and calculations for the £12,622.12 reduction 
so she can get those independently checked if she wants.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or reject my 
decision before 25 November 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman