DRN-2683620
The complaint
Miss P complains that the wording of Westfield Contributory Health Schemes private dental 
policy is unclear and ambiguous.
What happened
Miss P took out a private dental insurance policy in November 2019. In December 2019, 
Miss P had an implant consultation with her dentist, which was followed-up in March 2020, 
with an appointment for a denture impression. The total cost of these treatments was £390  
the implant consultation cost £75 and the impression consultation cost £315. Miss P made a 
claim for these costs on her private dental insurance policy.
Westfield accepted the claim. It assessed it under two sections of the policy. It considered 
the impression appointment to be dental treatment and it paid the full cost of this, as the 
annual limit under this heading was £345. And it considered the implant consultation 
appointment to be dental maintenance. It told Miss P that this section of the policy had an 
annual benefit limit of £85. Miss P had already claimed under this section of the policy for 
other dental maintenance work before the implant consultation. So Westfield said she only 
had £30 cover remaining under this section, which it agreed to pay. But it said Miss P would 
need to pay the shortfall amount of £45.
Miss P was unhappy with Westfields decision. She felt the table of benefits was unclear as 
to the level of cover she was entitled to. She considered it implied that she was covered for 
double the dental maintenance and dental treatment annual benefit limits. As a gesture of 
goodwill, Westfield agreed to pay Miss P the £45 shortfall under another section of the policy 
and therefore her claim was settled in full. But Miss P still felt the policy wording was 
ambiguous and so she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought Westfield had treated Miss P fairly. She thought itd been 
reasonable for Westfield to consider Miss Ps claims under the dental maintenance and 
dental treatment sections of the policy. And she felt the table of benefits clearly set out the 
limits that applied to each of these sections. So she didnt think Westfield needed to do 
anything more.
Miss P disagreed. She didnt think the table of benefits made a clear distinction between the 
dental maintenance and dental treatment limits and the accidental damage treatment limit. 
So she still considered that the policy was ambiguous.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Miss P, I think Westfield has treated her fairly. 
Ill explain why.
It seems to me that there are two key issues for me to decide. Does the policy paperwork 
make the applicable benefit limits clear? And did Westfield settle Miss Ps claim fairly? Ill 
consider each issue in turn.
Does the table of benefits make the benefit limits clear?
Ive first considered the welcome letter which was sent to Miss P when she took out her 
policy in November 2019. Page two of this document sets out a table of premiums and 
benefits. It breaks down each section of cover and immediately next to each heading, the 
annual benefit limit is set out. Dental maintenance is the first section listed in the table. This 
says:
MAINTENANCE: Examinations, scale and polish (hygienist services), X-rays -£85.
Immediately underneath, the cover for treatments is set out. This says:
TREATMENTS: Fillings & root canal treatments, extractions, crowns and bridges - £345.
Towards the bottom of the table, cover for accidental damage treatment is set out. This 
states a total annual cover limit of £1660. This heading is also asterisked. If a policyholder 
goes on to refer to the asterisked sentence, the letter says:
In respect of Private Level 2, this benefit is calculated by doubling the benefit shown for
maintenance and treatments, which is in addition to the standard emergency call out and
emergency treatment benefit.
I appreciate Miss P feels strongly that the table of benefits suggests that shes entitled to 
double the maintenance and treatment limits and so she feels she had a substantial amount 
of remaining benefit which she was entitled to claim before the next policy renewal. I 
disagree. I think the table makes it clear that Westfield applies an annual limit of £85 to 
maintenance costs and an annual limit of £345 to treatment costs. In my view, the accidental 
damage treatment is clearly separated from the maintenance and treatment headings. And 
the inclusion of the asterisk and separate explanation makes it apparent that the double 
benefits only apply if a policyholder is undergoing accidental damage treatment. So I dont 
consider the table to be drafted in an ambiguous way and I think Westfield has set out the 
applicable benefits in an understandable format.
Did Westfield settle Miss Ps claim fairly?
In order for Westfield to settle Miss Ps claim under the higher accidental damage treatment 
benefit, it would need to be satisfied that her dental claim related to an accidental impact 
injury. This section of the policy says:
All claims must be for a dental injury that has been the direct result of an accidental impact, 
such as a fall etc. It must be indicated on the form that the treatment relates to accidental 
impact injury.
The invoice from Miss Ps dentist shows that she had an implant consultation and an 
impression taken for dentures. Theres no indication that either of these treatments related to 
treatment of an accidental impact injury. So I think it was fair for Westfield not to deal with 
the claim under this section of the policy. Instead, I think it was reasonable for Westfield to 
conclude that Miss Ps claim fell squarely within the definitions of maintenance and treatment 
Ive set out above. One appointment related to a consultation (maintenance) and I think it 
was fair for Westfield to treat the impression appointment as dental treatment. On this basis, Im satisfied it was entitled to apply the relevant policy limits when it settled Miss Ps claim. In 
fact, it agreed to pay Miss Ps full claim, despite not being obliged to do so, as a gesture of 
goodwill. I think this was a more than fair response in the circumstances.
Overall, I dont consider that Westfields policy wording is unclear and Im satisfied it settled 
Miss Ps claim fairly. So Im not telling it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman