DRN-2037045
 
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Haven Insurance Company limited. Hes unhappy about the way 
his claim was handled under his motor insurance policy, and the liability decision that was 
reached. 
Haven Insurance Company Limited is the motor insurer for Mr Cs policy. To keep things 
simple, I have referred to Haven Insurance Company Limited, and its agents, as Haven. 
What happened
In December 2019, Mr C said he was driving through a junction where roadworks were being 
carried out. He said while driving through, a third party vehicle  which was an ambulance  
collided with the rear side of his car while trying to pass. Shortly after the collision took place, 
Mr C said the third party driver admitted full liability. So Mr C contacted Haven to make a 
claim. 
Haven contacted the third partys insurer in December 2019 to report the collision. 
The third partys insurer responded to say that the third party vehicle had its blue lights and 
siren on at the time of the collision. It said the third party entered the junction and waited for 
other road users to proceed. It said a road user in front of Mr C had stopped to give way to 
the third party vehicle, and Mr C overtook this road user which caused the collision to occur. 
Haven contacted the local council in attempt to obtain CCTV footage to try to establish who 
was more likely at fault for the accident, and to what extent. A witness was also contacted by 
Haven who provided a statement. Haven considered the witness statement and put this to 
the third party insurer with the intention to settle the claim in full against the third party driver. 
But the third party insurer disputed this and requested liability should be split 50/50 based on 
the conflicting information. 
Haven considered this and contacted the witness again, who said both parties could be 
considered at fault for the collision.
Mr C disputed this. He said he did overtake the other road user in front of him, but the third 
party vehicle caused the collision and therefore, the claim should be settled in full against the 
third party driver. Mr C also disputed that the third party had its blue lights or sirens on at the 
time the collision took place. As Mr C didnt agree to a 50/50 split in liability, he decided to 
carry out repairs to his car himself. 
Mr C complained to Haven about the adequacy of its investigation into establishing who was 
at fault for the collision. He also raised complaint points about the overall service received, 
and that Haven had redacted some documents following a subject access request. As no 
resolution could be met, Mr C brought a complaint to this service for investigation. 
Our investigator carefully considered everything, but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She said she didnt think Haven acted unfairly by agreeing to split liability 50/50 
between Mr C and the third party driver. She said the policy entitled Haven to make this 
decision provided it could show it had done so fairly and reasonably. And in this case, she 
thought it had. 
Our investigator noted that Mr C also raised a complaint about receiving redacted 
documents from Haven, but she didnt consider this part of Mr Cs complaint and said that it 
would need to be raised separately. Mr C confirmed he had raised this issue with Haven 
already. 
As Mr C remained unhappy with our investigators findings, he asked for an ombudsman to 
consider the case and make a final decision. And so, the case has now been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note theres no dispute that the third party vehicle collided with Mr Cs car while he was 
slowly moving forward. What is in dispute here, is whether Haven applied the policy terms 
reasonably, and carried out a fair investigation to determine who was most likely at fault for 
the collision, and to what extent. And in this case, whilst I appreciate this will disappoint Mr C 
as Ive seen how passionately hes argued his point of view, I dont think Haven has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here. Ill now explain why. 
Its important to refer to the terms and conditions of the policy under section L which say that 
we are entitled to take over any third party claim against You (or any other person claiming 
under this policy) and to conduct the defence or settlement of any such third party claim in 
Your name or the name of any person claiming under this policy. 
This means that Haven is entitled to defend or settle a claim as it sees fit. Haven doesnt 
need a policyholders prior approval of any decision to admit liability, settle a claim or make a 
payment to a third party. Furthermore, Haven isnt obliged to take a case to court even if the 
policyholder would like it to do so. Haven, under the policy, is entitled to consider the 
evidence presented to it and also the economics of proceeding to defend a case and the 
potential costs and risks involved. 
Im satisfied that this is a common term across most motor insurance policies Ive seen. And 
whilst this service agrees that this term in principle is fair and reasonable, Haven needs to 
demonstrate that its applied the term in a fair and reasonable way. 
I must also explain that my role here isnt to decide who I think is most likely at fault for the 
accident. My role is to determine whether I think Haven has carried out a fair investigation, 
and applied the policy terms reasonably. And, as Ive said above, I think it has. To keep 
things simple, Ive used sub-headings below to set out what I think is most compelling here. 
The CCTV footage
Where liability has been disputed, a useful way to determine what happened is to review 
available CCTV footage showing the collision. This service would expect an insurer to act 
promptly once its notified that CCTV footage may be available from the scene. This is 
because more often than not, CCTV footage is only held for a certain period of time. 
Ive carefully looked at whether I think Haven made reasonable attempts to retrieve CCTV 
footage. I can see it made contact with the local council in December 2019 when Mr C first 
notified it of the collision. Haven made contact attempts with the local council on several 
occasions, but didnt receive any responses to its requests. Therefore, no CCTV footage 
was available for it to consider and pass to the third party insurer in attempt to defend the claim. 
Im satisfied based on what Ive seen that Haven made reasonable attempts to retrieve 
CCTV footage. 
The witness statement
Haven made contact with a witness that claimed they had seen the collision take place. The 
witness provided a statement that said the third party driver was, in their opinion, to blame 
for the accident. However, when this was put to the third party insurer, it pointed out that the 
witness was also asked could either party have avoided the accident?. The witness 
responded to say that both parties couldve avoided the accident, which in my view means 
that the witness considered both Mr C and the third party driver should share some 
responsibility for the collision. 
Haven considered this and contacted the witness to obtain further clarity about their 
statement. Haven took the decision to agree to split liability between Mr C and the third party 
driver based on this. Ive looked at this, and Im satisfied Haven took reasonable steps by 
providing the third party insurer with the witness statement, and seeking further clarity from 
the witness once the information was disputed. 
Dispute about whether the third party vehicle had its siren and emergency lights on 
From the information available to me, I understand theres a dispute as to whether the third 
party vehicle had its emergency siren and lights on at the time of the accident. Mr C disputes 
this was the case, whereas the third party insurer said it did. 
The witness that provided the statement said the third party vehicle had its siren on during 
the time the collision took place. As there are conflicting versions of event, Im satisfied it 
was reasonable for Haven to query this further with the third party insurer. The third party 
insurer provided Haven with data from the third party vehicle which shows whether the siren 
and emergency lights were active  and at which time. The data Ive seen shows that the 
siren wasnt active around the time of the collision, but the emergency lights were. This 
conflicted with what Mr C, the witness and the third party insurer said.
Given there are conflicting versions of events here, and vehicle data that doesnt match up 
with what either party involved has said  including the witness  Haven decided that a 
50/50 liability split was the most appropriate way to attempt to settle the claim. I dont think 
thats unreasonable here given the conflicting information from Mr C, the witness and the 
third party insurer. 
Incorrect information provided by the third party driver
Mr C also said that he thought the third party driver had provided the incorrect registration 
plate in order to impact the fairness of the claim. I appreciate Mr Cs concerns here, but on 
balance, I havent seen that this had any bearing on the outcome of the claim. Mr C provided 
clear photos showing the correct registration plate of the third party vehicle, which Haven 
used to start the claims process with the third party insurer. 
Overall, and to summarise, Im not in agreement with Mr C that Haven has treated him 
unfairly here, or failed to carried out a fair investigation based on all the information 
presented to it by both him and the third party insurer. Haven is entitled under the policy to 
investigate the claim and decide whether to defend or settle it. Therefore, on balance, Im 
satisfied it took reasonable steps to investigate Mr Cs arguments. I note Mr C did raise a complaint about the information he received from Haven. Mr C said 
most of the information he received was redacted. Mr C did raise this complaint with Haven 
and it said it sent him a final response letter. Mr C would need to bring a new complaint to 
this service, as this isnt something Ive considered as part of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman