DRN-3303610
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with how long it took Nationwide Building Society to consider 
their mortgage application.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr and Mrs W applied for a mortgage with Nationwide, via a broker. They 
were re-mortgaging from another lender and looking to take some additional borrowing. In 
total they were looking to borrow £179,000. Nationwide gave them a decision in principle 
indicating it was willing to lend and a formal application was submitted.
Additional information was required as part of the application process. In mid-December 
2020, the relevant information had been received and Nationwide was happy to lend from an 
affordability point of view. The next stage of the application was for a valuation to be 
instructed. This was scheduled for mid-January 2021. There were no issues with the 
valuation.
The application was reviewed again before being approved. When this took place, based on 
Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances and Nationwides lending criteria, it said it was only willing to 
lend £172,300. A new mortgage illustration was produced and provided on 25 January 2021. 
Mr and Mrs W went ahead with the application for the mortgage at this lower amount. The 
funds were released at the beginning of February 2021. Their mortgage was taken over a 
term of 29 years with a 5-year fixed interest rate deal.
Mr and Mrs W complained to Nationwide about how long their application had taken. They 
said they felt theyd received really poor customer service and that Nationwide had delayed 
the application unnecessarily. They said these delays had resulted in them not being able to 
borrow the amount that they wanted. 
Nationwide said it didnt think it had made an error. It explained it had to make sure it lent 
responsibly and that had meant it needed to request additional information as part of the 
application. But it didnt think it had caused unreasonable delays. And it said it had applied 
its lending criteria correctly. It did however acknowledge that the application had taken a 
long time, so offered Mr and Mrs W £50 for the upset caused.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with this response and asked our service to consider the 
complaint. They still believed that Nationwide had taken an unreasonable amount of time. 
And in addition, they felt other aspects of the service it provided, particularly its 
communication, had been poor. They said, as an example, after the valuation had been 
completed and they called for an update, Nationwide had said the application had been 
declined. But this wasnt correct  it had just reduced the amount it was willing to lend. So 
they remained unhappy with the service provided and to put things right they said theyd like 
Nationwide to refund the product fee theyd paid when taking the mortgage and allow them 
to exit the mortgage without incurring an early repayment charge.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. He thought it was reasonable that 
Nationwide had asked for more information as part of the application process. And he didnt 
feel the time taken for a valuation to be completed was excessive. He acknowledged Mr and 
Mrs W hadnt been able to borrow the amount theyd wanted to, but he thought Nationwide 
hadnt acted unfairly by assessing the application again and applying its standard lending 
criteria. So, he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs W did not agree. They said theyd been approved the amount they wanted to 
borrow in October 2020 and it was only due to Nationwides delays that they hadnt been 
able to borrow this amount. And they didnt agree that it hadnt caused delays. So, they still 
felt they should be allowed to exit the mortgage without penalty.
As Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W have said that they were approved for the amount they wanted to borrow in 
October 2020. But I dont think that is correct. It appears they received a decision in principle 
at that time. But a decision in principle is not an agreement to lend a set amount. It is an 
indication, based on limited information, of what a lender might be willing to lend, subject to a 
formal application being assessed.
Mr and Mrs W submitted a full mortgage application after this decision in principle was 
provided. And they think Nationwide took too long to review their application. 
Before agreeing to lend, Nationwide needed to be satisfied that this application met its 
lending criteria. This involved asking for additional information. Which I dont think is 
unreasonable. I can see that Nationwide asked the broker for payslips and account 
statements to assess income and expenditure  which is fairly standard practice. The notes 
Ive been provided indicate that there was an item missing from the first set of information 
that was received and this needed to be requested again. And then when this was received, 
the application needed to be reviewed. 
After this information was looked at, Nationwide had further questions about some of the 
items of expenditure on Mr and Mrs Ws account statements. So, it asked the broker for 
clarification. Again, I dont think this is unreasonable. Nationwide is entitled to decide 
whether it is willing to lend and to satisfy itself that it would be acting responsibly when doing 
so. If information provided to it means it needs to ask additional, follow up questions I think 
its reasonable that it do so. And from the information Ive seen, the questions were put to 
the broker promptly, when they came to light.
I can see that the application wasnt re-reviewed immediately after each piece of information 
was received. But I think this is reasonable. Nationwide is a large organisation dealing with a 
significant amount of applications at any one time.
Based on what Ive seen I dont think Nationwide has caused any unreasonable delays to 
the application between it being submitted and mid-December 2020, when it was approved 
from affordability point of view. I think it is important to say though that this didnt mean that 
Nationwide had agreed to lend at that point. The application was still subject to further 
checks, including a valuation.
I can see that a valuation was arranged promptly, after the application reached that stage. But the first available date was not for approximately one month. But I dont think this was an 
unreasonable delay on Nationwides part. It was entitled to require a valuation. And the 
availability of a valuer was outside of its control.
Once the valuation was completed Nationwide carried out a final review. But based on 
changes to its lending criteria around self-employed income in October 2020  after it had 
given its decision in principle - Nationwide reduced the amount it was willing to lend. And it 
issued a revised offer promptly. 
Nationwide has accepted that this was a lengthy process and offered Mr and Mrs W £50 for 
the inconvenience caused. But based on the information Ive seen; I dont think Nationwide 
has caused any unreasonable delays to the application. 
Mr and Mrs W have said they were unhappy with the communication from Nationwide and 
the lack of updates. But as the application was made via a broker, I wouldnt necessarily 
have expected Nationwide to update Mr and Mrs W directly. Theyve said that the 
communication with the broker was poor as well. But from what Ive seen Nationwide asked 
for information promptly when it was needed. It then instructed a valuation and was awaiting 
the outcome of that for several weeks. And then it provided an updated mortgage offer once 
this was received and the application reviewed. Beyond doing those things, Im not sure Id 
have expected it to do much more.
Mr and Mrs W have said that when they called for an update after the valuation, they were 
incorrectly told that the application had been declined. But this wasnt the case  Nationwide 
was just reviewing how much it would offer. The notes Ive seen from Nationwide support 
that they were given this incorrect information. This is unfortunate and it does look like, at 
that point, a more comprehensive explanation couldve been provided. But the correct 
information seems to have then been provided to the broker, shortly after this call. So, while I 
think this call couldve been handled better, I dont think this impacted on the time the 
application took. 
Mr and Mrs W have said that the delays to the application have resulted in them not being 
able to borrow the amount they wanted. But as Ive already explained, I dont think 
Nationwide has caused any unreasonable delays.
And in any event, even if the review of the application and valuation had taken place within a 
few weeks of it being submitted, rather than several months, Nationwide would still have 
carried out final checks before lending. And given it has explained that its lending criteria 
was amended in October 2020, the application would still likely have been affected by these 
new criteria  which Nationwide applies to all applications. 
I think Nationwide could potentially have made Mr and Mrs W aware in December 2020 that 
their application would be affected by these updated criteria  when it had completed its 
review of income and expenditure and moved on to instructing a valuation. But again, at that 
stage, the application was still not approved  as the valuation was required. So, there was 
still the chance that the application would be declined anyway. And so, I can understand why 
it didnt think it needed to discuss this further at that stage.
Nationwide is entitled to set its own lending criteria and update this as it deems appropriate. 
This is a matter of its commercial judgement and not something I can interfere with. And 
based on what Ive seen, these criteria have been fairly applied to Mr and Mrs Ws 
application. So, I cant say it acted unfairly by reducing the amount it was willing to lend.
Mr and Mrs W proceeded with the application, in the knowledge that the amount Nationwide 
would lend had been reduced. Although I can understand why, having expended time in getting to that stage, Mr and Mrs W chose to proceed, they were under no obligation to do 
so. The mortgage illustration explained that a product fee was payable. And that an early 
repayment charge would apply if the mortgage was repaid early. And given that I dont think 
Nationwide has done anything wrong in terms of how it handled the mortgage application, I 
cant fairly say it must waive any of the terms Mr and Mrs W agreed to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
If it hasnt done so already, I think Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs W the 
£50 it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman