DRN-2587540
The complaint
 Miss B and Mr R complain about the level of service received from Lifesearch Partners 
Limited in relation to life insurance policies. 
As Miss B has been most involved in raising this complaint, for ease of reference, my 
decision will mainly refer to her.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.  
Miss B spoke with a Lifesearch adviser on 11 June 2020 about setting up a life insurance 
policy for her and Mr R. And, in a follow up call that took place on 15 June 2020, the adviser 
recommended a policy providing £100,000 of cover with a start date of 2 July 2020. Miss B 
agreed with the recommendation and she provided bank and GP details to the adviser so 
they could be forwarded to the policy provider (provider A). The adviser told Miss B that a 
confirmation email would be sent to her in the next couple of days.
On 18 June 2020 Miss B called Lifesearch and told them she hadnt received the 
confirmation email. Lifesearch apologised for this and an email was sent later that day by the 
adviser confirming the policy details. Miss B then emailed the adviser on 20 June 2020 
saying she no longer wanted to proceed with the policy and to cancel it immediately. The 
adviser confirmed the policy had been cancelled on 23 June 2020.
Miss B and Mr R then applied for life cover through a comparison website on 1 July 2020. 
This policy(s) was provided by a different provider (provider B) and had a start date of 2 
August 2020. Lifesearch were notified of this application as theyre a partner of the 
comparison website - and they administer the policies submitted via that website. Lifesearch 
then emailed Miss B on 10 July 2020, this said:
Im emailing regarding the [provider B] application you have submitted on 
16/06/2020.
[Provider B] wrote out to your surgery on 16/06/2020 and received the completed 
doctors report on 08/07/2020.
We are currently waiting on the medical underwriting. This stage shouldnt take long 
and we will update you as soon as its completed.
At this stage you are not covered by the insurance policy but you do have accidental 
death cover due to the ongoing assessment of your application with [provider B] (this 
runs for 90 days from the date you submitted the application).
Miss B complained about the email. She was unhappy at being contacted by Lifesearch 
about the application for cover with provider B and that the dates referred to in the email 
were incorrect. She also said that she hadnt given Lifesearch permission to obtain her 
medical records and that theyd likewise set up a direct debit on her bank account without 
her authority, which she had to cancel. 
Lifesearch explained the incorrect information in their email was likely down to human error. 
And they confirmed that the application Miss B made via the comparison website to provider 
B was indeed submitted on 1 July 2020 with cover commencing on 2 August 2020. They 
acknowledged the concern and confusion that this caused and apologised for what 
happened. 
Lifesearch also confirmed that they hadnt requested medical records (as stated in their 
email), nor had they contacted Miss Bs bank provider to set up the direct debit as payments 
are collected by the insurers. And so, the direct debit Miss B cancelled wouldve been set up 
by one of the insurance providers. But they confirmed they instructed provider A to cancel 
the policy as per Miss Bs request in June 2020  and provider A confirmed they actioned 
the request. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said, while the email sent to Miss B containing 
incorrect information was most likely as a result of a mistake, it wouldve caused her some 
distress. But he considered the direct debit set up in error was most likely caused by 
provider A  as they received Miss Bs bank details at the time of application. To put things 
right, our investigator recommended Lifesearch pay Miss B £50 in compensation. 
Lifesearch agreed to pay the £50 compensation. 
Miss B however disagreed with our investigators and so the matter has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss Bs frustration with whats happened as I consider she didnt receive the 
level of service she should reasonably expect. Lifesearch dont seem to dispute this either 
and, in particular, they have apologised for their email of 10 July 2020. What Ive considered 
here though is whether they need to do anything more. And, having done so, I think £50 
compensation is reasonable in the circumstances. Let me explain why. 
Lifesearch didnt send the confirmation email within the couple daystimeframe that they said 
they would. Because of this, Miss B called Lifesearch to enquire about this. This clearly 
inconvenienced Miss B. But I think Lifesearch took appropriate steps to resolve the situation 
by sending an emailing confirming the policy details the same day. I think this, along with the 
apology they provided at the time, is sufficient here. 
After Miss B cancelled the policy with provider A, a direct debit was subsequently set up. 
Although I appreciate Miss Bs dissatisfaction at having to cancel the direct debit as shed 
already told Lifesearch she no longer wanted to go ahead with the policy, I dont think theyre 
at fault here. This is because Lifesearch dont set up the direct debits, this is done by the 
insurers as they collect the premiums. And, as part of the application process, Miss B 
provided her bank details to Lifesearch for the policy to be set up. Naturally, these were sent 
to provider A. Lifesearch duly informed provider A to cancel the policy, as per Miss Bs 
request, but it seems that a direct debit was set up anyway. I dont think this was within Lifesearchs control and by informing provider A to cancel the policy they took appropriate 
steps to carry out Miss Bs instruction. 
Lifesearch did however send Miss B an email containing incorrect information on 10 July 
2020 which, as Ive said, they dont dispute. Ive noted Miss Bs views that this email 
contained lies and that she also suggested, when she initially referred the complaint to our 
service, that shed potentially been part of a scam. But Im not persuaded thats the case or 
that Lifesearch deliberately lied in this email. I see no reason or benefit for Lifesearch in 
doing so. Instead, I consider it more likely that it was a genuine mistake made by the 
Lifesearch employee  possibly getting confused between the policy applications of provider 
A and provider B. 
Irrespective of how the error came about though, it seems that Miss B and Mr R havent 
suffered financially as a result. This is because, as I understand, no payments were made to 
provider A for the cancelled policy and that the policy(s) with provider B has been set up 
correctly. So, theyve got the cover they wanted in place. 
Lifesearch has also since confirmed that they didnt request any medical records for Miss B 
and Mr R. So, while I appreciate the concerns Miss B has made about not giving them 
permission to obtain this information, there doesnt appear to have been a data protection 
breach in this instance. Miss B and Mr R can however contact the information 
commissioners office if they have any further concerns about how Lifesearch has handled 
their personal data. 
I have however considered the impact this had on Miss B and Mr R. And I agree with our 
investigator that it wouldve caused them some distress. I say this as I think receiving an 
email telling them theyre not covered and that the insurer is awaiting medical underwriting 
wouldve been concerning to them. That said, Im aware that following receipt of the email 
Miss B contacted provider B who confirmed there wasnt anything outstanding and the cover 
was set up as it should be. So, I think Miss Bs concerns wouldve been allayed because of 
this. 
Ive thought carefully about what compensation would be fair in the circumstances. I realise 
Miss B feels £50 is a derisory amount for what happened. But I think it would be helpful to 
explain that the role of our service isnt to punish businesses when they make a mistake. 
Instead, we try to put consumers back in the situation they wouldve been in had the mistake 
not occurred. In this instance, there doesnt appear to be a financial loss suffered or anything 
that needs to be rectified. We can however award compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by what happened. And, taking everything in to consideration, I think £50 is a 
reasonable amount to recognise this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Lifesearch Partners Limited to pay 
Miss B and Mr R £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman