DRN-3159374
The complaint
Mr H complains Barclays Bank (UK) Plc mis-sold him a loan.
What happened
In August 2015, Mr H spoke to a member of staff in branch about topping up his existing 
loan with Barclays. He says he was told at this time that he was pre-approved for additional 
lending and, as a loyal customer, hed receive a preferential interest rate.
 
On 25 August 2015, Mr H applied online to top up his existing loan by borrowing an 
additional £13,000  bringing the total to £35,000. His existing loan with Barclays was repaid 
and the remainder paid into his bank account. 
In June 2019, Mr H complained to Barclays. Initially he said he was unhappy that hed been 
told the rate would be preferential but has since discovered he couldve got a lower interest 
rate elsewhere. Mr H later added to his complaint that he felt the loan was mis-sold to him 
because it wasnt affordable.
 
Barclays responded to Mr Hs complaint to say it no longer had a record of who he spoke to 
in 2015 before taking out the loan but that if Mr H had contacted it with the lower interest 
rate, it couldve potentially matched rates hed seen elsewhere but this wouldve needed to 
happen shortly after the application. It also said that Mr Hs top up was pre-approved which 
meant its systems had already considered Mr Hs financial information and was prepared to 
lend the additional amount. 
Our Investigator considered Mr Hs concerns. She said, in summary, she didnt think 
Barclays had made a mistake either in the rate it had offered Mr H for his loan, or by 
agreeing to the loan in the first place.
Mr H didnt agree. He said hed provided a summary of his income and expenditure in the 
three months leading up to him taking the new loan, and this showed there was insufficient 
surplus for him to be able to afford the new loan. 
As Mr H didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision setting out what had happened and what I thought about that. 
Ive set out my findings again below and they form part of my final decision.
 
My provisional findings
Its for financial businesses to decide who theyre prepared to lend money to and on what 
terms. Barclays hasnt been able to locate the person Mr H says he spoke to in 2015 about 
preferential rates. But I dont think this matters. Ill explain why. 
Mr H says himself he didnt look elsewhere for a loan, he approached Barclays because he 
already banked with them and because he needed to buy a new car  and needed to do so 
fairly urgently. So he was free to look elsewhere for a loan but chose not to do so, 
presumably because he needed the money urgently and felt it made sense to approach his 
existing bank.
 
Barclays had an obligation when considering Mr Hs request for additional borrowing to 
conduct reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure he could afford to repay the 
borrowing sustainably. Mr H says based on Barclays own calculations he couldnt do so.
 
Proportionate checks can vary  but generally wed expect a business to satisfy themselves 
that the customer can afford to repay the loan in a sustainable way.  So first I need to 
consider if Barclays completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr H would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way. 
Barclays has told us that the affordability for this loan was assessed using transactional data 
from Mr Hs current account. By its calculations, in the three months preceding the loan, 
Mr Hs income into his account was  on average - £4,200. It worked out Mr Hs expenses to 
be about £2,500  leaving a disposable amount of around £1,600. Based on these figures, 
Barclays decided the monthly repayment of about £798 was affordable. But, I dont think 
transactional data alone was sufficient for a loan of this size.
Mr H says this calculation of his income is wrong because it includes funds transferred in 
from his savings accounts. Ive seen statements for Mr Hs savings account with Barclays. I 
can see he transferred money in from this account in the three months preceding the 
application. I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to take this money into account as 
it was money Mr H had in the run up to his application for the loan. 
Based on what Barclays have told us that Ive found that it didnt conduct proportionate 
checks. So now I must consider, if Barclays had done proportionate checks, would that have 
shown Mr H couldnt afford the loan. 
 
Mr H has provided a breakdown of his expenditure as he says it was in August 2015 when 
the top-up was agreed. Mr H has calculated his total monthly expenditure to be around 
£3,355 and I can see from his statements his salary crediting the account each month was 
about £3,325. So by Mr Hs own calculations, he was already spending more than he was 
earning each month  before hed applied for the top up to his loan.
 
Mr H says the expenditure he prepared for his complaint was limited to basic living 
expenses, running a home and car. Having reviewed statements for Mr Hs current account, 
I can see some of the items Mr H has listed in his own income and expenditure but not all of 
them. And although I dont think Barclays did enough checks, I dont think reasonable and 
proportionate checks wouldve required it to consider everything Mr H has listed here.
So although, by his own calculations, Mr H couldnt afford the loan repayments, not 
everything hes listed here is something that seems to be paid for from his Barclays current 
account. Mr H has said he had been using his savings in the months preceding the top-up 
loan to help cover day to day expenses but I can see a number of other transactions each 
month that appear to be beyond basic household expenses.
Ive got a copy of Mr Hs credit file. This shows at the time of the application, August 2015, 
Mr H had unsecured credit with a total available limit of almost £40,000  of which he was 
using about £17,000. All the accounts were maintained well. There were no late or missed 
payments or other negative information on Mr Hs credit file. Again Mr H says his use of his 
other credit facilities had increased  it may have done  but I dont think this on its own 
demonstrates the loan was unaffordable. Mr H also had a mortgage  also with Barclays  this was also up to date with no repayment 
issues. 
So taking everything into account, if Barclays had done proportionate checks I think its more 
likely than not it wouldve found that Mr H could afford the repayments based on everything 
Ive seen about his circumstances at the time. 
When Mr H applied for this loan, he already had a loan with Barclays. At the time of the 
application, the outstanding balance on the existing loan was just under £22,000. That loan 
had been taken out earlier and had an interest rate of about 10.5%.
Having looked at the evidence, I dont think Barclays made it clear enough that Mr H was 
agreeing to take an entirely new loan of £35,000  replacing the loan he already had  at a 
new interest rate of 13.9% APR. But I dont think this makes a difference to the outcome of 
the complaint because Mr H has told us, as Ive already mentioned, that he was borrowing 
this money to buy a car and needed to do so fairly urgently. So it seems unlikely that if 
Barclays had explained this to Mr H he wouldve decided not to take the loan. 
Overall, although I dont think Barclays did sufficient checks to ensure Mr H could afford this 
loan - Im satisfied having considered the information Ive got of his financial circumstances 
at the time it wasnt unaffordable or irresponsible for Barclays to have agreed this loan. 
Response to my provisional decision
Mr H responded to the provisional decision. He said I had made a number of assumptions  
in particular in relation to what I said about the expenditure coming out of his Barclays 
account. 
In his response Mr H also asked our service to provide some information. We asked to him 
to clarify what it was he wanted us to provide but we didnt receive a response from him. We 
chased this up twice, but still received no response from Mr H. 
So we sent Mr H the information we had on our file that he wouldnt have already seen and 
explained that if we didnt hear from Mr H by the deadline wed given, I would likely continue 
with my consideration of his complaint and issue the final decision. We havent received a 
response from Mr H. 
Barclays did not respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H said Id made a number of assumptions about the fact that not all of his listed 
expenditure seemed to be paid from his Barclays account. He made the point that some 
bills are paid in cash. But I didnt make any findings about whether Mr H did or didnt have 
these other expenses. Just that based on what Id seen they didnt appear to have been paid 
from his current account with Barclays. And I said that I didnt think reasonable and 
proportionate checks wouldve required Barclays to have considered everything Mr H had 
listed as his expenses. So I dont think this makes a difference to the overall outcome of 
Mr Hs complaint.
 
As Barclays didnt respond and I dont think Mr Hs comments make a difference to the 
outcome of his complaint, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman