DRN-4138571
The complaint
Ms L has a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with James Hay Administration Company 
Ltd trading as James Hay Partnership.  Ms L invested in an arrangement HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC) has since challenged. Ms Ls complaint is that James Hay should not 
have allowed that investment in its SIPPs.
What happened
In 2013 Ms L applied for a SIPP with James Hay.  She applied to transfer an existing 
pension to James Hay with a value of around £40,000 and she arranged for a further lump 
sum payment to be made to her new SIPP when she applied for it.  
Ms Ls partner also applied to open a SIPP, transfer his pension to it and make a top up 
payment on the same day as Ms L.
Ms Ls occupation was recorded as Company Director on the SIPP application form. Ms Ls 
partner is an independent financial adviser (IFA).  Ms L is not herself an adviser, but she was 
a Director of their IFA business. Ms L named her own firm as her financial adviser on the 
SIPP application form.
Shortly before this Ms L bought shares in a company which was part of an investment 
arrangement I will refer to as the Scheme.  She bought shares at £1 each.  This was funded 
largely by a limited recourse loan which was part of the Scheme.    
Shortly after the SIPP was opened Ms L arranged for James Hay to buy the shares from her 
using the funds in her SIPP.  James Hay paid £1 per share meaning £50,000 was paid out of 
the SIPP to Ms L.
Ms Ls partner also carried out the same transactions.
Soon after this Ms Ls firm became an appointed representative of a firm I will refer to as Ms 
Ls new principal firm.  Before this Ms Ls firm had been an appointed representative of a 
different principal.
Soon after Ms Ls SIPP was set up and the transfer value received from her old pension an 
IFA at the firm that was about to become Ms Ls new principal firm applied to James Hay, on 
behalf of Ms L, to buy her shares in the Scheme.
Before agreeing to buy the shares James Hay required a Unquoted Shares Questionnaire 
and a Statement of Self-Certified Sophisticated Investors to be completed and signed by 
Ms L.
On the Questionnaire Ms L was, amongst other things, asked how she had found out about 
the opportunity to buy the shares.  Ms L answered, My IFA.
On the Sophisticated Investor Self-Certification document Ms L added the following:
I have been a Director of my IFA practice for [number of years given] and fully 
understand the risk of unquoted shares.
And this represents less than 8% of my overall wealth. 
James Hay bought the shares on behalf of the SIPP at £1 per share meaning £50,000 was 
paid out of the pension to Ms L.  At the time Ms L was less than 55 years old.
This arrangement was later challenged by HMRC as an unauthorised payment out of the 
SIPP and, as I understand it, Ms L has been in negotiation with HMRC about the amount 
due and arrangements for payment.
Ms L, and her partner, both complained to James Hay that it had bought the shares without 
first carrying out adequate due diligence checks.  It did not uphold their complaints.  Ms Ls 
partner then referred their complaints to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our investigators considered Ms Ls complaint.  She thought the complaint should not 
be upheld.  She made several points including:
Ms Ls firm was listed as the adviser on the SIPP application.  Ms Ls partner is an 
IFA.  It is more likely than not that Ms L would have fully discussed her application 
with her partner and would have had a good understanding of the risks involved 
despite not being an IFA herself.  For example, Ms L wrote on the sophisticated 
investor declaration that she fully understood the risks of the unlisted shares.
Ms Ls partners professional qualifications meant he would have had a good 
understanding of pension legislation and the circumstances that would make a 
payment unauthorised and the tax implications of such payments.  
Ms L and her partner sold the shares to their SIPPs for £1 each releasing pension 
funds to each of them, therefore withdrawing more than 25% of their funds without 
incurring an immediate tax liability.  Ms Ls partner, and therefore in the 
circumstances Ms L, should have been aware that such a transaction might be 
challenged by HMRC.
In all the circumstances it would not be fair to ask James Hay to pay compensation to 
Ms L.
Ms L does not agree with the investigator.  Ms L made several points including:
Although she is a Director of their business her role is secretarial and administrative.  
She has never been authorised to act as an adviser.  She only supported her partner, 
and he only gave advice on the areas he specialises in which does not include 
unlisted shares.
The investigator has assumed that she (Ms L) would have gone along with whatever 
her partner said but she was following the advice of their IFA and on the basis that 
James Hay is a reputable business that would not have allowed the transaction 
unless it was satisfied all was in order.  
While she did discuss matters with her partner it was within the context of the advice 
provided to them by their adviser as they did not have sufficient knowledge about this 
type of investment without his advice.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions and I have considered all 
that has been said and provided. I will not however respond to all the points that have been 
made, rather I will concentrate on what I consider to be the central issue in this case.
The Scheme in this case was an unusual arrangement.  It involved buying shares largely 
with a limited recourse loan and then selling those shares to the SIPP so that funds were 
paid out of the pension scheme to the investor.  This is, as I have said, an unusual 
arrangement and on closer inspection HMRC was not happy with it.  It said the payment was 
an unauthorised payment and imposed a surcharge and interest.
There are numerous examples of investment schemes that are set up to make use of tax 
concessions which push, with varying amounts of aggression, at the boundaries of the 
purpose of the concession. Sometimes people invest in those schemes without 
understanding there is a risk that HMRC might challenge the scheme.  Sometimes people 
invest in those schemes understanding and accepting the risk HMRC might challenge the 
scheme.  And over recent years, as seen for example with film partnerships, HMRC has 
been more and more active in challenging the schemes it thinks are tax avoidance schemes.
If an investor chooses to invest in a scheme understanding and accepting the risk HMRC 
might challenge their scheme and might impose tax consequences upon them, is it fair and 
reasonable for such an investor to complain later if HMRC does challenge and does impose 
those consequences?  That is, in effect, the issue here because, like the investigator, I 
consider that Ms L, in the unusual circumstances of this case, will have realised the Scheme 
was unusual and was at risk of challenge from HMRC.  Ms L may not be an IFA herself, but 
she was in effect acting jointly with her partner who is.  And while they may not have 
previously invested in unlisted shares before, or advised others to do so, he was an IFA able 
to advise on pensions and so will have had a good understanding of relevant taxation 
issues, and of the possibility of HMRC questioning a scheme involving unusual features 
such as the Scheme in this case. As Ms L says they discussed the advice they received and 
so they both will have been aware of the potential risks involved.
Ms L and her partner will have done a number of things when they were weighing up the 
risks involved.  And that will have, or should have, included Mr Ls partners assessment 
(made in conjunction with their IFA) of the Scheme as a whole  not just the share price  
set against his professional understanding of pension, investment, and taxation matters.  I 
accept that Ms L and her partner may also have taken into account the fact that James Hay 
was prepared to allow members of its SIPPs to invest in the Scheme (and previous versions 
of it).  But does that mean that the risk Ms L and her partner knew, or should have known, 
they were taking should fairly and reasonably transfer to James Hay?  In my view it does 
not. 
James Hay was not Ms Ls and her partners adviser.  It did not advise them that taking 
those risks was suitable for them. They made that decision for themselves, in conjunction 
with their IFA.  But in my view, in determining this complaint against James Hay only, that 
was a decision Ms L could reasonably make given that she was in effect making a joint 
application with her IFA partner in a process in which she was an active participant and 
during which she was prepared to certify that she was a Director of an IFA practice and understood the risks of unlisted shares.  Accordingly in my view it is fair and reasonable that 
Ms L bears the consequences of that decision. 
 
In my view, in the unusual circumstances of Ms Ls case, even if James Hay did not carry 
out adequate due diligence on the Scheme (and I make no finding on that point), it is not fair 
and reasonable to require it to pay compensation to Ms L.  And so, in the particular 
circumstances of her case, I do not uphold Ms Ls complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Ms Ls complaint against James Hay Administration Company Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman