DRN-1627758
The complaint
Mrs R complains that We Fight Any Claim Limited (WFAC) are chasing her for a fee years 
after she had made payment.
What happened
Mrs R instructed WFAC to make PPI claims on her behalf. It was successful and Mrs R 
received four sets of redress (in two offer letters) from her lender in 2014. WFAC sent out 
the offers and Mrs R accepted them. Mrs R says she then calculated how much her fee 
would be for all four successful claims and sent this over as one cheque payment. WFACs 
success fee was 35% plus VAT of any compensation  which is defined as any financial 
benefit that is awarded to you from a PPIclaim.
When WFAC received Mrs Rs payment it determined that she still owed £248.92. Mrs R 
discussed this with WFAC, and it explained that this was because it charged a fee on all the 
money the lender awarded  including the tax that was deducted. Mrs R disagreed and felt 
she had paid the right amount. No further contact was made until 2018, when WFAC chased 
Mrs R again for this payment. It passed the collection activity to debt collectors in 2019 and 
Mrs R then complained.
I sent out my provisional decision on 7 February 2020 which said the following:
Outstanding fee
WFAC has continued to say the fee payable relates to invoice ending *562. But I dont think 
this is the case. I think that it received Mrs Rs cheque and applied it to the invoices in order 
and so the last invoice was left with an amount outstanding. Mrs R has explained she 
received two offer letters and calculated the redress based on the amount being awarded  
this was in 2014. I understand that at the time WFAC contacted Mrs R and explained there 
was a shortfall of £248.92 and Mrs R felt this was incorrect. There was a discussion based 
around whether it was right to pay a fee on the tax that was deducted, and it was left that 
Mrs R was going to do further research to find out. When WFAC didnt then contact Mrs R 
for four years, I think its reasonable for Mrs R to have thought it had accepted her payment 
as full settlement. Or, at least, would not be pursuing her for what it considered to be the 
outstanding balance.
WFAC hasnt explained why it didnt contact Mrs R for four years, although it acknowledged 
this wasnt ideal. It said it was 2018 when it updated its systems and found there was an 
amount outstanding. But I dont think leaving it this long is fair or reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
WFAC has said it feels that Mrs R hasnt suffered any detriment as a result of the delay in 
chasing the shortfall. It said it hasnt added any interest to the amount outstanding, and it 
hadnt pestered her for payment. WFAC also explained that Mrs R informed it in 2014 that 
she intended to confirm with both HMRC and the Financial Ombudsman Service about 
whether she needed to pay a fee on the deducted tax. So, it felt it was acting reasonably by 
giving her time to do this without chasing her for the debt and causing unnecessary stress. But I disagree. I think its likely WFAC only noticed the outstanding debt when it updated its 
systems in 2018, and this is the reason there has been such a large space of time. And I 
think this large gap in communication has caused Mrs R some stress.
The conversation in 2014 was based around Mrs R believing she didnt owe any further 
money, and she felt that HMRC and the Financial Ombudsman Service would support this. 
So, whilst I dont dispute that the terms allow for WFAC to charge the full amount on the 
invoice, and that nothing in law prevents it from doing so, I think that leaving it four years to 
chase the payment wouldve given Mrs R the impression that she didnt owe this. 
I cant see that there was any attempt to pursue Mrs R for the outstanding debt, nor was 
there any communication after the disagreement in 2014 about the claims. Mrs R had 
cancelled any other potential claims handled by WFAC in 2014 and was reasonable in 
thinking that the relationship was over. I think that asking Mrs R for payment after four years 
of no communication caused stress and anxiety. In any event, as no contact had been 
made, Mrs R had moved address by the time WFAC contacted her  and as shed received 
no contact, she hadnt updated her address with them. I think this is reasonable given she 
felt the relationship had ended in 2014. So, Mrs R had heard nothing until she received a 
letter from a debt collector in 2019  five years later. And I think this must have been 
extremely upsetting for her given shed thought the relationship with WFAC had ended. So, I 
dont think WFAC should be pursuing her for this fee and should now waive it, as it had 
given Mrs R the impression that the fee she paid in 2014 was accepted.
Mrs R has said her circumstances have changed since she was last in touch with WFAC and 
she didnt realise she owed money and couldnt pay it. And I think that the delay WFAC left 
to chase Mrs R for money she owed was unreasonable and caused serious trouble and 
upset, especially as she was chased by a debt collection agency  as the correspondence 
from WFAC in 2018 had been sent to a previous address. Looking at all the consequences 
of leaving it so long to chase Mrs R, I think she has experienced significant trouble and 
upset. By the absence of any communication after she had said she felt she didnt owe this 
shortfall she believed the relationship was over. So not only did the contact cause surprise, 
but to be contacted by a debt collector (as she had moved address) wouldve caused upset 
and shock. So, I think it needs to compensate Mrs R for this. In deciding how much to award 
Ive considered the effect of the waiver of the amount WFAC is chasing -to which it is entitled 
under its terms. So, I suggest WFAC pays Mrs R £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset it caused her as well as waiving the outstanding fee as I think this, in the round, is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Joint policy
Mrs R has argued that she shouldnt have paid the full fee due for the policy which she held 
jointly with someone else. Our investigator explained that it was in the terms of the contract 
that she is jointly and severally liable to pay the fee on the full redress of a joint policy. And I 
can see that this is set out in the terms. I can also see that the invoices Mrs R received all 
showed the fee payable on the full amount of redress. So, I think Mrs R was aware (or 
shouldve been aware) she would be charged this, and paid the redress based on the award 
made by the lender.
Mrs R feels that WFAC should be confirming that the other policy holder received the 
redress and asked if he had been chased for it. But Mrs Rs agreement with WFAC prevents 
them from contacting any third party about her claims. So, whilst it had the joint policy 
holders permission to make the claim, it was Mrs R that instructed WFAC so it would be Mrs 
R it would contact about any of her claims. As Mrs R paid the invoices when she received 
the settlement, I think it was reasonable that WFAC didnt then contact a third party about 
her accounts or claims.The disagreement and confusion over the fees appears to relate to the fee being applied on 
the deducted tax. When calculating how much this would be, its a very similar amount to the 
shortfall. I can understand why Mrs R may now be confused over the joint policy redress, 
and the fee applied to this, but I think it was made clear in the invoices that the fees covered 
the full amount of the offer  not just her half. And the letter from the lender also shows that 
only half the redress is being paid to Mrs R. So, I do think she was made aware that she was 
paying a fee for the full redress on the joint policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R accepted the provisional decision. WFAC acknowledged the provisional decision but 
didnt make any further comments. As neither party has provided any additional evidence or 
comments, Im upholding this complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision 
(extract above).
Putting things right
To put things right, We Fight Any Claim Limited must waive the fee it has been chasing
Mrs R for. It must also pay Mrs R £100 compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused 
her.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I uphold this complaint. We Fight Any Claim Limited must 
follow the instructions I've set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman