DRN-4147629
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as E has complained that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited 
unfairly declined its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr V, a director of E, has brought the complaint on Es behalf through a representative. For 
ease of reading, I will refer to all actions and comments of Mr V and the representative as 
being those of E. 
What happened
E runs two language schools for which it held business interruption insurance with Hiscox. E 
claimed on its policy for losses it incurred during three different periods. These periods 
commenced March 2020, November 2020 and January 2021. 
Following the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Business 
Interruption Insurance test case, Hiscox paid Es clam for losses incurred for its claims 
which commenced in March 2020 and January 2021 but said that the claim for losses 
incurred in November 2020 was not covered. Hiscox said that it considered E to be an 
educational establishment and, as such, it had not experienced an inability to use its 
premises in November 2020 as a result of the Government restrictions. 
E complained to Hiscox. It said that the policy covered a hindrance of access as well as a 
denial of access and access to its premises had been hindered. 
Hiscox did not agree. It said the policy did not provide cover under the clause for non-
damage denial of access because Covid-19 was not an incident within one mile of the 
insured premises. It said the public authority clause under which it had provided cover was a 
hybrid clause, which meant that all parts of the clause had to be triggered in order for there 
to be cover. Hiscox said that, as E had not been required to close in November 2020, it did 
not experience an inability to use its premises which is what the policy required. It said that 
any difficulty in international students accessing the premises would be a different proximate 
cause, in line with paragraph 244 of the Supreme Court judgment. 
Hiscox said it had reviewed Es claim following the judgment in Corbin and King Ltd v AXA 
Insurance UK Plc [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) (Corbin & King) but said that this did not 
change its position. 
Unhappy with Hiscoxs response, E brought its complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator looked into Es complaint but did not recommend it be upheld. He thought 
Hiscox had fairly decided that there was no cover for Es November 2020 claim, as he did 
not think E had been unable to use its premises due to Government restrictions at that time. 
E did not agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It reiterated the points it had made 
in its complaint to Hiscox.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
E has made a separate complaint about the amount Hiscox paid to settle its claims for 
losses which commenced in March 2020 and January 2021. That is being dealt with 
separately. In this decision I am only going to consider Hiscoxs decision to decline Es claim 
for losses in November 2020. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Es business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality and each policy may provide 
different cover. 
I have considered Es policy carefully. The business interruption section of the policy 
provides cover for a number of events, most of which clearly do not apply to the 
circumstances of this claim. I have considered the section of cover that I believe are most 
relevant to this claim below: 
Public authority
This part of the policy provides cover for business interruption losses caused by: 
your inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority during the period of insurance following 
b. an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease, an 
outbreak of which must be notified to the local authority  
As Hiscox said, all parts of this clause would need to occur in order to the policy to provide 
cover. That means, in this case, E would need to have been unable to use its premises due 
to restrictions imposed by a public authority due to the occurrence of Covid-19
The term inability to use in relation to policies with the same wording as Es was 
considered as part of the FCAs test case. Paragraph 129 of the Supreme Courts judgment 
said: 
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 (set out at para 111 above) do not 
cover all business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority 
following an occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the 
interruption is caused by the policyholders inability to use the business 
premises due to such restrictions. 
The court went on to say, at paragraph 136: 
 an inability of use has to be established; not an impairment or hindrance in 
use. 
There were restrictions imposed in England in November 2020 by a public authority following 
an occurrence of Covid-19. And Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. I dont consider that 
this occurrence needed to have been either at or in the vicinity of the premises. And I dont 
consider that the restrictions needed to have specifically targeted Es business alone. The court also made it clear that it may be possible for a business to claim for losses that arose 
out of an inability to use its premises for a discrete part of its business activities. As such, 
this policy term would provide cover to a business that had been caused an inability to use 
their insured premises, for all or for a discrete part of its business. 
E has referred to the policy providing cover where there has been a hindrance as well as an 
inability to use. However, this clause does not cover a hindrance. And, in my opinion it is 
clear from the quote above that the court determined that impairment or hindrance of use 
would not be enough to trigger cover under these terms
So the question is whether or not E suffered an inability to use its premises. 
The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) (No. 4) Regulations 2020 (the 
November Regulations) are relevant, as they set out which businesses were required by the 
Government to close in November 2020.
Hiscox said that it considered E to be an educational establishment. I think this is reasonable 
as it is a language school. Educational establishments were not required to close by the 
November Regulations and people were permitted to leave their homes for the purpose of 
education. So, as Es business was not required to close, I think Hiscox acted fairly and 
reasonably in deciding that E did not have an inability to use its premises. 
E has provided emails from two Local Authorities in which its premises are based. This 
includes an extract from one Local Authority which said that it considered language schools 
to fall into the category of businesses which were broadly similar to businesses who could 
obtain business rate relief. E thought this supported its view that it was required to close. 
However, the email goes on to say that this guidance was removed. Given that the guidance 
was removed, and that the November Regulations allowed people to leave their homes for 
the purpose of education, I do not think that E was unable to use its premises. 
E has noted that international students would have had difficulty in attending. But I do not 
think that any restriction on international students travel would constitute an inability for E to 
use its premises. I say that because, any restriction would be on those students inability to 
travel and not on the use of Es premises.
Non-damage denial of access 
This part of the policy covers business interruption losses caused by: 
an incident occurring during the period of insurance within a one mile radius of 
the insured premises which results in a denial of access or hindrance in access to 
the insured premises, imposed by any civil or statutory authority or by order of the 
government or any public authority, for more than 24 consecutive hours.
I have already determined above that Es access to the premises was not denied or 
prevented. I, therefore, dont intend to make a finding on whether Es access to the insured 
premises was hindered because, even if it were, I dont think that any restrictions that may 
have caused such hindrance were as a result of an incident. I will explain why.
I think the FCA test case is relevant. The High Court said (at paras 404-405) about the need 
for an incident: 
 this word should be given the same essential meaning as an event: 
something which happens at a particular time, at a particular place, in a particular 
way an incident is not synonymous with emergency or danger it is a misuse of language both generally and on the correct construction of the NDDA 
clause to describe the pandemic as an incident let alone an incident 
occurring within a one mile radius of the insured premises. 
It may amount to a state of affairs but it istoo geographically dispersed, 
variegated, prolonged and non-specific to amount to an incident in any event, it 
is a misnomer to describe the presence of someone in the radius with the 
disease as an incident for the purposes of the clause.
This part of the judgment was not appealed to the Supreme Court and so is relevant case 
law.
Ive considered whether this position would be amended by the courts position in Corbin & 
King but I dont believe it would be. Thats because the judge said at paragraph 156: 
The word Incident also is capable of lending a very distinct colour to a wording 
 as the telling argument recorded at [398] of the Divisional Court's judgment 
makes clear. Its significance is underpinned by the Divisional Court's conclusion 
at [404] that In our judgment, the FCAs entire case on the NDDA founders on 
the requirement for an incident. 
I see no reason to depart from the findings of the High Court and do not therefore consider 
that there was an incident within the vicinity which prevented or hindered Es access to its 
premises. Therefore, I think Hiscox has acted fairly and reasonably in finding that this clause 
doesnt cover Es claim.
I do not think there is any other part of the policy that would provide cover for this claim 
either. Therefore, I am not going to require Hiscox to do anything further in relation to Es 
claim.
I recognise that this isnt the answer E was hoping for but, having considered things very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly uphold Es complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman