DRN-3704550
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car acquired with finance from Go Car Credit Limited (GCC) wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr B was supplied with a  car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with GCC. It was a condition of the agreement that a payment reminder system 
was fitted to the car.
Mr B experienced issues with the car intermittently immobilising. He reported the issue to 
GCC who arranged for the car to be inspected. The inspection took place in November 
2021. The inspector found no issues with the payment reminder device but replaced it to 
provide peace of mind to Mr B.
In early March 2022 Mr B contacted GCC to report that the car continued to intermittently 
immobilise. GCC investigated and found that an administrative error when the device was 
changed in November 2021 had prevented some messages from reaching the device. GCC 
resolved the administrative error and paid compensation to Mr B, but said that the 
administrative error wasnt the reason why the car was immobilising.
Mr B contacted GCC again in late March 2022 and said the car was failing to start again. 
GCC checked the payment reminder device but found no issues. GCC advised Mr B to have 
the car checked by a mechanic.
Mr B took the car to a garage who advised him that there was an issue with the key which 
was causing the immobiliser to activate. Mr B used the spare key but the issue persisted.
GCC arranged for a technician to check the payment reminder device but no fault was 
found. The technician removed the device to see if this would make a difference to the issue 
with the car not starting.
Mr B advised GCC that he hadnt experienced any issues with the car not starting since the 
device had been removed. GCC offered Mr B £50 compensation for the time it had taken to 
investigate his complaint.
Mr B remained unhappy and complained to this service. He says that GCC has told him that 
it is aware the device is causing an issue but that it needs to be re-installed in the car.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that based on the information hed 
seen, he couldnt safely conclude that the device was faulty or that it was causing the car not 
to start.
Mr B didnt agree. He said GCC had admitted to him that there was a signal issue 
connecting to the device which was causing the fault. He also said that since the device had 
been removed there had been no issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account all of the information provided by Mr B and GCC. In this decision, Ill 
comment on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a  specific point, it isnt because 
Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
GCC, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that the car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr B. Whether or not the car was of satisfactory quality will 
depend on a number of factors, such as the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. 
The car that was supplied to Mr B was around 7 years old and had covered around 82,000 
miles with a cash price of £5,999.
Mr B contacted GCC soon after the car was supplied because of an issue with the car 
intermittently failing to start. GCC checked the payment reminder system and found that it 
was in the default enabled mode.
It may be useful if I explain how the payment reminder system works. The device is 
connected to the battery and the starter motor, and is set to a default setting of enabled, 
meaning that the device doesnt intercept the starter motor. The enabled setting doesnt 
change unless payments under the finance agreement are missed, at which point the 
system enters a warning setting and emits a beep. If the customer doesnt make contact with 
GCC, the device would be sent a message to enter disabled mode, meaning that it would 
stop the starter motor from working. It isnt possible for the device to move from enabled to 
disabled without first entering warning mode.
Having checked that the device was in enabled mode, GCC arranged for a technician to 
check the device but no faults were found. GCC arranged for the device to be replaced in 
any event in November 2021.
Mr B says he continued to have issues with the car not starting. Ive reviewed the records 
held by GCC for the times when Mr B reported the car as failing to start. Based on what Ive 
seen, the payment reminder device hadnt entered disabled mode at these times.
Ive also reviewed the available engineering evidence . Theres no evidence to suggest that 
the payment reminder device is faulty, or that it isnt operating as it should,. The fact that Mr 
B continued to experience issues with the car failing to start after the payment reminder 
device was replaced suggests that the issue wasnt caused by the payment reminder device.
Theres nothing in the engineering evidence or the diagnostic report to link the issue of the 
car failing to start with a fault in the payment reminder device.
Taking all of the available evidence into account, I cant safely conclude that the device is 
faulty, or that it was the cause of the car failing to start. 
Ive gone on to consider whether there is a fault with the car which makes it of unsatisfactory 
quality. In order to be satisfied that that issue with the car failing to start was due to a fault 
with the car, Id need to see an engineers report or some other persuasive engineering 
evidence which states that there is a fault. Ive reviewed all of the available evidence but 
there isnt enough to persuade me that a fault has been diagnosed which is causing the car 
to fail to start.I appreciate that Mr B hasnt experienced any issue with the car failing to start since the 
device was removed. And I understand Mr Bs concerns here  he feels that this proves that 
the issues with the car failing to start were caused by the device and he doesnt want it re-
installed. Mr B says hes been told by the complaints department at GCC that the device 
wont be installed, but hes received conflicting information from the collections department 
at GCC. Mr B also says that when hes discussed this issue with GCC, it has agreed with 
him that the device (or the connection to the device) is causing the issue.
Ive thought about everything that Mr B has said. Ive also reviewed the notes of a 
conversation this service had with GCC. The notes say that although GCC hasnt accepted 
that the device is faulty, it has agreed not to re-install the device whilst the complaint to this 
service is ongoing.
Based on everything Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence for me to conclude that the 
device  or the connection to the device  is faulty. And there isnt enough evidence for me 
to safely conclude that there is some other fault with the car which is causing the issue. I 
accept that Mr B hasnt experienced the fault recently, but I cant be certain that this is 
because the device was removed, because the evidence suggests that the fault has always 
been intermittent in any event. For these reasons, Im unable to conclude that the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
GCC has acknowledged that it has taken some time to respond to Mr Bs complaint and has 
offered compensation of £50. I think this is a reasonable offer and I wont be asking GCC to 
increase it.
I recognise that Mr B doesnt want the device re-installed. This service doesnt have the 
power to instruct GC not to re-install the device. This is something that Mr B will have to 
discuss with GCC directly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman