DRN-3681676
The complaint
Mr D complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (U K Insurance) handling of his claim and 
failure to identify the source of a leak, under his home emergency policy. 
Any reference to U K Insurance includes its contractors and agents. 
What happened
Mr D contacted U K Insurance to investigate a leak he thought was originating from his 
bathroom and entering his neighbours flat below. He says a plumber arrived and told him he 
would need to remove the flooring to find the leak. The plumber wasnt able to do this 
without authorisation from the insurer and so did nothing further. 
Mr D says he investigated the leak himself. He excluded the heating and water systems as 
the cause, but the damage resulting from the leak got worse. When he contacted U K 
Insurance again, he says it refused to arrange for the plumber to reattend. Mr D says 
another plumber did eventually attend, which was arranged using different cover he has with 
U K Insurance. The plumber found that the issue was caused by defective sealant in the 
shower base. 
U K Insurance says that when its engineer inspected the bathroom, he couldnt find an active 
leak. But as the floor was tiled, he couldnt investigate further. U K Insurance says Mr D 
contacted it four days later as he hadnt heard anything further about his claim. It says it 
informed him he would need to arrange for the floor tiles to be removed, for further 
investigation to be carried out. 
U K Insurance says that following a further engineers assessment the leak was found to be 
the result of defective sealant in the shower base. Replacing the sealant fixed the problem. 
U K Insurance says it should have informed Mr D sooner that no further assistance could be 
provided. It says the leak wasnt visible from above and wasnt apparent during its engineers 
visit as the shower wasnt being used. 
U K Insurance says its Mr Ds responsibility to maintain his property and that faulty sealant is 
considered a maintenance issue. It says its policy doesnt provide for further assistance in 
these circumstances. And that it isnt responsible for damage caused to the flat below. 
However, it did pay him £75 compensation for not informing him earlier that it couldnt 
provide more help. 
Mr D is concerned that he was told the floor would need to be lifted when this wasnt 
necessary. He wasnt satisfied with U K Insurances response to his complaint and referred 
the matter to our service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. He thought the first plumber 
that attended should have identified the leak was caused by defective sealant. He says the 
policy terms dont cover this issue. But the repairs couldve been arranged sooner.
Our investigator says U K Insurance shouldve told Mr D it wasnt able to help earlier. But 
that the damage to the ceiling in the flat below had already occurred. This meant repairs 
were required anyway. But he says U K Insurance should increase its compensation 
payment to £200 to acknowledge the issues raised.      
Mr D didnt think this was a fair outcome. He asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Let me explain.
Ive read the policy terms relating to Mr Ds cover to understand what his policy provides. 
The terms define an emergency as:
An incident in the home that happens during the period of insurance and which needs to be 
dealt with quickly to avoid:
making the home unsafe or insecure for you
damaging the home and its contents, or 
the home losing its main source of heating, lighting or water (hot or cold). 
Mr D reported a leak from his bathroom causing damage to the flat below. I think this 
reasonably qualifies as an emergency under the definition here. U K Insurance accepted the 
claim and arranged for its engineer to attend the same day the leak was reported, which I 
think was reasonable. 
The terms under the heading, If you have an emergency say:
If there is an emergency in your home, when you call us:
we will tell you what you can do in order to protect yourself and your home
we will send an authorised repairer to your home
we will pay up to £500 (including VAT) for each emergency assistance call out to 
cover the cost of:
 the call out
 labour at your home
 parts.
   
In its complaint response U K Insurance says that neither, leak detection or Trace and 
Access are services covered by Mr Ds policy. Because its engineer couldnt identify an 
active leak, it says the only course of action was to investigate further, which isnt something 
its home emergency policy provides for.
I cant see that leak detection is something that is specifically included in Mr Ds home 
emergency cover. However, this is a moot point, as its clear the leak was caused by faulty 
sealant in the shower base. The second engineer that attended didnt need to lift the 
bathroom floor or carry out other invasive investigations to identify this. 
U K Insurance says replacing bathroom sealant is a maintenance issue. It says this isnt 
covered by Mr Ds policy. 
Ive looked at the, General Conditions section of his policy terms to understand what this says in relation to maintenance issues. The terms say:
Preventing loss
You must take reasonable care to prevent loss, injury or liability, damage or accidents to the 
buildings and contents covered under this policy.
Maintaining your buildings and contents
You must keep the buildings, contents and personal possessions covered under this policy 
in good condition.
    
The terms are clear that cover isnt provided for issues relating to a lack of maintenance. I 
think U K Insurances view that defective bathroom sealant is a maintenance issue is 
reasonable. So, I dont think it behaved unfairly in not carrying out repairs. 
Ive read the notes from the first engineers visit. It doesnt provide much detail but does say 
there is a leak from Mr Ds bathroom affecting the flat below. It also says the bathroom is 
tiled and there is no visible leak or access to the flat below. The second engineer who 
attended, thought the leak was caused by defective sealant. Mr D was advised not to use 
the shower to see if the leak stopped. It did, which confirmed the sealant was the issue. 
I think its reasonable to expect the first engineer to have identified this as the potential 
cause. But there is no evidence that he did from U K Insurances records or from Mr Ds 
testimony.   
The policy terms say that U K Insurance will tell Mr D what to do in order to protect his home. 
Cover wasnt provided to repair the cause of the leak under the policy terms. But had the 
sealant been identified as a potential source of the leak, Mr D would have known what 
repairs were required at an earlier stage. 
U K Insurance acknowledges it shouldve told Mr D earlier that it couldnt provide further 
assistance. I agree. This shouldve been explained at the time of the first engineers visit. As 
this didnt happen, I think its fair that U K Insurance compensates Mr D for the upset he was 
caused. 
It must have been stressful for Mr D to have dealt with the ongoing leak, given that it was 
causing damage to his neighbours property. Poor communication from U K Insurance and 
the failure to identify the cause of the leak by its engineer added to this. I note Mr Ds 
comments that he didnt use the heating for several days to see if that was the problem.  
This was during winter when it was cold.  
Because U K Insurance didnt communicate effectively the onus was with Mr D to try and 
resolve the problem. This caused him some distress and inconvenience. To acknowledge 
these points, I think U K Insurance should pay Mr D £200 compensation in total. 
I have thought about Mr Ds comments that the delay in identifying the source of the leak 
caused more damage to his neighbours ceiling. He says what couldve been a light mark 
ended up with marks covering the entire ceiling, which cost £600 to repaint. I acknowledge 
Mr Ds comments. But I think damage had already occurred that required redecoration of the 
ceiling, prior to the first engineers attendance. 
I say this because Mr D explains the leak into the neighbours property is how he became 
aware of the issue. He also says there would have been some marks on the ceiling even if 
this had been identified earlier. I dont think redecorating the ceiling couldve been avoided  
even if the source of the leak had been identified earlier. So, I dont think its fair to ask U K insurance to pay for this.   
In summary, I dont think U K Insurance treated Mr D fairly when it failed to identify the 
source of the leak, and for its poor communication. Its reasonable for it to pay £200 
compensation to acknowledge this. But I dont think its responsible for the ceiling damage 
so Im not asking it to pay for the cost of redecorating.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. U K Insurance Limited should:
pay Mr D £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. U K 
Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman