DRN-4123981
The complaint
Miss C complains of issues with  a car she acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement 
with Startline Motor Finance Limited (Startline) wasnt fit for purpose. She would like 
compensation for the time she didnt have use of the car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
There is no dispute that  the diesel particulate filter (DPF) was in an advanced state 
of blockage when Mis C got her car which took two attempts to resolve. Miss C 
accepted our investigators recommendation that Startline refund her monthly 
payments for the time she was without the car for the final repair  25 October 2022 
to 31 January 2023. Startline didnt accept this. It accepted there had been a delay in 
resolving the issue  but felt the DPF was a serviceable item that could expect to be 
replaced and a repair was offered. So, the issue for me to decide is what , if any , 
compensation is appropriate.
An independent report on 25 November 2022  confirmed the blockage and a repair 
was offered on 12 December 2022. Miss C declined this as  she wanted to reject the 
car and put in her complaint to us. She then accepted the repair in early January 
2023 but the next available slot for a repair  was 31 January 2023.
The independent report caried out in November 2022 confirmed the DPF was in an 
advanced state of blockage at the point of purchase. It also stated as the supplying 
dealership regenerated the DPF in July 2022 it was responsible for further work on 
the DPF. Whilst Startline has accepted that I dont, Startline is still responsible for the 
quality of goods at the point of sale. 
I accept the DPF might be seen as a serviceable item but there was clearly an issue 
with it at the point of sale and although Miss C took out an agreement for a used car 
so she might reasonably expect more wear, tear, and repair issues than with a new 
one, the car was only 5 years old with relatively low mileage. So, I think she could 
have expected the DPF to be in working order.
As the independent report stated the car was unfit for use on public highways as the 
car was in limp mode due to the DPF blockage his supports Miss C not being able to 
use the car prior to when the inspection was carried out. So, I am persuaded Miss C 
didnt have use of the car from October 25, 2022, when she stopped using it and 
raised the issue with Startline until after the independent report had been carried out 
on November 25, 2022, and a repair offered on 12 December 2022. And I think its 
fair to refund her monthly  payments for this period when she was without use of a 
car.
However, I dont feel its fair to refund monthly payments after 12 December 2022 as 
the delay after this point was due to Miss C not initially accepting a repair. I have 
sought both Miss Cs and Startlines view on this. Startline agreed with my view but 
Miss C didnt. Unfortunately, I dont agree with Miss Cs point that all the delay was 
down to Startline. It offered a reasonable date for a repair that she chose not to 
accept. By the time she accepted a repair I dont think she could reasonably have 
expected this to be done instantaneously or to necessarily be provided with an 
alternative car during this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Startline Motor Finance Limited should:-
Refund the monthly payments Miss C made from and including 25 October 2022 to 
12 December 2022 with 8% simple interest added from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman