DRN-3708877
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Covea Insurance Limited (Covea) declined to pay for items lost 
when their cars were stolen, which they attempted to claim under their home contents 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ss home was broken into and car keys were stolen. Two cars were taken, and 
these had personal belongings inside. They made a claim to Covea for the break in and 
thefts, which it accepted. But it declined to cover the personal belongings that were inside 
their cars, as there was no cover for this under their policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs S say the items were stolen whilst inside their property boundary and should be 
covered. They say this lack of cover wasnt made clear at the time the policy was sold. They 
also say they were unaware Covea was their insurer and refer to it not having good reviews 
online. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to Covea but it maintained its position that there was no cover in 
place. So, they referred their complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She didnt think Mr and Mrs Ss policy provided cover for their loss. She thought 
Covea had treated them fairly. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint. 
Its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Im sorry to 
disappoint them but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
I understand Covea has agreed to provide cover for items Mr and Mrs S reported stolen from 
their home during the break-in. But it isnt prepared to cover items taken along with their 
cars. In its complaint response the business says the policy definition of, home is:
The private residence at the address shown in your Policy Schedule including its garages 
and outbuildings as detailed in the deeds of the property.
Mr and Mrs S made a claim under their home insurance for a theft from their home. The 
definition refers to buildings, it doesnt include theft from a car. So, I dont think Covea 
behaved unfairly in declining the claim based on this definition. 
Covea also considered whether Mr and Mrs Ss loss could be included under cover for 
contents in the garden. It concluded cover wasnt provided as the items were kept in a car 
and not out in the open. It says the intention of this part of the policy is to cover garden 
items.   
Ive read Mr and Mrs Ss policy terms to understand what this section of their policy provides 
cover for. Under, Contents Cover, section 18 says:
What is covered
We will pay up to £1,000 for any one claim for loss or damage by contents causes 1 and 3
11 to contents when in the open within the boundaries of the home.
Items such as garden furniture, external freestanding statues and garden pots are included 
within this section. 
Mr and Mrs S say the theft took place on their driveway so within the boundary of their 
home. Ive thought about whether cover is provided under this part of the policy. But I dont 
think it is. Its not disputed that the cars were within the boundaries of the home when the 
theft occurred. But the terms are clear that this relates to contents that are in the open. The 
items were inside a car, and so arent covered under their policy. 
I note under the heading, Personal Possessions toward the end of the contents policy 
terms, cover is provided for theft from an unattended motor vehicle. This is optional cover 
that Mr and Mrs S could choose to have. Ive looked at their policy schedule  but this isnt 
something they chose when taking out this insurance. So, unfortunately there was no cover 
here either.
Im sorry that Mr and Mrs Ss home was broke into and for the losses theyve suffered. I can 
understand that this must have been very upsetting for them. But I dont think Covea treated 
them unfairly when relying on its policy terms and declining to cover the items stolen with 
their cars, for the reasons it gave. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any more to resolve 
their complaint. 
Finally, Mrs S says she wasnt informed of the policy limitations when taking out this 
insurance and she didnt know Covea was the underwriter. I cant see that Mr and Mrs S 
included these issues in the complaint they made to the business. So, I cant consider these 
points here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman