DRN-2454251
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Society of Lloyds (SOL) declined claims he made on his income 
protection policies.
 
What happened
In April 2016 Mr C took out two income protection polices:
A policy underwritten by a business Ill refer to as Insurer Q with a monthly benefit of 
£1250 
A Keystone policy underwritten by SOL with a monthly benefit of £3000 
In April 2017 Mr C was contacted by his broker, who Ill refer to as A about the renewal of 
the policies. Following discussions with A Mr C didnt renew the policy with Insurer Q. 
Instead he took out a Safeshield policy, also underwritten by SOL, which provided a benefit 
of £1250. So, from that point he had two policies underwritten by SOL with a total benefit of 
£4250. 
In January 2019 Mr C was placed on notice that he was at risk of redundancy and he was 
made redundant in July 2019. He claimed on the policies and part of the claim was rejected. 
SOL agreed to pay £3000 under the Keystone policy but not £1250 under the Safeshield 
policy. 
SOL said, with reference to the terms and conditions of the policy, that the maximum level of 
cover for all policies underwritten by SOL was set out in the schedule regardless of the total 
monthly benefit Mr C had taken out. They offered to refund the premiums from the 
Safeshield policy in addition to 8% simple interest. 
I understand that Mr C asked SOL to keep the policy in place whilst he complained to our 
service and that he has also raised a complaint about A in relation to the mis-sale of the 
policy.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. She 
thought that Lloyds had acted fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions. Whilst 
she acknowledged Mr Cs point that hed been over-insured she thought Lloyds had acted 
fairly by offering to refund the premiums for the Safeshield policy. 
Mr C didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. In summary, he said 
that the reason SOL declined the claim was because he held two policies with them. So, if 
hed taken out the second policy with another provider, hed have been able to make a claim 
without issue. Mr C says it also wasnt clear to him that both policies were underwritten by 
SOL and that it shouldnt be possible to set up two policies with SOL. 
So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SOL has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a 
claim unreasonably. 
Mr C has made a number of representations but Ill focus on those which I think are central 
to the outcome of this complaint. 
The Safeshield Policy
The Safeshield policy schedule says: 
The maximum Total Benefit payable under this certificate and other certificates, if 
any, issued under this contract shall not in response of any one insured period, in 
aggregate exceed £2000 per month
The policy schedule is branded with Lloyds information and the administrators of the policy 
(MMS). The policy terms and conditions say: 
If you have any other unemployment, accident, sickness, disability or carer cover in 
addition to this policy then on acceptance of any claim, the amount payable under 
this policy will be reduced by the greater of the amount covered elsewhere or the 
amount by which the combined benefit would exceed gross income
And: 
The maximum total benefit shown in the schedule is the maximum we will pay in total 
for any one claim month, regardless of the amount of the monthly benefit under this 
or any cover you have with us. No refund of premium will apply in respect of any 
amount that you have over insured in excess of this limit.
The Keystone Policy
The Keystone policy schedule says: 
The maximum Total Benefit payable under this certificate and other certificates, if 
any, issued under this contract shall not in response of any one insured period, in 
aggregate exceed £3000 per month
The policy documentation also contains the Lloyds branding and the details of the same 
administrator.  
The terms and conditions say: 
If you have other cover providing similar benefits to this policy then, on acceptance of 
any claim, the amount payable under this policy will be reduced by the greater of the 
amount covered elsewhere for the same commitment(s) or the amount by which the 
combined benefit would exceed net income
And:
The maximum total benefit shown in the schedule is the maximum we will pay in total 
for any one claim month, regardless of the amount of the monthly benefit under this 
or any other cover you have with us. If we find that cover has existed more than the maximum total benefit amount, we will arrange for a refund in respect of any amount 
that exceeds this limit.
Has SOL treated Mr C fairly? 
Im sorry to hear about the circumstances of this case  I can understand and empathise 
with the situation Mr C found himself it when his claim was declined. I can also appreciate 
how stressful and frustrating it was to find he wasnt able to claim for the full amount he 
thought his policies insured him for. But I dont think SOL treated him unfairly because: 
Any concerns about the sale of the policy would need to be directed to the broker, A. 
That would include any advice given to Mr C which led to him being over-insured. Im 
aware Mr C has made a complaint but I dont know what the outcome of that was. 
But I dont think its unreasonable for SOL to act on, and underwrite the insurance 
policies, on the basis of the information provided to them by the broker
I dont think it was unfair for SOL to decline the claim in part. I think the policy 
schedules both make it adequately clear that there is a maximum benefit that SOL 
will pay if one or more policies are held with them. I think theyve acted reasonably by 
assessing the claim and paying the higher policy benefit from the Keystone policy. 
And they have offered to refund the premiums, plus interest, for the Safeshield policy 
as Mr C hasnt been able to utilise the policy
Mr C says that it wasnt clear that the policies were underwritten by the same insurer 
and hes referred to the definitions section of the policies in support of that. But I think 
it would have been adequately clear from the product schedule and information that 
the policies were underwritten by SOL and administered by MMS, particularly given 
how the policy documents and schedule are branded. And, given the wording on the 
policy schedule, I think SOL did enough to bring this to Mr Cs attention. In any event, 
theyve also offered to pay back the additional premiums, despite the wording in the 
Safeshield policy which says they arent required to do so
Ive taken into account what Mr C has said about two policies being set up with SOL 
and his query about why that was possible. But SOL is a large insurer, underwriting a 
wide range of products which operate in a multitude of ways. So, I dont think I can 
fairly say that SOL should have identified Mr C was over-insured on the basis that 
they underwrote two income protection policies for him.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman