DRN-2651060
The complaint
Mr B complains that Hoist Finance UK Limited is asking him to repay a debt which he 
doesnt owe, and which Hoist cannot give him any evidence about.
Mr B wants Hoist to stop asking him to repay the alleged debt.
What happened
In December 2019, Hoist bought a debt from a business I will call B. Mr B says he doesnt 
know anything about the debt and has no records of any payments to B over the years.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. The investigator thought it was reasonable 
of Hoist to ask Mr B to repay the debt. He explained to Mr B that most of his concerns arose 
before Hoist took over the account. The investigator was satisfied that once Mr B raised 
concerns about the debt, Hoist took steps to find out more.
Mr B wasnt happy with the investigators recommendation. He doesnt like being referred to 
as part of a book of debt that Hoist bought. Mr B has no record of a default notice from B and 
Hoist hasnt been able to give him a copy. He says he has no record of receiving any annual 
statements from B. 
Mr B is surprised that with B claiming he made his last payment in April 2018, he hadnt 
been chased for payment until early 2020. He doesnt think Hoist has enough evidence to 
support its claim for payment. Overall, Mr B has no knowledge of the alleged debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this, where the evidence is inconclusive, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That means Ill look at all the available evidence and decide what I think is most 
likely to have happened.
Although Hoist appointed another business to help recover the debt from Mr B, I will 
continue to refer to Hoist in my decision as it owns the debt.
Im sorry to hear about the upset that Mr B has felt as a result of being asked to repay a debt 
that he says he doesnt remember or owe. I understand from Mr B that he has complained to 
B but is waiting to hear more. I appreciate that it will be frustrating for Mr B, but I can only 
consider his complaint as it relates to Hoist, and not B. 
Hoist has given us a copy of the credit card application that it says Mr B signed in 
September 1999. Hoist has provided copies of the notice of assignment that it and B sent to 
Mr B. Hoist has also given us a spreadsheet detailing the debt amount and default date, 
together with some of the monthly payments that B says Mr B made. Im satisfied that Hoist 
has taken reasonable steps to check that Mr B owes the debt. 
Mr B says the credit card application doesnt indicate what card it is for. I agree that the copy 
isnt very easy to read but it is possible to make the company name out, together with Mr Bs 
name, address and signature. It might help to remind Mr B that the company named on the 
application form operated a credit card brand which was later bought by B. So, the original 
credit card application doesnt mention B.
I appreciate that Hoist says it wont take legal action against Mr B to recover the debt, but I 
dont think that this necessarily means the debt doesnt exist or that its unfair to ask Mr B for 
his repayment proposals. As I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint, I dont require Hoist to take any 
further action to put things right.
Mr B says hes already complained to B and hasnt had a reply yet. If B doesnt reply or 
when it does, Mr B is unhappy with its response, he can of course come back to this service 
for further help. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman