DRN-4273452
The complaint
M a limited company complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed its bank account 
which led to loss of business.
Ms complaint has been brought to our service by its director, Mr N.
What happened
M had a business account with Barclays which was opened in 2009. 
In the summer of 2021, M secured a contract to supply goods to an overseas customer.  
However, Ms customer wasnt able to make payments via wire transfer for goods, so as part 
of the contract, Mr N approached Barclays to set up an export letter of credit (ELOC). 
Barclays considered Mr Ns request and asked him for more information about his business 
and the contract, which Mr N provided.
Following this Barclays reviewed everything and said it wasnt prepared to offer M an ELOC. 
It also decided to close Ms account and wrote to Mr N giving him 60 days notice that hed 
need to make alternative banking arrangements for M.  Mr N complained to Barclays. He 
pointed out that M had been a long standing customer of the bank, and nothing had changed 
over the years regarding how M did business and who it traded with, which included 
international customers. He asked Barclays to explain why it no longer wanted M as a 
customer. 
In response Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong and had closed Ms account in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. It also explained that it didnt have to give Mr N 
an explanation why it no longer wanted M as a customer. Unhappy with this response, Mr N 
brought Ms complaint to this service. He said as a result of Barclays closing Ms account, M 
lost out on the contract which he said was worth around $120,000 USD and missed out on 
further potential business worth between $200,000 and $300,000 USD. He wants Barclays 
to provide him with a proper explanation for why it closed Ms account and pay 
compensation for Ms financial losses.
One of our investigators looked into Ms complaint. She didnt think Barclays had treated M 
unfairly when it had closed its account. And she explained that the bank didnt need to 
provide an explanation for its decision. Mr N disagreed. He maintains that M has been 
treated unfairly by Barclays. He wants compensation and Ms account reopened. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Barclays 
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. But I want to 
assure Mr N, on behalf of M, that I have considered everything that he and Barclays have 
submitted as part of this complaint. 
Its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to 
provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to 
do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to 
compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks are entitled to end their relationship with a customer, as long as this is done fairly, and 
doesnt breach law or regulations and is in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Barclays have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Ms account. The terms 
explain that the bank can close the account immediately and by providing two months 
notice. 
In this case Barclays closed Ms account with full notice  60 days. Having read Barclays 
terms and conditions for its business customers this is in line with the terms and conditions 
of the account. So, Im not persuaded Barclays treated M unfairly when they closed its 
account. It wouldnt be appropriate to make an award for compensation for that, since I dont 
believe that Barclays acted inappropriately in taking the actions that it did.
I know Mr N wants Barclays to explain the reason it closed Ms account. It cant be pleasant 
being told youre no longer wanted as a customer. So, I can understand why Mr N was 
upset. But Barclays is under no obligation to tell Mr N the reasons behind the account 
closure, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving 
Mr N this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so.
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr N feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating and upsetting time. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But 
overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Barclays has acted unreasonably and 
treated M unfairly when it closed Ms account. So, I wont be asking Barclays to do anything, 
and I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman