DRN-3235391
The complaint
Mr P complains that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd (CT) unfairly voided his home 
insurance policy and declined a subsidence claim.
  
What happened
In August 2017, Mr P took out a home insurance policy underwritten by CT. It renewed the 
following year. In August 2019, Mr P took out a policy with a different insurer, A.
In January 2020 Mr P made a claim to A after hed noticed damage thought to be caused by 
subsidence. I understand A declined the claim and suggested Mr P get in touch with his 
previous insurer. He did that and CT appointed a loss adjuster to investigate the claim.
In September 2020, the loss adjuster said the policy had been voided  which means 
treating it as if it had never existed. And because of that the claim wouldnt be considered. It 
said the premiums Mr P paid had been returned to his broker.
When Mr P took out the policy in 2017, he was asked whether the property had signs of, or a 
history of, subsidence damage. Mr P said it hadnt. The loss adjuster didnt think this was 
correct. It referred to reports Mr P had obtained from a structural engineer, G, which it said 
showed a history of cracking, movement and subsidence going back to 2015. And it said CT 
wouldnt have offered the policy had it known this.
Mr P didnt think this was fair and complained. He didnt think Gs reports from 2015 had 
mentioned subsidence and its later reports had confirmed that. He also thought it had taken 
CT too long to reach its outcome. In the meantime, Mr P and his family had moved out of the 
home due to their concerns about the stability of the structure. He explained how this had 
caused them considerable distress, inconvenience and financial loss.
CT was satisfied it had treated Mr P fairly. It said it hadnt been provided with Gs reports 
until April 2020. It accepted slight delays due to the Covid 19 pandemic but said further 
enquiries and consideration was needed before reaching its decision. It maintained Gs 2015 
report referred to cracking and movement.
Our investigator thought CT had acted fairly when it voided the policy. And she didnt 
consider CT had caused unreasonable delays when investigating the claim.
Mr P didnt agree and made a number of points. In summary:
Gs 2015 diagnosis was corrected and explained in subsequent reports.
The 2015 damage wasnt a cause for concern, otherwise he would have made a 
claim much sooner. Subsidence wasnt diagnosed until much later.
He thought CT was using the pandemic as an excuse, especially as he made his 
claim two months before it started.
CT didnt have to carry out any investigations, he provided all the information.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so Mr Ps complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I should make clear this complaint is solely about CT and whether it acted fairly. I cant 
consider here the way A acted when it dealt with Mr Ps claim. And I understand Mr P took 
out the policy through an insurance broker. I cant consider their role in this complaint here 
either. Mr P is entitled to raise separate complaint about other companies if he wishes. 
This dispute has arisen because CT considers Mr P misrepresented his circumstances when 
he took out his policy in 2017.
The relevant law for this situation is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (or CIDRA). In summary, under CIDRA, if theres been a 
misrepresentation by the consumer, and the insurer can show that, without the 
misrepresentation, it wouldnt have offered the policy, its entitled to void the policy.
The first step is to consider the relevant question CT asked. Its provided a copy of Mr Ps 
statement of fact. The question it says Mr P didnt answer reasonably is:
Is the property and neighbouring properties free from signs of damage, and have no 
history of damage by  subsidence?
The answered recorded is yes.
Under CIDRA, Mr P is required to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
Amongst other things, this means he must answer questions to the best of his knowledge 
and belief  based on what he ought reasonably to have known at that point in time.
CT says Gs report from 2015 should have given Mr P reason to answer this question no. 
And had he done so, CT has shown it wouldnt have offered cover for his property. So Ive 
considered what the report says.
In summary, the report describes cracking throughout the property. G thought some of this 
had been caused by roof spread due to a lack of support in the roof structure. And it noted 
some related water ingress as a result of the gutters bowing. It goes on to say other cracking 
had been caused by ground under the foundations weakening due to a leaking sewer or 
gully. G recommended a drain survey and soil testing. Ive seen a drain survey that was 
carried out later in 2015  but not an accompanying report to explain what it found.
I agree with Mr P that the 2015 report doesnt mention the word subsidence. I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest he has the specialist knowledge to interpret the comments within 
the report as being signs of subsidence damage. The statement of fact has recorded his 
occupation as telecommunications systems engineer. G, a structural engineer, has said it 
wasnt clear what was causing the problem in 2015. I understand thats why it didnt use the 
word subsidence. As G wasnt sure the problem was a sign of subsidence, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to expect Mr P to know that it was.
The policy renewed in 2018. The statement of fact for that year contained the same question 
and same answer as 2017.The next report Ive seen is from G in November 2018, after the policy had renewed. It said 
this was its second assessment following its previous 2015 report. So there doesnt appear 
to have been any other reports from G between 2015 and Mr P renewing the policy in 2018.
The 2018 G report says theres evidence of subsidence  which wasnt evident in 2015. It 
recommended further investigation. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think this is the first 
point Mr P should reasonably have been aware there were signs of subsidence. 
I must consider what Mr P ought reasonably to have known when he took the policy out in 
August 2017  and when it renewed in 2018. As he only had the benefit of the 2015 report at 
those times, Im not satisfied he ought to have considered the property was suffering from 
subsidence.
As a result, I consider Mr P answered the above question reasonably and didnt make a 
misrepresentation in 2017 or 2018. And that means I consider CT acted unfairly when it 
voided the policy based on his answer to this question.
To put things right, CT should reinstate the policy and consider the claim, subject to the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It should also remove any record of Mr Ps 
policy being voided from its records and any other databases, such as CUE.
When CT considers the claim, it will need to decide whether to accept the claim for 
subsidence damage. To do that, it may need to consider Gs reports and it may consider 
further investigations of its own are necessary. I understand Mr P moved out of the property 
due to concerns about his familys safety living in the property with the damage. He says 
theyve been living in a rental property since, incurring a second set of costs, such as rent 
and utility bills, on top of that he has paid for his own property. So I think CT should also 
consider Mr Ps claim for alternative accommodation and associated costs.
Timescale
Mr P got in touch with CT to begin the claim process in January 2020. I understand the loss 
adjuster visited the property soon after.
Mr P provided the loss adjuster a copy of Gs 2015 report in early February 2020. He also 
provided copies of investigations that had been carried out in 2019. The loss adjuster asked 
whether G had reported updated findings based on the outcome of the investigations. Mr P 
explained they hadnt done so, but he would ask them to. G provided a further report to Mr P 
in April 2020, and he passed it to the loss adjuster. I understand this is why CT said it didnt 
have all relevant information until April 2020.
I think it was reasonable for CT to wait until it had obtained this information before deciding 
what the outcome of the claim should be. If it had accepted the claim at that point, Gs 
findings would likely have been relevant for deciding what the next steps should be  and 
this would likely have been quicker and more efficient than the loss adjuster arranging for 
similar investigations and engineering input.
From this point, I think it would have been reasonable for CT to decide the outcome of the 
claim and next steps in around a month, taking things to May 2020. Instead it took nearly 
five. Based on the information CT has provided, its not clear why things took so long. As a 
result, I think there was an unnecessary and avoidable delay of around four months in 
reaching an outcome for the claim. And, as result of Mr P having to go through the complaint 
process, there is greater delay to consider. Assuming my final decision is along similar lines 
and Mr P accepts it, the claim is likely to continue in January 2022. That means a total delay 
of around 20 months.During that time Mr P has suffered distress and inconvenience. Whilst he hasnt been living 
in a damaged home, hes still had the uncertainty about how and when the problem will be 
solved  and how it will be paid for. Hes also been concerned about paying for two sets of 
living costs for an indeterminate amount of time and the impact this would have on the 
familys finances. Mr P has experienced this distress and worry over a prolonged period of 
time. Im satisfied this has had a substantial impact on him. In these circumstances, I 
consider CT should pay compensation proportionate to that impact. I think £1,500 is a 
reasonable amount. This payment is solely to compensate for avoidable distress and isnt 
intended to cover any financial loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr P agreed with my provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add.
CT disagreed. It asked me to consider the photos in Gs 2015 report and said the severity of 
the cracking shown within it ought to have prompted Mr P to let CT know about the damage 
when he took out the policy. CT said it would then have been able to ask further questions 
and potentially carry out its own survey prior to deciding whether to offer Mr P a policy.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I had considered Gs 2015 report before reaching my provisional decision, but Ive looked at 
it again, including the photos. Whilst I agree they show cracking, I dont think thats the 
important point here.
I set out in my provisional decision that the relevant law for this situation is CIDRA. It 
requires Mr P to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. That includes a duty 
to answer questions to the best of his knowledge, based on what he ought reasonably to 
have known at that point in time. Hes not required to volunteer information hes not asked 
about or to anticipate what an insurer may wish to know  he must simply answer the 
questions put to him with reasonable care.
CT voided the policy because it said Mr P had made a misrepresentation when answering 
one particular question  whether the property had any signs of damage, or a history of 
damage, by subsidence.
CT considers the 2015 report ought to have made Mr P aware there was a subsidence 
problem. Thats because the photos show cracking and the report mentions movement 
possibly caused by a leaking drain. It also suggests the foundation and subsoil should be 
investigated as they may be contributing to the problem. The report doesnt diagnose the 
problem as subsidence or mention the word subsidence at all.
Gs later report, after the policy had renewed in 2018, said it thought there was a subsidence 
problem. It specifically said this hadnt been evident in 2015. I understand recent movement 
had been identified and, with the benefit of the investigations it had recommended, G was 
then able to diagnose a subsidence problem.
G is a structural engineer and its report didnt link the damage to a subsidence problem in 
2015. So Im not persuaded it would be fair to expect Mr P to consider there were signs of a 
subsidence problem then. And it was only after the policy had been taken out and renewed 
that he was made aware there was a subsidence problem.Overall Im satisfied Mr P took reasonable care when answering the question. As a result, 
CT has no remedy under CIDRA and so it was unfair to void the policy and decline the claim.
Neither party objected to or commented on my proposed award, including the compensation. 
So I see no reason to change it or comment on it further.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd to do the following:
Reinstate Mr Ps policy
Reconsider Mr Ps claim for subsidence and alternative accommodation, subject to 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
Remove any record of the voidance from its own records and any other databases
Pay £1,500 compensation
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman