DRN-2829186
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds valuation of his car after it was 
written off in an accident.
 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said after looking at the 
specifications of Mr Cs vehicle he was satisfied the offer from Admiral (£3,450) was fair and 
in line with the trade guides used by this service. 
Mr C disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said there was a big difference 
between the price of similar cars to his being advertised (around £5,000) and Admirals offer. 
So, he felt he should be offered a similar amount to the cost of buying a car based upon the 
advertised prices. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why below.
I appreciate Mr Cs concern that he hasnt been able to find a replacement car of equal value 
with the settlement Admiral has offered. Mr Cs policy says Admiral will settle the claim by 
paying him the market value of his car at the time of the loss. But that sum isnt necessarily 
the same amount that the car was purchased for or is advertised for. 
Its not this services role to provide an exact valuation of the car. We consider if the offer 
being made is reasonable based upon the trade guides we use. Those guides are based on 
likely selling prices rather than advertised prices, which allow a margin for negotiation. 
I note Mr C said he purchased the car two months before the accident for £4,000 and it had 
a tow bar fitted, which Mr C says would cost around £500 to fit to another car. But the terms 
and conditions say any non-standard modifications, which I consider a tow bar to be, arent 
covered under this policy. 
So, Ive considered the trade guides used by this service which vary, as do the advertised 
prices of the same make and model of cars across the country. Having done so, I believe the 
valuation offered by Admiral sufficiently considers Mr Cs cars age, mileage and condition. 
I believe an insurers valuation is fair and reasonable if its within the ranges of the various 
guides we use. And I note the valuation is within the ranges from the trade guides. So, I 
believe this is a fair offer in the circumstances.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im not going to ask Admiral to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman