DRN-2328034
The complaint
Mr and Ms T say Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey National at the time) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Ill just refer to the business as Santander in 
this decision to keep things simple.
What happened
Mr and Ms T took out a mortgage with Santander in 1995. Around the same time, they took 
out a PPI policy to protect their monthly mortgage payments.
Mr and Ms T paid a monthly premium for the PPI policy. The policy covered both Mr and 
Ms T. It would have paid out for up to 36 months per successful claim for accident or 
sickness, and for up to 12 months per successful claim for unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Ms T 
disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Ms Ts case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander hasnt been able to provide copies of any of the paperwork that Mr and Ms T 
signed when they took out the mortgage or the PPI. I dont think thats surprising or 
unreasonable, given how long ago this was.
Mr and Ms T have said that they were told they wouldnt be given the mortgage without 
the PPI. But I cant fairly conclude that Mr and Ms T were told they had to take the PPI, 
based purely on their recollection of a meeting that took place around 25 years ago. 
From what we know about the way these policies were sold at the time, the mortgage 
application would have included equally prominent options to take or decline PPI. And 
Mr and Ms T would have had to complete a separate application form and direct debit 
instruction for the PPI. So Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr and Ms T would have 
realised the PPI was optional. And I think its most likely that they decided to take it, 
knowing that they had a choice  although I can understand how they may no longer 
remember this, so many years later.
Mr and Ms T say Santander advised them to take out the PPI. Santander no longer has 
any record of how the policy was sold. But for the purposes of this decision, Ive 
assumed that advice was given. This is to Mr and Ms Ts advantage, as it means that 
Santander had a responsibility to check that the policy was right for them. But I dont 
think the policy was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of Mr and Ms Ts circumstances 
at the time.
Mr and Ms T have told us theyd both have been entitled to sick pay from their 
employers. But the policy would have paid out for up to 36 months per successful claim 
for accident or sickness. Im satisfied that thats likely to have been significantly longer 
than Mr and Ms T would have been entitled to full sick pay for. And it would have paid 
out for up to 12 months per successful claim for unemployment. Whats more, the policy 
would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr and Ms T received from their 
employers. So they could have used those to meet other expenses.
I acknowledge that Mr and Ms T have told us that they had significant savings when they 
took out the PPI. But Ive borne in mind that theyd chosen to keep hold of their savings, 
rather than taking out a smaller mortgage. And having the PPI would have allowed them 
to continue to protect their savings if either of them had been off sick or lost their job. 
Ive borne in mind that the mortgage was a significant, long-term financial commitment, 
secured on Mr and Ms Ts property, and the consequences of falling behind with their 
monthly mortgage payments could have been serious. So taking everything into account, 
I think the PPI could have been useful for Mr and Ms T.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Ms T about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But Ive explained that I think they took out the PPI, knowing that 
they had a choice. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, Mr and 
Ms T were eligible for the policy. And they dont appear to have been affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover (for example provisions about unusual working 
arrangements or existing medical conditions).
Mr and Ms T have commented that the details of the extra payment for the PPI werent 
made clear. I accept that its possible that the information about the cost of the PPI could 
have been clearer. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr and Ms T couldnt afford the 
PPI. The monthly premiums for the cover would have shown on their bank statements. 
And since they were paying for it monthly, they could have cancelled it at any time 
without further cost if their circumstances changed, or if they decided they no longer 
wanted the cover.
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that Mr and Ms T would have made a 
different decision about taking the PPI out even if theyd been given better information 
about the policy.
Ive taken account of all Mr and Ms Ts comments, including what theyve said about the 
policy having been heavily sold, and having felt pressured into taking it. I accept that its 
likely that Santander recommended the policy to Mr and Ms T, and pointed out the benefits 
of the cover to them. But pressure is another matter, and I cant fairly conclude that Mr and 
Ms T were unfairly pressured into taking out the PPI, based purely on their recollection of a 
conversation that took place so many years ago. As Ive explained, Im satisfied that Mr and 
Ms T would have known that they had a choice about taking out the policy. And I think its 
likely that they decided to take it because they wanted the benefit of the cover it offered.
Finally, Mr and Ms T have commented that there was no mention of any interest on the 
policy. But they paid a monthly premium for the policy. The premiums werent added to their 
mortgage balance. So these points dont change my conclusion.Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Ms T. I realise that they feel strongly that the policy was mis-
sold. But for the reasons Ive set out, I dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman