DRN-2742188
The complaint
Mr W complains that Capital One (Europe) plc failed to make the reasonable adjustments
hed requested. 
What happened
Mr W has told us that hes unhappy that despite making his need for reasonable adjustments 
clear, Capital One have failed to accommodate these.
Hes said that they tried to call him to discuss a payment issue, even though theyre aware
that he doesnt take incoming calls. And when he complained to them about this, they sent
their response in small font, despite him previously making them aware that he requires size
16 font.
They also didnt send him a Financial Ombudsman Service leaflet. He felt disadvantaged by
this, and he also felt it hadnt been included as Capital One felt it was too much trouble to
send and they werent considering his needs.
On 23 April 2020 Capital One tried to call Mr W. They also sent him a text which said, We
have tried to contact you. The text said Mr W should call them back if he needed to speak to 
them.
When Mr W complained about this, Capital One couldnt find evidence that theyd tried to call
him. Mr W had a text showing they had attempted to call him and Capital One later accepted
a call had been made, but said either the call didnt connect, or it wasnt answered.
Mr W has told us that when Capital One call him it makes him anxious, so he asks not to
receive inbound calls as a reasonable adjustment. The information Capital One have sent us
shows theres a note on his account which says, NO OUTBOUND CALLS.
Capital One issued their final response to Mr W, on 14 May 2020 in small print. Their letter
said Please accept our apologies that this response is not in the correct size font. We can
assure you that the special print version in the correct font size is on its way so feel free to
disregard this copy if you wish.
Mr W has told us when he received this letter, he couldnt read it so he couldnt see that it
was telling him hed receive a more suitable letter later. And he didnt receive a second letter
in size 16 font. So, he thought theyd only sent one letter which was distressing for him as it
seemed Capital One werent considering his needs.
Capital One didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint so he complained to our service. Our
investigator considered the case and recommended that his complaint be upheld. She said 
that Capital One had shown us a that a second letter in the correct format was sent to Mr W. 
This was correctly addressed so if it didnt reach him this was outside of Capital Ones 
control. But she still needed to consider the impact receiving this letter had on Mr W.
Shed asked Capital One why they sent two letters to Mr W, rather than just one. They told
her that their systems only allow them to send letters in one format. They use a third-party
supplier to send letters in other formats and they must send the first letter for the system to
request the second letter from their supplier.
They said they could normally stop the first letters going out in the wrong format, but they
werent able to do this because they had limited facilities at the time due to the Covid-19
lockdown. They also confirmed that a Financial Ombudsman Service leaflet wasnt included.
Our investigator said it was unclear why they hadnt sent him the leaflet as it should be
possible to issue this in size 16 font.
While she appreciated that Capital One faced restrictions due to Covid-19, our investigator
said Mr W had made his needs clear and theyre reasonable, so she thought Capital One
couldve done more to accommodate his needs and treat him fairly.
So, she recommended that Capital One pay Mr W £100 in compensation for the distress and
inconvenience hed been caused.
She also recommended that Capital One finds a way to correspond with Mr W in size 16 font
only, to ensure this doesnt continue to happen, and they dont attempt to call him in future.
Mr W didnt accept our investigators opinion, as he feels the £100 compensation she
suggested doesnt properly compensate him for Capital Ones continual failures to meet his
needs.
The case came to me for a decision and I issued my provisional decision on 3 February 
2021. And in it I said: -
It's not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not - that's a matter for the
Courts. Our role is to decide what's fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
In order to decide that however, we have to take a number of things into account, including
relevant law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
So, although it's for the Courts to say whether, or not, Capital One has breached the Equality
Act 2010, we're required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if it's relevant, amongst
other things when deciding what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Mr W had made Capital One aware of his visual impairment and requested an adjustment to
the correspondence they send to him. He asked for all correspondence to be sent in Arial
size 16 font. Capital Ones system notes show that any written correspondence should be
sent to Mr W in large print.
He also made Capital One aware that incoming calls make him anxious, so hed also asked
them not to call him as an adjustment.
It's not in dispute that Capital One tried to call Mr W on 23 April 2020, and when this call
wasnt answered, they sent him a text. Capital One have shown us that Mr Ws account is
clearly marked NO OUTBOUND CALLS.
Theyve told us that the call wasnt answered or didnt connect. But even so, they shouldnt
have been calling him at all, and by doing so they havent accommodated the adjustment
hed requested or followed their own internal system notes.
Capital One have told us that their system only allows letters to be issued in one format, andthey use a third-party supplier to send letters in other formats. But they say they have to
send the first letter for the system to request to second letter from their supplier.
So this letter was sent to Mr W, in a size and font he hed told them he was unable to read,
and it included a message saying the special print version in the correct font size is on its
way so feel free to disregard this copy if you wish.
Capital One dont seem to understand that by sending letters to Mr W, other than in the font
and size hes requested, theyre not providing such correspondence in an accessible format,
so theyre not accommodating the adjustment hes requested.
And while I appreciate that at the time they sent their final response letter to Mr W, they may
have had limited facilities due to the Covid-19 lockdown, I dont think it should have been
beyond their capability to ensure that system generated documentation was blocked from
being sent to Mr W.
And while its unclear why Capital One didnt include a Financial Ombudsman Service
leaflet, I think it should have been possible to send this in size16 font.
To show Mr W that theyve taken his needs seriously Id encourage Capital One to
consider what further steps they could take to try and mitigate any correspondence going to
Mr W which isnt in size 16 Arial font. And to ensure that he doesnt receive any inbound
calls.
Mr W had notified Capital One of the adjustments he requires. I think Capital One shouldve
been able to reasonably accommodate these and they had already made notes on their
internal systems setting out how they should communicate with Mr W, which they didnt
follow.
I don't think Capital One took all the steps they fairly and reasonably should have done to
ensure they complied with Mr W's request to adjust the correspondence they sent to him, so
that it was accessible to him. And they called him even though their system clearly recorded
that he shouldnt receive any inbound calls.
I accept what he's told us about the impact this had on him because of the conditions that he
has. So I'm persuaded that Capital One caused Mr W to suffer considerable and
unnecessary trouble and upset which could have been avoided and for which he should be
compensated.
I also think the upset and frustration he experienced wouldve been exacerbated by Capital
One doing something similar several months before. So, I intend to direct Capital One to pay
Mr W £250 compensation.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr Ws complaint and said Capital One should 
pay him £250 for the trouble and upset hed experienced.
In response to my provisional decision Mr W has told us that hes raised three further 
complaints about how Capital One have dealt with him. Hes received their response to one 
of these complaints and is awaiting a response to the other two. Hes said that he thinks my 
decision should take into account the harm caused to him by Capital Ones ongoing 
behaviour.
 Capital One have said they have no further comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Im considering Mr Ws complaint about the call Capital One made to him in 
April 2020 and the letters they wrote to them regarding this. While Mr W may have 
experienced further problems with Capital One, which hes raised with them, I dont have any 
details of what has happened, and Im not in a position to address them in this decision.
In relation to this complaint I havent changed my opinion that Capital One caused Mr W to 
suffer considerable and unnecessary trouble and upset which could have been avoided and 
for which he should be compensated.
As I said in my provisional decision, going forward, to show Mr W that theyve taken his 
needs seriously, Id encourage Capital One to consider what further steps they could take to 
try and mitigate any correspondence going to Mr W which isnt in size 16 Arial font. And to 
ensure that he doesnt receive any inbound calls.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Ws complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc. And to put things right I require 
them to pay him £250 for the trouble and upset hes experienced.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman