DRN-4238621
The complaint
Mr B complains that the interest rate NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) charges on his credit 
card is too high. 
What happened
Mr B has held a credit card with NewDay since April 2019. In April 2022 it told him it had 
decided to increase the interest rate on his account. The interest rate increased several 
further times over the next few months in line with changes to the Bank of England base 
rate. Mr B complained in December 2022 as he wasnt happy with the rate of interest he was 
being charged. NewDay said it had reviewed his account but it hadnt found any errors. 
Despite that, it decided to refund about £75 in interest and fees as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr B remained unhappy so approached this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. She was satisfied there had been no bank 
error and the rates NewDay had charged were in line with the terms and conditions of his 
account. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view, so his complaint has been referred to me for a 
final decision. He felt NewDay were exploiting vulnerable people by charging unreasonable 
rates of interest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. I realise this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr B but the for the reasons I provide below, I dont think NewDay has treated him unfairly.
Credit card providers are able to vary their terms and conditions, including the interest they 
charge. Interest rate changes can occur for a number of reasons. The card provider might 
undertake a re-pricing exercise, or it might increase its rate following a change in the Bank of 
England base rate.
There are various rules around the circumstances in which a card provider can change the 
interest rate on a credit card account. One of the key requirements is that the card provider 
has to have permission in the credit agreement to make the change. Another is that the 
customer needs to be made aware of the specific circumstances in which the card provider 
might look to exercise its right to change the interest rate. 
So, Ive carefully considered the credit agreement Mr B has with NewDay. The agreement 
says NewDay may make changes to it, including to the interest rates, fees and all other 
terms. It goes on to explain the circumstances where a rate change may be applied, 
including to reflect an actual, or reasonably expected change in our underlying costs and 
where we have good reason to think that you are not making sufficient payments to pay 
your balance down in a reasonable period. So, Im satisfied NewDay informed Mr B when 
and why it might vary the interest rate it charges. 
The credit agreement also says that NewDay would let Mr B know of any planned changes 
at least 30 days before it makes it. This is in line with standard industry guidance, which 
suggests that where an interest rate is increased due to re-pricing, businesses should give 
its customers at least 30 days notice of any increase. It should also tell its customers they 
can opt-out and give them at least 60 days to do that. 
In this case, I can see that NewDay wrote to Mr B in April 2022 to tell him the interest rate it 
was charging would be increased. It explained what it was planning to do and why, and it 
gave Mr B 60 days to opt out. If he chose to opt out, it said it would close his account and he 
could pay off the balance within a reasonable period at the existing rate. 
Ive considered the wording of the letter NewDay sent, and Im satisfied it contains 
everything Id expect to see in it, in accordance with the credit agreement it had with Mr B. 
So, I cant reasonably say that NewDay did anything wrong when it increased the rate on 
Mr Bs account. NewDay was entitled to do that. And while Mr B had the option to either 
repay or refinance the amount he owed, he didnt do that. 
Likewise, NewDay was entitled to increase the interest rate on Mr Bs account in line with 
any increase in the Bank of England base rate. The credit agreement says its rates are 
linked to the Bank of England base rate so, if that rate changes, it will change its rates by the 
same amount. Having seen the statements it sent to Mr B throughout 2022, I can see that 
NewDay notified him each time it did that in accordance with the agreement it had with him. 
So, again, I cant say that NewDay did anything wrong when it increased the interest rate on 
Mr Bs account in these circumstances.
I do acknowledge Mr Bs strength of feeling on this matter. Hes made it clear he believes the 
interest rate NewDay charges on his account is very expensive. But as Ive explained, I cant 
find that it did anything wrong here or treated him unfairly. Ultimately, NewDay are entitled to 
decide the interest rate it charges. That is a commercial decision, and not one this service is 
able to influence. It follows that I wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman