DRN-1231691
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H jointly took out a secured loan, over a term of ten years, with Halifax in 2001. 
Halifax sold them PPI at the same time, the cost of which was paid by monthly premium. The 
PPI covered Mr H for disability and unemployment. It also included life cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs H disagreed, so the 
case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs H suggest they were pressured into taking the PPI. I cant say for sure what 
happened almost 20 years ago. But theyve made a serious allegation and I havent seen 
enough evidence to support what theyve said. 
Halifax needed to make clear to Mr and Mrs H that the PPI was optional and get their 
agreement before adding it. To show that it did, Halifax has provided a copy of Mr and 
Mrs Hs signed loan application form and a copy of their loan agreement. The loan 
application form included a section headed Protecting your payments. It asked the first 
applicant (Mr H) to sign one of two boxes  one to request PPI and the other to decline it. 
Mr H signed the box to request PPI.
The loan agreement, which appears to have been populated using some of the information 
from the application form, included a printed X to indicate they wanted PPI and shows the 
box to decline it as blank. It also set out the monthly PPI premium.
So, overall, I think it likely Mr and Mrs H were aware they were being sold PPI and that they 
knew it was optional. I think they agreed to take it out knowing that was the case. 
I believe Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. So, among other things, it had to 
take steps to make sure its recommendation was right for Mr and Mrs H. I dont know if it did 
that but I think it was right for them in any event. I say that because, for example, Mr H was 
eligible for the PPI. And it doesnt seem hed have been affected by any of the main things 
the PPI excluded or limited cover for.Mr and Mrs H say Mr H was entitled to generous sick pay from his employer for a time and 
also redundancy pay. But the PPI benefits were considerable in that theyd have paid out for 
up to 12 months per claim if Mr H became unemployed. And the policy potentially met the 
loan repayments for up to 60 months per claim if he was too sick or ill to work. While Mr and 
Mrs H say Mrs H received three pensions at the time, I cant say that these amounted to 
enough to conclude they had no need for the PPI if Mr H  who was in full-time employment 
at the time of the sale  wasnt working. 
I note Mr and Mrs H say Mr H had been in stable employment and so had no need for PPI. 
But there was no guarantee their circumstances might not change  or, for example, that he 
might not become too sick or ill to work during the term of the loan.
So, I think Mr and Mrs H still had a need for the PPI, not least because the loan was a long-
term financial commitment secured against their home and the potential consequences of 
them not keeping up with the monthly payments were significant.
Theres no indication that Mr and Mrs H found the monthly premium to be unaffordable. And 
the PPI was flexible enough to allow them to cancel it, at no extra cost, if they decided they 
no longer wanted it.
Halifax also had to give Mr and Mrs H clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
PPI so they could make up their own minds about whether it was right for them. I dont know 
that it did that but, as I say, it appears as though they wanted to take out the cover. And I 
cant, for the same reasons Ive given above, see what other information about the PPI 
would have put them off taking it out.  
Taking everything into account, I dont consider that Mr and Mrs H have lost out because of 
how Halifax sold them the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman