DRN-4340372
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to protect her from losing money to an 
investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, Mrs C has said that through May 2022 to June 2022 she made 13 
payments from her Revolut account ultimately to fund what she thought was a legitimate 
investment with a third party Ill call F. The payments totalled £277,950.
Revolut ultimately didnt reimburse Mrs Cs lost funds, and Mrs C referred her complaint 
about Revolut to us. As our Investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case has 
been passed to me for a decision.
I sent Mrs C and Revolut my provisional decision on 4 August 2023. Now that both parties 
have had an opportunity to reply, Im ready to explain my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as in my provisional decision, and for 
materially the same reasons. Ive explained the reasons for my decision again below, with 
some further comment where I have deemed it appropriate. 
Im really sorry Mrs C lost this money. This was an incredibly large amount of money to lose 
to a scam. Fraud of this type can be deeply upsetting, and she has my heartfelt sympathy. 
However, this doesnt automatically entitle her to a refund from Revolut. It would only be fair 
for me to tell Revolut to reimburse Mrs C some or all of her funds if I thought it reasonably 
ought to have prevented the payments in the first place, or it unreasonably hindered 
recovery of the funds after the payments had been made; and if I was satisfied, overall, that 
this was a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Im sorry as I know Mrs C will be extremely disappointed. Ive thought about this case really 
carefully. Unfortunately for Mrs C, I dont think it would be fair to ask Revolut to reimburse 
her. Ill explain why.
Prevention
Im satisfied Mrs C authorised the relevant payments. Revolut would generally be expected 
to process payments a customer authorises it to make. And under The Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the account, Mrs C is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance, in circumstances where she authorised the payments. That said, as 
a matter of good industry practice Revolut should have taken proactive steps to identify and 
help prevent transactions  particularly sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there are many 
payments made by customers each day and its not realistic or reasonable to expect Revolut 
to stop and check every payment instruction. Theres a balance to be struck between 
identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent, and minimising disruption to 
legitimate payments. 
In this case, Mrs Cs account with Revolut was opened 29 April 2022, just a few days before 
the first payment she made from her Revolut account to the scam. Revolut has said this 
would have made it difficult to detect uncharacteristic payments (given the lack of account 
history); and that Mrs C used the account for, essentially, the sole purpose of making these 
payments, which, it says, tends to be the way this type of account is used. However, I dont 
think this absolves Revolut of its obligations to appropriately intervene in the scam 
payments. Here, on 3 May 2022, over the space of just two hours, Mrs C instructed Revolut 
to make three payments totalling £97,000, an incredibly large amount of money, and the first 
payment alone was for £34,000. Revolut didnt have a material account history to compare 
this to, but it really ought to have realised such a payment from a newly opened account 
reasonably warranted intervention from Revolut before it allowed it through.
Revolut has said that the first payment instruction was flagged based on the risk level; and 
that the transaction was held in pending and Mrs C received a push-up notification that set 
off a series of questions and messages for Mrs C to read and answer. Ive taken on board 
everything Revolut has said about this. However, I think Revolut ought to know that such 
warnings arent always sufficient for it to meet its obligations, and that in a situation like this it 
really ought to have called and spoken to Mrs C before allowing the payment through.
In my view, the key issue in this case is whether or not Mrs C would most likely have been 
open with Revolut if it did intervene appropriately by calling her, as I think it should have. I 
say this because, given what Mrs C has now said and submitted about F and how she was 
scammed, Im satisfied that if Revolut had been able to obtain the real context behind 
Mrs Cs payments at the time, it most likely would have been able to prevent Mrs Cs further 
payments to the scam, or at the very least give Mrs C the sternest warning possible that she 
was being scammed and should stop making the payments. This is because Revolut would, 
or ought to, have been well aware of scams like this where the customer is asked by the 
scammers to first transfer money to crypto accounts in the customers own name before, 
only then, transferring the cryptocurrency onto the scammers from there. F had clear signs 
of being a scam that I wouldnt have expected Revolut to miss. However, if Mrs C wasnt 
upfront with Revolut about the real reason for her payments, Revoluts ability to warn Mrs C, 
and make a difference, would have been limited.
In this regard, I am mindful, that at the same time as deciding this case, Ive decided another 
complaint brought by Mrs C about another bank (Nationwide) through which she sent 
payments to the same scam. On this other case, Nationwide did intervene in some of 
Mrs Cs payments on 3 May 2022 (which happens to be the same date as Mrs Cs first 
payments to the scam from her Revolut account). Mrs C will be aware, from my final 
decision on her complaint about Nationwide, why Im satisfied she was intent on the call not 
to be upfront with Nationwide, and she did so in a way that was convincing. I havent seen anything that persuades me Mrs C is likely to have reacted materially 
differently if Revolut had intervened  either on 3 May 2022, or later. I can see from the 
evidence submitted on the Nationwide case that Mrs C appears to have been contacted by 
recovery scammers on 4 May 2022 (just one day after her first three payments from her 
Revolut account). But I am mindful that the evidence Ive seen around the recovery scam 
indicates it had a certain undercover flavour to it (for example, that a judge would be paid). I 
also note that none of the payments from Revolut were made as a result of the recovery 
scam, but instead all went to F. Furthermore, I note that even after Mrs C ceased payments 
to the recovery scam from her Nationwide account, she continued the payments to F, not 
only from her Nationwide account but also from her Revolut account, including after she told 
Revolut on 5 June 2022 that she thought she had been scammed. 
Ive thought about the fact Mrs C told Revolut on 5 June 2022 that she thought shed been 
scammed. But when Revolut asked her for more information about this, she didnt reply. 
Mrs C has said this is because she was unsure, and she was then persuaded by F again 
that things were legitimate. Whilst Revolut did allow further payments to then leave her 
account, it had already asked Mrs C for further information (to which Mrs C hadnt replied), 
and I dont think its unreasonable for it to have presumed Mrs C would get back in touch and 
wouldnt make further payments if she thought shed been scammed. 
I have to be fair. And on the evidence before me, Im not persuaded any reasonable level of 
intervention from Revolut at any stage is likely to have made a difference here. Given how 
Mrs C reacted to Nationwides intervention call, I think its most likely she would have 
sufficiently reassured Revolut about the nature of her payments, such that it wouldnt be fair 
and reasonable to say Revolut ought to then have done more. The evidence suggests its 
more likely than not that Mrs C was intent on making the payments and not being open 
about her reasons, and that she likely would have done so anyway. However, for the sake of 
completeness, even if I thought Revolut had unreasonably missed an opportunity to prevent 
the payments, I think Mrs C acted with such lack of care in not being open with Nationwide 
and continuing to make the payments as Ive described above, that, even then, it would not 
have been fair, in this case, to ask Revolut to reimburse her. 
Recovery
The scam payments were sent from Revolut to crypto accounts in Mrs Cs name, from where 
she then moved the funds onto the scammers. I dont think its surprising Revolut was 
unable to recover the funds in these circumstances. And Im satisfied I cant say Revolut 
unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds, nor therefore that it can be held responsible 
for Mrs C not being able to recover the funds.
I realise this means Mrs C is out of pocket, and Im really very sorry shes lost money. 
However, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think I can reasonably tell Revolut to 
reimburse her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman