DRN-3199879
The complaint
Mr D complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Advantage, I include the intermediary and others insofar as I hold 
Advantage responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mr D needs a four-wheel drive vehicle to get from his home to the highway. 
The subject matter of his claim and his complaint is a four-wheel drive vehicle first registered 
in 2003. Mr D acquired the vehicle in 2019.
For the year from October 2020, Mr D had the vehicle insured on a policy branded with the 
name of an insurance intermediary. Advantage was the insurance company responsible for 
dealing with claims.
In icy conditions on 17 January 2021, there was a collision between a bus and Mr Ds 
vehicle. Advantage later said the vehicle was beyond economic repair. 
Mr D complained to Advantage that it was under-valuing his vehicle. By a final response 
dated early April 2021, Advantage increased its valuation to £2,103.00. Mr D brought his 
complaint to us in late April 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
thought that Advantage acted fairly. The investigator said a Cazana valuation of £3,382.00 
might not be for the right date.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Valuation tools are known to be increasingly inaccurate when there are very few 
examples of the exact same model and spec coming onto the market. The reason for 
this is that Glasses and others use a set of algorithms, however when very few 
examples are available the algorithm uses the next closest thing so for example if no 
data is available for petrol models then diesel models are substituted. 
Unlike the diesel model, his low- mileage petrol version in good condition was highly 
sought-after, hence the fact that very few were for sale and priced around £4,000.00.
He provided examples of the same model with the same engine as his.
Cazana could and would provide a valuation for the car as of the date the claim was 
made.
The valuations were closer to £4,000.00 and as such the valuation of £2,000.00 is 
significantly and disproportionately out of line with the its true value.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against an insurance 
company or other regulated financial firm. Where its a complaint about a claim under an 
insurance policy, we treat it as a complaint against the insurance company that was 
responsible for dealing with that claim.
We expect insurance companies to assess market value of vehicles by looking at retail 
prices in the trade guides. We consider that the guides are good evidence of the likely price 
at which a vehicle will change hands. The guides take into account all aspects of supply and 
demand in assessing a price.
We consider that the trade guides are usually better evidence than advertisements, which 
contain asking prices that may be negotiated downwards.
Ive noted the make, model, specification, age, low mileage, and good condition of Mr Ds 
vehicle. I accept that very few remain on the road  and even fewer come on the market. 
When he insured the vehicle in October 2020, the policy schedule stated a value of 
£3,000.00. I find it likely that this figure came from Mr D. But the policy covered the vehicle 
up to its market value at the time of any loss.
I accept that Advantage found trade guide figures for a vehicle like Mr Ds as follows:
Glasss £1,980.00
CAP £2,103.00 
The average of those figures is £2,042.00. 
By its final response, Advantage offered to increase its valuation to the higher figure of 
£2,103.00.
Our investigator found the following valuation:
Cazana £3,382.00
But I consider that the figures from Glasss and CAP are more contemporaneous with the 
date of the loss in January 2021. And the figures from Glasss and CAP are within a narrow 
range of each other. So I place more weight on the figures from Glasss and CAP than on 
the figure from Cazana.
Mr D considers that his vehicle was worth more. I accept that he couldnt find any vehicles 
for sale that exactly matched his. And he provided evidence of petrol- engined examples 
offered for sale at prices much higher than £2,103.00. But that evidence is of asking prices 
rather than actual selling prices. So I dont consider that Mr D has shown that the figures 
from Glasss and CAP were too low.
In any event, Advantages final valuation of £2,103.00 was the higher of the figures from 
Glasss and CAP.  So I dont find that the valuation of £2,103.00 was unfair or unreasonable. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to increase its valuation or to do any 
more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman