DRN-1715087
The complaint
Mr N has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr N took out the PPI in 2004 at the same time as applying for the credit card by post. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr N disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr N says he was told that he had to have the PPI as part of getting the credit card. Ive 
seen a copy of Mr Ns application form. Its clearly a postal application form, so there would 
have been no input from RBS staff at the time that Mr N was completing the form. There is a 
separate section for PPI and Mr N has ticked the box in that section to request PPI. I think 
that Mr N would have known from the wording and layout of the form that the PPI was 
optional. It seems to me that he decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to.
As it was a non-advised sale, RBS didnt have to ensure that that the policy met Mr Ns 
needs. But it did need to provide enough information for Mr N to make an informed choice 
about whether or not the policy was right for him.
Mr Ns employer would have given him between three and six months pay if he was off work 
sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mr 
N would have received full pay for. And Mr N didnt have any other means, such as savings, 
to fall back on. So I think he had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it at 
what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that RBS didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr N wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I think that Mr N had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused him to change his mind.
This means that RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N. But RBS 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr N because: 
When the policy was sold, RBS expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr N about that. 
Because RBS didnt tell Mr N, that was unfair.  
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr N any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman