DRN-3762984
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Skrill Limited cant find a balance that was transferred to one of their 
accounts.
What happened
Mr J used Skrills service with the intention of sending £585.90 to his family who reside 
overseas. The money left Mr Js bank account, but Skrill have no record of it ever being 
received by them, and so didnt complete the transaction as instructed. Mr J wasnt happy 
about this, so he raised a complaint.
Skrill looked at Mr Js complaint. They reiterated that they had no record of receiving the 
£585.90 from Mr Js account, and so they didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly by managing 
the situation as they had. Mr J wasnt satisfied with Skrills response, so he referred his 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that Mr J had asked his bank 
to trace the payment at Skrills request, and that this trace had confirmed that the payment 
had been received by Skrill. So, our investigator upheld this complaint in Mr Js favour and 
said that Skrill should reimburse the £585.90 to Mr J along with a further £100 for the trouble 
and upset hed incurred surrounding this matter.
Skrill didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J engaged with Skrill to transfer £585.90 from his UK bank account to his family overseas 
and has provided a statement for his UK bank account which clearly shows the amount of 
£585.90 being debited from his account. But Skrill said they had no record of ever receiving 
these funds and asked Mr J to ask his UK bank to trace the transferred balance. 
Mr Js UK bank did trace the transferred amount of £585.90, and the result of this trace was 
that Mr Js UK bank confirmed that the amount had been successfully credited to a bank 
account held in the name of Skrill UK. And information relating to this trace has been 
provided to Skrill by Mr J.
But despite receiving this information, Skrill still refused to reimburse Mr J the £585.90 that 
was essentially missing at that time. This doesnt seem fair to me, and so Ill be upholding 
this complaint in Mr Js favour and instructing Skrill to return the £585.90 to Mr J within 28 
days from the date of this letter.
Additionally, Ill also be instructing Skrill to make a further payment of £100 to Mr J to as 
compensation for the trouble and upset Im satisfied that Mr J has unreasonably incurred 
here as a result of Skrill failing to reimburse to missing payment amount to him.
Skrill may maintain that they have no record of the payment being received by them. This 
may be so, but given the result of the payment trace as described above, I feel that this is a 
problem for Skrill to resolve themselves, and shouldnt be passed on to Mr J. 
Putting things right
Skrill must make a payment of £585.90 to Mr J as a reimbursement of the missing transfer 
amount.
Skrill must also make a further payment of £100 to Mr J as compensation for the trouble and 
upset Mr J has incurred here.
These payments must be made to Mr J within 28 days of the date of this letter. 
If the above payments are not made within 28 days of the date of this letter, the combined 
payment amount of £685.90 will be payable along with simple interest at 8%, which must be 
calculated from the date of this letter to the date the payments are made to Mr J by Skrill.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Skrill Limited on the basis explained 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman