DRN-2424145
The complaint
Miss T complains about a Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) agreement provided by 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS).
Miss T says she was pressured into taking the finance rather than paying for the car outright 
and wasnt aware this would cost her more. She also says MBFS didnt respond to her when 
she enquired about paying off the finance which meant she had to pay additional interest.
What happened
In June 2018 Miss T acquired a used car. The car had done around 4,500 miles and was 
around eight months old. It cost £31,989 and Miss T paid a £4,000 deposit. The rest of the 
balance was covered by a PCP agreement provided by MBFS. The agreement had 
repayments of £423.51 a month over 48 months, with a balloon payment of £13,325 if 
Miss T wanted to keep the car at the end of the term.
Miss T says she later realised that the PCP agreement had been mis sold to her. She says 
she was pressured and strongly encouraged to take out the finance when she had the funds 
to pay for the car outright. She says she didnt know she would pay more for the car because 
she took the finance. She says the dealer told her she would be better off taking the finance 
and she would profit from it. And she says she thought she wouldnt have to pay more if she 
decided to pay off the finance early than if she paid for the car upfront.
Miss T also says when she tried to contact MBFS to repay her agreement around April 2020 
she didnt get a response from it despite chasing several times. She thinks MBFS should pay 
back any interest from this period.
Miss T complained to MBFS and it issued its final response in June 2020. It explained it was 
not upholding the complaint. It drew Miss Ts attention to the terms and conditions she 
signed and said this made it clear what she would have to pay if she settled the agreement 
early.  It also said it could see Miss T attempted to contact it several times in April, May and 
June 2020. It explained it was experiencing a vast amount of contact at the time from 
customers due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Miss T was unhappy with this response and said MBFS hadnt addressed her main point 
which was that she was encouraged to take out finance rather than paying for the car 
upfront. She then brought the complaint to our service.
In July 2020 it was confirmed the agreement had been settled and Miss T now owned the 
car. 
Our investigator issued their opinion and explained they werent upholding Miss Ts 
complaint. They said, in summary, that they thought Miss T wouldve been aware of the 
details of the finance agreement including the interest. They said they didnt think shed been 
pressured into taking the agreement. And they explained that while there was a delay in 
MBFS responding to Miss Ts contact, she didnt initially ask to repay the agreement  she 
asked for a reduction in interest rate. Our investigator thought that this was unlikely to have 
been approved  so even though she said there was a delay, they didnt think this impacted 
Miss T. 
Miss T was unhappy with this. She reiterated that she was induced into taking the finance. 
And said she told the dealer she had a budget of £30,000 and was told she would get money 
back by taking out the PCP. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Miss T has raised an issue about the quality of the car supplied under the agreement. This is 
the subject of another case at this service and I will not comment on this in my decision.
Miss T complains about a PCP agreement. Providing and administering consumer credit 
contracts such as this is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can consider Miss Ts 
complaint about MBFS.
When considering what I think is fair and reasonable, I have regard for relevant law and 
regulations. Part of Miss Ts complaint is about what she was told by the dealer before 
entering into the contract. This means section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is 
relevant here. This explains, under certain circumstances that finance providers are 
responsible for what is said by a credit broker before a credit agreement is entered into. 
In this case, the dealer brokered the credit between Miss T and MBFS. So, MBFS are 
responsible for what the dealer said.
I think there are two main complaint points to consider here  so Ill think about each of these 
in turn.
Did anything go wrong when the credit agreement was brokered?
I need to decide if Miss T was pressured or given incorrect information about the credit 
agreement before she entered into it.
Miss T says she was given the impression that she would profit from taking out the PCP 
agreement rather than paying for the car outright. She says she was told she would be better 
off taking the finance agreement. But, having thought about this, I dont think its likely this 
was the case.
I should point out that, generally speaking, buying something on credit may cost more than 
buying it outright, because interest may be added. Looking at Miss Ts credit agreement that 
she signed, I can see that the rate of interest, the APR, the total cost of the credit and the total amount payable is set out. So, I think Miss T wouldve understood interest was due to 
be charged on the agreement when she took it.
Miss T provided an email chain that she says made it sound like PCP was the better option 
to go for rather than paying for the car outright. But, having reviewed this, I dont agree this is 
the case. The dealer doesnt recommend Miss T takes out the PCP here and doesnt 
comment on whether one option is better than the other. Miss T also doesnt ask for any 
guidance on this. She does ask if the dealer could do a better price for the car if she paid up 
front, but the dealer says it wont make a difference. 
I can see on another email chain with the dealer that Miss T says I also thinking, it does 
work out much much more dearer to do a financing as apposed to owning outright (sic). 
The dealer responded If you choose to pay the optional purchase payment and £10 
activation fee to therefore own the car and (sic) the end of the term you will then have paid 
more than cash price because interest has been factored in.
Ive thought very carefully about this. Ive considered everything Miss T has said. But, I dont 
think its most likely Miss T was told she would be better off taking the PCP rather than 
paying for the car outright or that she would profit from taking out the finance agreement. It 
follows I dont think its most likely the dealer gave Miss T incorrect information about the 
finance.
Miss T also says she was pressured into taking out the finance agreement.
Thinking about the timescales here, I can see Miss T was emailing the dealer about options 
for the finance around 17 May 2018. On contact notes provided by MBFS, on 20 May 2018 it 
says Test drove, likes car and fully understands finance. Wanted to run through figures with 
family before committing. Miss T signed the credit agreement on 4 June 2018, which was 
18 days later. So, it appears Miss T had a reasonable amount of time to consider her 
options.
Having reviewed the emails between Miss T and the dealer I can see she mentions having 
seen lower interest rates elsewhere, so it appears she was looking at other options to 
finance the agreement at this point. She also discusses different options for the finance over 
different terms.
I can also see in the email chain that Miss T raises a concern about some damage that she 
was worried about being charged for when the car was inspected at the end of the 
agreement. So, it appears at this point Miss T was considering using the option with the PCP 
of handing the car back at some point rather than taking ownership of it.
Thinking about everything here, I dont think its most likely Miss T was pressured into taking 
out the finance.
I also appreciate Miss T said she was given information and advice about the PCP over the 
phone with the dealer. Its been confirmed that call recordings of these conversations are not 
available. Ive thought very carefully about this. But, given the lack of evidence here, on 
balance I havent seen enough to make me think Miss T was told over the phone that it 
would cost less to take the PCP rather than buying the car outright, or was pressured or 
misled on the phone about the finance.
Ive also considered that Miss T says she told the dealer her maximum budget was £30,000 
for the car and that she wouldnt cover many miles. But, thinking about this, I think it was 
made clear to Miss T what the price of the car was. And I can see on the credit agreement she signed that there was an annual mileage allowance of 10,000 a year. So, I dont think 
Miss T was misled here.
Did MBFS act reasonably when Miss T contacted it?
Ive reviewed the emails between Miss T and MBFS.
I can see Miss T emailed MBFS on 17 April 2020. She asks if her interest rate could be 
reduced on a permanent basis as her payments are higher than other providers. And she 
asks if MBFS are offering any concessions on car finance as she says she isnt using the 
car. I should point out that Miss T doesnt mention she is in any financial difficulty. She also 
doesnt mention anything about repaying the agreement early. 
Miss T chased MBFS but it didnt reply until 24 April 2020. MBFS explained in order to 
review Miss Ts request it needs various bits of information from her, including her full name, 
her phone number, the agreement number or registration number and details of any financial 
difficulty Miss T was experiencing. MBFS said it would be in touch within ten working days. 
Miss T replied the same day, but she only gave her mobile number and none of the other 
information requested.
Miss T chased MBFS on 5 and 7 May 2020 but didnt get a response. On 20 May 2020, she 
emailed again and asked to speak to someone about her options to pay off the finance. 
Miss T chased this on 26 May 2020 and 2 June 2020. MBFS responded on 10 June 2020 
and explained Miss T could either pay off the agreement online or call it to discuss. Miss T 
was given a settlement figure later in June 2020. 
Ive thought very carefully about this. I understand Miss T says she should be refunded any 
interest from April 2020 until she repaid the agreement. But, I have to consider that she 
didnt ask to repay the agreement in April and this wasnt raised until later.
The timescale between Miss T asking for information about how to repay the agreement and 
MBFS sending her the link and phone number to do so was three weeks. I do think this 
timescale is longer than Miss T couldve expected. 
I have considered the overall service MBFS provided here. MBFS took longer than I would 
expect, under normal circumstances, to respond to Miss T in April. But I also do need to take 
into account that Miss T didnt reply to MBFS with the details it requested. So, I can see why 
there was an issue with it looking into things further for her. But, that being said, I ideally 
think it shouldve contacted Miss T to explain she hadnt given it enough details. And, I dont 
think its reasonable that the next contact MBFS had with Miss T was some time later, 
despite it being chased.
Ive thought very carefully about whether MBFS needs to do anything to put these issues 
right. But, I need to consider that at this time the country was in a national lockdown due to 
COVID-19. This had a knock on effect to businesses, including MBFS, who were dealing 
with an unprecedented situation. So, while I think the service fell below what I would expect, 
given the circumstances and thinking about the wider picture I dont think MBFS needs to 
take any further action here.
Finally, I have considered if Miss T has lost out because of the initial delay in MBFS 
responding to her. But, I dont she has. I say this as Miss T asked for a permanent reduction 
to her interest rate as she thought it was too expensive. And she asked if any concessions 
could be made as she wasnt using the car. While Miss T does mention financial uncertainty, 
she doesnt say shes in financial difficulty. And, Im satisfied this likely wasnt the case, 
given a short time later she paid off the finance outright.Thinking about all of this, Im satisfied on balance even if it had responded in a timelier 
manner its very unlikely MBFS wouldve agreed to a reduction in interest rate or any 
concessions given Miss Ts circumstances. So, it follows Im satisfied its likely Miss T 
hasnt lost out as a result of this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman