DRN-4047633
The complaint
Miss M complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund her for a payment 
made on her card.
What happened
Miss M was overseas, on holiday, and a card payment was made in the same country. 
Miss M contacted Halifax to dispute the payment.
Miss M told Halifax she didnt recognise the payment. Halifax investigated but wouldnt 
refund the payment.
Miss M complained and Halifax responded to say the payment had been made using the 
chip on Miss Ms card as well as the personal identification number (PIN).
Miss M had told Halifax she still had the card and never recorded or shared her PIN, so 
Halifax said the payment couldnt be fraudulent. And since Miss M said she hadnt made the 
payment, she couldnt charge it back.
Halifax said to chargeback Miss M would need to say more about what service she was 
expecting and why it wasnt what shed paid for. Halifax said Miss M should contact the hotel 
to dispute the payment, it appeared to be a payment to a tourist company.
Unhappy with this answer Miss M brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and didnt think Miss Ms complaint should be upheld.
The investigator couldnt see how someone else had been able to use Miss Ms card and 
PIN. The investigator thought it was reasonable for Halifax to hold Miss M liable.
Miss M didnt accept this outcome. Miss M then contacted the investigator and said she did 
recognise the transaction after all. Miss M said shed paid for an excursion and this had been 
cancelled. Miss M hadnt been refunded and wanted Halifax to chargeback for this reason.
Miss M asked an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since Miss M has said she made the payment, Im only going to focus on whether Halifax 
should raise a chargeback for the transaction in question.
Miss M says she paid for a service, which was cancelled, and she didnt receive a refund.
A chargeback isnt a guaranteed refund for when card payments go wrong, its a set of rules 
laid down by the card schemes that may allow Miss M to dispute a payment.
One of the rules of chargebacks is they must be made within 120 days of the date of the 
transaction. Miss M carried out the transaction on 10 August 2022. This means Miss M 
needed to dispute the payment, as one shed made, before the end of November 2022.
Miss M initially told Halifax she hadnt carried out the transaction. When Halifax sent its final 
response, in early September 2022, it said Miss M should speak to the hotel about the 
payment to see if its something shed recognise.
It doesnt appear Miss M did this. And it wasnt until March 2023 when Miss M told our 
investigator she now recognised the payment and it was for something she could, 
potentially, raise a chargeback for.
I wouldnt expect Halifax to raise a chargeback sooner than March 2023, it had no 
information about the payment or what the dispute was, and Miss M had told it she didnt 
make the payment. But Halifax had tried to get Miss M to dispute things with the retailer.
Halifax would need to know whether the excursion went ahead, and whether this was a 
complaint about the quality, or, as Miss M says, it didnt go ahead and she wasnt refunded. 
Without this information, Halifax couldnt raise a chargeback sooner.
The investigator asked Halifax if it could raise a chargeback in March 2023 and was told it 
was too late because the payment had been made more than 120 days prior.
I also think March 2023 was too late for Miss M to raise a chargeback. And without further 
information, I dont think Halifax was wrong to refuse to raise one when Miss M first 
contacted it.
In the circumstances, I dont think Halifax needs to refund this payment, although Miss M 
should still be able to dispute it directly with the retailer.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman