DRN-3379465
The complaint
Mr H complains that Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ), trading as Agria Frskring, 
unfairly declined a claim for vet costs on his pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H took out a pet insurance policy in early 2021. When he took his pet to the vet in 
February 2021 Mr H said it was sleeping more but the pet was getting older. Mr H wasnt 
aware of any medical issues but the vet said it might be starting to develop arthritis and 
suggested Mr H consider joint supplements for his pet. 
During a check-up in October 2021 the vet said they suspected Mr Hs pet had arthritis in his 
hips. Mr H contacted Agria but his claim was rejected as the insurer felt the condition was 
pre-existing. Mr H said the pet had a clean bill of health beforehand and he wants Agria to 
accept his claim. 
Agria said Mr H had taken out a lifetime pet insurance policy in January 2021. Itd 
considered Mr Hs claim in October for arthritis treatment but had declined the claim. The 
medical history confirmed the pet had shown signs and symptoms of arthritis before the 
policy was in place. And the pet insurance policy excluded claims for pre-existing illness or 
injury. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Agrias response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. She looked at whether Mr Hs pet had, or shown signs of, an illness 
before the policy started. And she could see during a visit in February 2021 that Mr H had 
mentioned to the vet his pet was sleeping more than he used to. The vet noted on the 
medical history that the pet hadnt been as active in the past year and was getting stiffer with 
age. 
Although the pet didnt diagnosed arthritis until later in the year, it was showing signs of the 
illness. And our investigator explained it was fair to say itd been showing signs of arthritis for 
some time  even if Mr H wasnt aware. Our investigator was satisfied the signs began to 
show before the policy started. And so she couldnt say Agria had acted unfairly in declining 
the claim for a pre-existing illness. And she wouldnt be asking it to take any further action. 
Mr H didnt agree with our investigator. He felt Agria had used the pre-existing clause 
unfairly. When he visited the pet in February 2021 his pet wasnt walking stiffly. It was just 
sleeping more due to getting older. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I know this will be 
disappointing to Mr H, but Ill explain why.
During a visit to the vet in February 2021 Mr H mentioned his pet was sleeping more than 
usual. The vet noted on the pets medical history that it hadnt been as active in the past year 
and might be developing arthritis. Mr Hs complaint is about whether the conditions noted by 
Agria before the policy was taken out in January 2021 were pre-existing or not. This is 
because, like most pet insurance policies, cover isnt provided for the cost of any treatment 
thats related to something that existed before the policy started.
Agria has explained the claim was declined due a pre-existing condition. The policy 
document says cover isnt provided for any injury that happened, or an illness or behavioural 
disorder that first showed clinical signs before your policy started.
Mr H thinks its unreasonable for Agria to say his pets condition was pre-existing when it 
hadnt been diagnosed until after hed taken out the policy. He felt his pet was in good health 
and was just sleeping more because it was getting older. Mr H feels hed answered all of the 
questions honestly when he took out the policy. He wasnt aware of any pre-existing 
problems. 
I realise the diagnosis for arthritis in the pets hip didnt take place until October 2021  after 
the pet insurance policy had been taken out. But after Mr H had said the pet had been 
sleeping more for the last year or so, the vet had noted on the pets medical history that it 
was getting stiffer with age, suggested it might be beginning to suffer from arthritis, and 
recommended Mr H consider joint supplements for his pet.
I accept that Mr H completed his application to the best of his knowledge. He felt his pet had 
a clean bill of health and no illness had been diagnosed during previous visits to the vet. But 
the policy says a pre-existing condition doesnt have to be diagnosed  only that the clinical 
signs had begun to show before the policy started. 
I think its fair to say the pets medical history shows the vet noted clinical signs that 
suggested the pet might be suffering from arthritis before the policy started. The first signs 
were noted as having begun in the year leading up to Mr H taking out the pet insurance 
policy. As the policy excludes claims for any illness that first showed clinical signs before the 
policy started I cant say Agria has unfairly turned down the claim.
I realise this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for. And I do recognise the upset this will 
have caused Mr H. Agria has a responsibility to assess each claim it receives in line with the 
terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy. And on this occasion I think its done so 
fairly. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied there was a pre-existing condition that Agria can 
rely on to decline Mr Hs claim. So I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman