DRN-3195353
The complaint
Mr C complains about a secured loan that he and his late wife took out with their original
lender. The loan has since been passed to Elderbridge Limited.
He complains, in summary, that:
The loan was mis-sold and fraudulently provided
He and his late wife have paid back more than originally agreed and the Payment 
Protection Plan (PPP) taken with the loan should have repaid half the debt in the first 
five years.
Elderbridge failed to comply with a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR)
Elderbridge has treated him unfairly in the management of the loan and has issued 
threatening demands for payment  including trying to force the sale of the family 
home
Mr C says the loan should have been paid off by now and would like the outstanding balance
written off.
What happened
In 2006, through a broker, Mr C (along with his late wife Mrs C) took out a secured loan of
around £56,000. That sum included the cost of a Payment Protection Plan (PPP). In 2016,
the loan was sold to Elderbridge  who has administered the account since.
The loan has been in arrears over the years and no payments have been made since 2018.
In 2017, Mr C raised a complaint with Elderbridge. He said that the full amount of the loan
had been repaid and that since Elderbridge took over the loan, it has been unfairly
demanding payments, which Mr C disputes he owes. He also complained that his Data
Subject Access Request (DSAR) was not complied with. As Elderbridge didnt respond to
the complaint within the eight-week timeframe, he referred the matter to this service.
Elderbridge then replied to the complaint in its final response letter of 28 August 2017 and
later response in 17 January 2019. It said this service is unable to consider a complaint 
about the sale of the loan or how it was set up, as it has been made out of time.
Our investigator thought that the complaint about the sale of the loan had been brought too 
late under the relevant timeframes. He also considered the part of the complaint he thought 
this service could consider but ultimately didnt think this should be upheld.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He still thought he has been treated very 
unfairly and that the loan was fraudulently provided. The matter was passed to me to decide 
on jurisdiction first. 
I recently issued a jurisdiction decision on 24 November 2021 in which I set out that this 
service is unable to consider a complaint about the sale of the loan as it has been made too 
late. Whilst Mr C has recently provided further submissions in relation to this, Im afraid we 
are still unable to consider this part of the complaint as it falls outside of the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. As a result, I wont comment on this part of the complaint 
further. 
However, I determined that the complaint made about the customer service provided around 
the DSAR and Elderbrigdes recent treatment of Mr C in relation to the loan and pursuit of 
payments is something this service can consider. 
Our investigator considered these parts in their original view but didnt think they should be 
upheld. As Mr C disagreed, the matter has been passed to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DSAR request
Ive considered the information provided regarding the DSAR request. Mr Cs solicitors 
initially made the request in 2017 and Elderbridge say that it was unable to authorise it as 
the signatures provided didnt match those on file. It asked for further identification 
documents. 
Its unclear why the further information was not provided at the time and I can see that 
Mr Cs new solicitors again requested the data in 2018. Elderbridge said it still had concerns 
over the signatures provided and was reluctant to provide the data to a third party. But later 
in 2018 Elderbridge agreed to accept Mr Cs consent over the phone to progress the DSAR. 
Mr C has said that the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) found against Elderbridge 
and I can see the information requested has now been provided, I think it was fair for 
Elderbridge to repay the £10 submitted for the request. 
In recognition of the dispute, Elderbridge also recalculated the account as if interest had 
stopped being charged from May 2017  reducing the balance by around £11,450. 
Considering everything, I think this is fair and so I wont be asking it to do anything further 
here. 
Elderbrige pursuing Mr C for the loan 
Mr C has raised concerns about Elderbridge and says hes been treated unfairly as it was 
chasing him for payments and that it threatened to force the sale of his home. He stopped 
making payments in 2018 due to the issues he had with Elderbridge about his DSAR 
request. 
I can appreciate that this has been a difficult time for Mr C. Ive considered the contact notes 
carefully and can see that Mr C and Elderbridge were regularly in touch about the monthly 
payments to the loan and plans to clear the arrears on the account. I can see that payment 
arrangements were previously agreed for periods of time before Mr C says he took over 
dealing with Elderbridge around October 2016. Since then payments have been missed or 
made  but for less than the full monthly amount owed. 
I can see from the notes that Elderbridge has tried to engage with Mr C to complete an 
income and expenditure assessment in order to see how much he could repay to the loan. 
This is in line with what I would expect when a borrowers loan is in arrears and payments 
have been missed.  And Im mindful that, despite the arrears on the account, Elderbridge 
has not yet taken the matter to court or obtained a possession order. As Ive previously mentioned, Elderbridge recalculated the account as if interest had stopped 
being charged from May 2017. And Elderbridge has also confirmed to our investigator that, 
as a further act of forbearance it has arranged for the interest rate on the loan to be 
amended to 0% to assist Mr C. 
I consider these measures to be appropriate forms of forbearance in the circumstances and 
so I wont be asking Elderbridge to do anything further here. Id encourage both Elderbridge 
and Mr C to keep an open dialogue about payments to the loan going forwards. 
Mr C has suggested that it was not him that originally wanted to take out the loan. Whilst I 
understand that the loan may have been taken to repay the late Mrs Cs debts, as Mr C also 
agreed to the loan  he is jointly and severally liable which means that Elderbridge can 
pursue him for the amount outstanding. 
I see why Mr C is frustrated and looked to Elderbridge to do more. But having reviewed all 
the information, Im satisfied that it took reasonable steps to help him in his financial 
difficulty. I understand that this will be disappointing for Mr C but for the reasons Ive given, I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Id remind Elderbridge that it should continue to treat Mr C fairly in pursuing the outstanding 
sum.
Conclusions
Its clear that Mr C has been through a difficult time and I do sympathise with his situation. 
But having looked at everything thats happened, I dont think that Elderbridge has treated 
him unfairly. 
Moving forwards, Mr C will need to engage with Elderbridge about a realistic and affordable 
way he can repay the loan and arrears. And Id expect Elderbridge to seriously consider any 
proposals put to them before taking further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman