DRN-3682183
The complaint
Mr G complains that Transunion International UK Limited (Transunion) failed to correctly 
update his credit report with his electoral register information, causing him to miss out on 
lower interest rate credit deals.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr G moved from his previous address (address A) to his current 
address (address B). The two addresses were controlled by different local authority 
councils which for the purposes of this decision Ill refer to as A and B respectively.
During 2021 Mr G says he made credit applications he was turned down for. Upon 
speaking to his bank, he became aware his credit score was low. He checked this with 
Transunion and another credit reference agency (CRA), his Transunion score was 
considerably lower, and he noticed they were reporting incorrect electoral register 
information for him.
Mr G contacted Transunion about this in December 2021, they told him the local authorities 
were responsible for providing them with information about the electoral register. And in his 
case Council A had removed him from address A in their records in March 2021, but 
Council B had not added him to their records at address B until December 2021.
Mr G made attempts to dispute this and complained to Transunion but had trouble getting a 
response from them. He wrote to the executives of the business both here and in the USA 
to prompt a response. Eventually one of these emails was passed to the customer relations 
team, who responded to Mr G. Included in Mr Gs complaint was the recording of an 
incorrect missed payment showing on his credit file, and Transunions lack of 
communication.
In their response Transunion offered Mr G £50 for poor service in relation to 
communication on the phone. They confirmed they had updated the incorrect missed 
payment. And said the electoral register information had been updated and was 
correct.They maintained they hadnt made a mistake with Mr Gs information regarding this 
and had displayed it as reported by Council B.
Mr G was unhappy with this response and so brought his complaint to this service, at that 
time the issue of the missed payment had been resolved. Our investigator thought it was 
one that should be upheld, in summary they said:
Council B had provided evidence to show that Mr Gs electoral register information 
was updated to him living at address B from 1 April 2021, and that Transunion had 
access to that information (this evidence was shared with Transunion). So 
Transunion should have updated the record from that time.
Mr G brought the error to their attention in December 2021 and spent a 
considerable amount of time chasing them and trying to sort the issue out. Its 
clear the information was accessible to Transunion and so they should have 
rectified the mistake much sooner than they did.
Mr G says he was declined for credit agreements during this time and was stuck with 
high APR rates for his credit cards, but this wasnt Transunions responsibility as 
individual lenders have their own decision-making process, and dont rely solely on 
credit reports when making the decisions.
The investigator recommended Transunion paid Mr G £125 to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience the matter had caused, in addition to the £50 they had already 
offered.
Mr G responded saying he felt the compensation was low given the distress the issue had 
caused. And reiterated that his credit score with other CRAs was considerably higher and 
so he felt this was the sole reason for him been declined credit.
Transunion responded disagreeing with the investigators findings, saying they hadnt made 
an error. Since this the investigator has tried to communicate with Transunion on multiple 
occasions, to understand their reasoning given the evidence provided by Council B, 
however they have stopped responding to him.
In the meantime, Mr G has been back in touch and said he would like the 
compensation increased to £2,000.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The 
rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not 
considered everything that both parties have given to me. Having done so I will be 
upholding this complaint, Ill explain.
Before I do I think it would be helpful to set out what I can and cant do here. Providing a 
credit score is not a regulated activity, so isnt something I will be making a finding on. But 
Id like to add some clarity around how it works for Mr G. The score itself is based on an 
algorithm using the data on the credit file, each credit reference agency has its own 
algorithm based on the criteria it thinks is important. Mr Gs credit score will only be visible 
to him, its a general indication which helps customers get a simple view of how their credit 
file might be perceived in a number format. However individual lenders cannot see this 
number, but they can see the data that showing on the credit file. They will have their own 
internal lending criteria which they base their lending decisions on, sometimes they also 
refer to this as a credit score  but it is their internal number not the number displayed to 
Mr G on his credit file.
I appreciate Mr G feels that its the Transunion credit score that prevented him from being 
able to obtain credit to consolidate his credit cards or move them to lower interest rate 
borrowing. As explained above, lenders set their own criteria for lending based on 
numerous factors, and they have access to the data across CRAs to make their decisions. 
So, in order
for me to be able to hold Transunion responsible for Mr G being turned down for credit, Id have to be satisfied the incorrect electoral register information was the sole reason the 
lenders declined the borrowing. I havent seen any evidence that suggests this is the 
case. And although I accept the electoral register information may have been a factor, I 
cant say its the sole reason.
Mr G has provided evidence from Council B showing the electoral register information was 
available to Transunion from 1 April 2021. Council B has confirmed directly with this 
service that information was available, and this has all been provided to Transunion. 
Based on this and the fact that other CRAs held the correct information for Mr G, Im 
satisfied Transunion should have updated Mr Gs credit file with the correct electoral 
register information in April 2021. They didnt update this information until February 2022, 
after two months of Mr G emailing and chasing them to do so. So, I cannot agree 
Transunion didnt make a mistake here.
Mr G has told us this caused him a great deal of worry and stress. In addition to this I can 
see from the email chains provided by both him and Transunion that he went to a great 
deal of effort to have this matter resolved, when Transunion had the information to do this 
all along so should have resolve matters for him much quicker than they did.
I understand Mr Gs strength of feeling about Transunions error and the compensation he 
feels he is due. But Im only considering compensation here for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr G experienced from December 2021 until February 2022, when dealing 
with the error. I say this because although Transunions error dates back to April 2021 Mr G 
only became aware of it, and so was worried about it from December 2021. Transunion 
have already offered Mr G £50 for this, but I dont think this goes far enough. Its clear 
Transunion didnt help Mr G in the way they should have when he raised the issue in 
December 2021.They didnt respond to him when he emailed and communication was poor, 
resulting in him having to email numerous people throughout the business in order to get a 
response. This is not the level of service I would have expected him to be provided, and so 
I will be instructing Transunion to increase this offer to £175 in total.
Putting things right
Transunion should pay Mister G £175 for the distress and inconvenience they have caused. 
This is inclusive of the £50 offer they have already made.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint 
about Transunion International UK Limited. I now require them to put things right as 
described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman