DRN-2579990
The complaint
Miss K has complained that Evolution Insurance Solutions Ltd (Evolution) has declined a 
claim she made on her mortgage income protection policy.
Background
Miss K took out a mortgage income protection policy in 2017. It provided her with cover 
should she become unable to meet her monthly mortgage repayments due to accident, 
sickness or unemployment. There was a 30-day deferral period at the start of any claim and 
a potential monthly benefit of £2,000. 
In April 2019 Miss K underwent surgery and was signed off work until the start of July 2019 
by her GP. She contacted Evolution in June 2019 to enquire about making a claim on her 
policy. 
As part of its consideration into Miss Ks claim Evolution asked for copies of her medical 
records and bank statements to verify that she underwent the surgery as described and that 
it had left her incapacitated and unable to work.
Miss K duly provided Evolution with this information and it discovered that Miss K had 
received a payment from her partners company, whom she works with, in early July 2019. 
Evolution spoke to Miss K about this and she initially said it was for work done previously 
and then clarified to say it was pre-payment for work she was due to do later that month. 
Evolution then declined Miss Ks claim on the basis that she had worked during the period 
being claimed for and as such didnt meet the definition of sick as per the policys terms and 
conditions. 
Miss K complained to Evolution and provided a letter from her partner and the companys 
other directors which stated that the money was an advance for work due to be completed in 
July 2019 after the claim period had ended. However, Miss K wasnt able to produce an 
invoice for the work completed and Evolution continued to assert that she had likely worked 
during the claim period and so refused to reconsider the claim. 
Miss K has also complained that Evolution took too long to provide her with an answer to her 
claim, she contacted it in June 2019 but didnt receive a final response from Evolution until 
October 2019, which she has said was unreasonable and resulted in her experiencing 
financial hardship. 
One of our investigators has already looked into Miss Ks complaint. She found that 
Evolution were entitled to decline the claim under the policys terms and conditions. She also 
looked at the correspondence between Evolution and Miss K and said she was satisfied that 
Evolution had progressed Miss Ks claim in a timely manner and hadnt caused and undue 
delays to it. For those reasons she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss K disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint again and so the case has been passed to me for consideration.  
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order for me to decide whether or not Evolution was entitled to decline Miss Ks claim I 
need to consider what the terms and conditions say and how theyve been applied in 
Miss Ks case. 
Evolution have said the payment that Miss K received in early July 2019 was likely for work 
she had completed during the claim period. It says if Miss K was well enough to work during 
the claim period, she wouldnt have been considered sick as per the definition set out in the 
policys terms and conditions.
The terms and conditions define sickness as:
incapacity resulting solely from an accident or sickness and which is certified by a Doctor as 
preventing You from doing Your normal Work or any similar Work for which You are 
reasonably qualified and as a result of which You are not doing any Work.
Given the nature of the procedure Miss K had in April 2019 I believe its likely she was 
incapacitated immediately following her surgery. Because of this I asked Miss K, who is 
being represented by her partner, for any medical evidence she could provide from her 
consultant that would clarify the procedure and how it had impacted her. However, the 
information received was very general in nature and didnt speak to Miss Ks recovery or 
how long it had lasted. 
I also listened to the call between Miss K and the Evolution representative in July 2019 when 
she was asked about the payment she had received earlier that month. During the call 
Miss K confirmed that it wouldve been for work already done and that it was likely for 
the  month previous
Therefore, having taken everything Miss K and her partner have said, as well as everything 
Evolution have said into consideration, I think its more likely than not that Miss K did some 
work for her partners company during the claim period and thats why she received payment 
from it in early July 2019. Which would mean that she was able to perform her normal work 
during the claim period and thus wouldnt have met the definition of sick as set out in the 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
Miss K has also said that Evolution took too long to decide on the outcome of her claim and 
this resulted in unfair financial stress. Ive looked at the correspondence between Miss K and 
Evolution and can agree with our investigator, that while the claim may have taken longer 
than expected to progress, I dont think it was because of any avoidable delays on the part of 
Evolution. Rather, as part of its consideration of the claim, it requested additional information 
and needed time to consider this and ask any follow up questions. The information 
requested wasnt unreasonable in nature and Evolution did give Miss K referral rights to our 
organisation when the initial eight week response period had lapsed.
Therefore, for the reasons set out above I dont think Evolution has acted unreasonably in 
relation to Miss Ks claim and Im not going to ask it to do any more in relation to it. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint against Evolution Insurance 
Solutions Ltd
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman