DRN-3314981
The complaint
Mr S complained that his claim was unfairly declined under his home insurance policy with 
AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA). 
What happened
Mr S quad bike was stolen from an outbuilding at his property, so he made a claim on his 
policy. AXA declined the claim due to an exclusion clause in the policy. It said, any claim 
made for motorised objects would not be covered under this policy.
However, Mr S thought this was unfair as the policy did cover garden machinery. Mr S 
explained that his quad bike wasnt road licenced and was used for the maintenance of our 
garden/paddock e.g. enabling rolling, harrowing & mowing.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She didnt think the quad bike 
reasonably fell under the category garden machinery, so didnt think AXA had been unfair in 
declining the claim. Mr S disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 17 January 2021. I said:
Im satisfied that Mr Ss quad bike should be considered as garden machinery due to it 
solely being used in the garden. Ill explain why.
The policy does cover Mr S for the theft of contents at his home, including his outbuildings. 
However, AXA relied on the terms and conditions of the policy to decline the claim. The 
exclusion AXA applied used was Claims arising from the use of motorised objects (e.g. lifts, 
vehicles, drones, segways etc.) except garden machinery.
The policy terms specifically exclude motorised objects except garden machinery. Mr S 
asked AXA if had definitions for certain terms in its policy. But AXA doesnt define motorised 
objects or garden machinery. Mr S said he used the quad bike for the maintenance of 
[his] garden/paddock e.g. enabling rolling, harrowing & mowing. Mr S said he had a large 
garden and only used the quad bike to maintain the garden, so hes always considered it to 
be garden machinery. Mr S said the use of quad bikes is common in the area he lives for the 
maintenance of gardens / land.
Mr S said his quad bike wasnt licenced for road use and Ive not seen any evidence that the 
quad bike was used anywhere but the garden. So, Im persuaded that Mr S did purchase his 
quad bike for the purpose of maintaining his garden.
 
I note that quad bikes are offered for sale on mainstream gardening websites. So, while I
agree that a quad bike isnt an obvious piece of garden machinery for many people, I dont
agree that it doesnt fall into this category at all. I think its clear that Mr S bought and
used their quad bike with the garden in mind.
AXA described the quad bike as being designed to travel and has a motor within, which it 
said means its excluded under the contents cover. However, not all motorised objects are 
excluded under the policy. The terms of the policy state that motorised objects that are 
categorised as garden machinery are covered by the policy. The term AXA relies on is silent 
on what garden machinery might be. If AXA had intended to exclude quad bikes, regardless 
of what they were being used for, I think it would have been reasonable to make this clear in 
the policy terms.
While Ive considered AXAs perspective, I note that it was within its power
to define garden machinery. It couldve simply said garden machinery is any machinery 
which has no other possible use outside the garden. So, I dont think it was fair when AXA 
declined the claim based on the quad bike not being garden machinery. Therefore, I intend 
to uphold this complaint, I intend to require AXA to re-consider the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S accepted my findings and didnt have anything more to add.
AXA hasnt said whether it accepts my findings. AXA said it couldnt respond to my 
provisional decision as Mr S hadnt told it how much his quad bike was worth when it was 
carrying out its validation checks on the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think AXA needs this information to decide whether to accept my provisional decision 
or not. My provisional decision simply sets out that AXA couldnt decline the claim based on 
a quad bike not being garden machinery. It should now re-consider the claim taking this into 
account. 
AXA need to do this in a fair way. So, if Mr S is unhappy with how this is done, he can raise 
a new complaint. But as guidance, if Mr S bought his bike in 2004, then its unlikely he would 
still have records relating back to the purchase. So, AXA may want to speak with Mr S and 
identify an alternative way of valuing his bike.
However, given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I require AXA Insurance UK plc to re-consider 
the claim in line with the remaining and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman