DRN-4058838
The complaint
Miss M complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi Financial 
Services.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think theres sufficient evidence that the fault Miss M now says the car is suffering 
from was present or developing when the car was supplied to her. I dont therefore think it 
would be fair to ask VWFS to take any further action. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss M acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier 
of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss M. The car here was brand 
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults when it was 
supplied.
The service history suggests the first fault with this car was identified about a year after it 
was supplied. An Ad Blue leak was repaired in July 2019. Its unclear whether this fault was 
present or developing when the car was supplied but, even if it was, the relevant legislation 
allows the business one opportunity to fix a fault in those circumstances and thats what it 
did.
There was no mention of any Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) cooler blockage when the 
car was inspected at that point. I think it would be likely that such an issue would be 
identified if it was present.
The cooler blockage wasnt identified until Miss M had been in possession of the car for over 
four years and until shed completed over 40,000 miles in the vehicle. I think any fault with 
the EGR cooler would have shown up much earlier if it had been present or developing from 
inception of the deal. I also note the car had been serviced in the preceding years, and I 
think its likely such an issue would have been identified then, as well, as I note the Engine 
Management Light was illuminated. I can see that the health check completed in December 
2022 identified some other issues e.g. transmission oil, brake fluid and tyre wear, but I think 
all of those issues could only fairly be considered as wear and tear; they dont lead me to 
conclude that the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
In those circumstances I dont think I have sufficient evidence this car was of unsatisfactory 
quality when supplied and Im not asking VWFS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman