DRN-4023714
The complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund payments he says he didnt make from 
his account.
What happened
Mr O disputes eight online payments which total £2,554. He says that these were made by 
someone who lived in the same hostel accommodation. That person transferred the money 
to his own account and Mr O says that he didnt authorise this.
HSBC said it wouldnt be refunding the money. The payments had required Mr Os security 
information and it didnt consider they were possible without his knowledge.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr O had told him that the 
neighbour had often come over to help him. And that he managed to obtain his phone and 
make the payments. Mr O said that the PIN on the phone was the same as that for his online 
banking. Mr O said he had lent the third-party cash but not allowed any payments. And that 
he didnt check his account online and so didnt notice the payments until 20 October 2022 
when he reported this to HBSC.
Our adjudicator said that a new device had been registered to use online banking on 6 
October 2022. The first two disputed payments were made using this. The rest were made 
with Mr Os phone. Registering the new device required a one-time passcode sent to the 
existing phone to be entered online. Mr O had also made genuine payments online using his 
phone between the disputed ones. So, our adjudicator thought he would reasonably have 
noticed the disputed ones before he says. Also, he couldnt see why his neighbour would 
have needed to have that phone if he had access through the newly registered device. It had 
been Mr Os decision to keep the PIN on the phone in a discoverable way. If he hadnt kept 
his information secure that enabled his neighbour to make the payments. There was no 
evidence provided of this being reported to police and his neighbour being implicated as    
Mr O said.
Mr O didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with security information. And if the payments 
werent authorised Mr O wouldnt generally be responsible for them. 
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the security details used for 
these payments?
- Did Mr O authorise the payments on the account, which could have been by allowing 
someone else to use the account?
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely.
Im satisfied that the payments were authenticated. They were made each time following a 
log on using the HSBC phone app. And this required Mr Os security information and the 
use of a registered device. I note as our adjudicator says that a new phone was registered 
to the account on 6 October 2022 and used to make payments that day of £100 and £50. 
The audit information shows that the security information and a one-time passcode were 
required for this. All other payments were made with the existing device Mr O had.
The issue is whether he consented to the payments. I agree with our adjudicator that if a 
third party had somehow been able to register a new device then its unclear why hed use 
Mr Os other device for the further six payments. I note that there was a gap between the 
first two payments and the next ones which occurred on 13 October 2022. That was the day 
that Mr O received large credits of over £10,000 to his account. Its unclear how a third party 
would know about that. While a disputed payment of £300 was made that day, there was a 
substantial balance available. Its likely someone with such access to his account would 
take as much money as soon as possible as they risked discovery. Mr O made significant 
genuine payments during and after the disputed payments online. This would mean that a 
fraudster would need to be able to take and then return his phone several times. Mr O 
reported what had happened when there was it seems £30 left in his account. The disputed 
payments were a part of the amount that had been paid out by then.
I dont have any evidence to support what Mr O says about his neighbour being implicated 
and he doesnt have any police report. He says his neighbour was arrested by police with 
his phone on him. I appreciate Mr O says hes had mental health issues. He was at the time 
able to operate the account himself and Im not persuaded on the evidence that he wouldnt 
be reasonably aware of the payments. Or that the payments were only possible because of 
any particular vulnerability, and which say prevented him doing anything about them any 
earlier. 
Having balanced all the factors here I dont find it most likely that Mr O didnt consent to the 
payments. This could have involved him allowing a third-party having access to his account. 
And if hed done that Im afraid he was fairly responsible for what that person subsequently  
did and which I know he says led to conflict between them.
I appreciate the amount at stake here. Mr O has referred to taking legal action and hes free 
to do so subject to any relevant time limits if he doesnt accept my decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 Michael Crewe
Ombudsman