DRN-2618905
The complaint
Mrs As complaint results from a declined claim on a pet insurance policy she has with 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA). In 2020 she made a claim for her cat and was 
told it wouldnt be covered because it was linked to a previous allergy and, as shed taken 
out a new policy in 2018, the skin condition was considered to be pre-existing. 
What happened
In 2008 Mrs A arranged a pet insurance policy underwritten by RSA for each of her kittens, 
which she believed shes maintained throughout. 
However, in 2018 Mrs A called RSA about her policy. Her recollections of the reason for the 
call was to upgrade her policy  to enhance the benefits linked to it. However, RSA didnt 
upgrade the existing policy, but rather replaced it with a new policy that had the enhanced 
benefits Mrs A wanted. Mrs A said she wasnt made aware RSA had set up a new policy 
and, unfortunately, RSA didnt respond to our requests for the recording of this telephone 
call.
RSAs notes indicate that it may have been possible to upgrade the type of policy involved in 
this claim. However, it may not have been possible for Mrs A to have done so because of 
some claims made for her other cat. When we asked for further information on this matter, 
again RSA failed to respond, despite the request being made several times.
From the spring of 2016, one of the insured cats was treated for a seasonal allergy that 
caused her ears to itch. This seasonal allergy reappeared in the spring each year thereafter 
and continued to be treated successfully with ear drops and anti-inflammatory medication. 
Mrs A didnt claim for this condition.
In the spring of 2020 the cat had her usual flare up of her seasonal allergy and the normal 
treatment worked to address the problem. However, a short time later, the cat presented 
with very severe skin symptoms around her ears and a lesion on her underside, and the 
previously used medication didnt work. The cat was also showing signs of a change in 
demeanour and the symptomatic skin was causing pain, which hadnt been the case 
previously. The symptoms spread from the ears and stomach to other areas of her head and 
she lost weight. 
Further investigations were undertaken to determine the cause of the problem  the vets at 
the practice initially thinking it could have been a condition called pemphigus foliaceus or 
extreme allergies. The later vets notes documented that the histology report produced 
following skin samples being analysed said Histopathology compatible with pemphigus 
foliaceus with likely background allergy. Later in the same note, the vet described the report 
as saying there was an underlying allergy. We havent been provided with a copy of the 
histology report by either party, so I dont know the actual wording contained in the report.
The cat was treated for the autoimmune disease, which was different treatment to that 
needed for the allergy, and the vet notes reported the cat was back to her normal self within 
a month.  
Mrs A made a claim for the treatment her cat had received. RSA decided the proximate 
cause of the autoimmune disease was an allergy the cat had suffered from 2016. As such, it 
decided the condition pre-existed the start of the new policy and was excluded from cover. 
RSA declined the claim. 
Mrs A wasnt happy with this decision and RSA said it would reconsider its decision if it 
received a challenge from the treating vet. Mrs As vet wrote to RSA and informed it that the 
autoimmune disease was not linked to the previous allergy. However, RSA didnt change its 
decision about the claim. 
Mrs A referred her complaint to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. 
She recommended that it be upheld as she wasnt persuaded that Mrs A had known her 
policy was replaced or that she consented to it being, given the risks associated with doing 
so. In addition, she wasnt persuaded the autoimmune disease was linked to the seasonal 
allergy, based on the vets explanation. As such, she considered RSA should deal with the 
claim as though Mrs A had continuous cover since the start of her original policy. In relation 
to the policy going forward, the investigator gave Mrs A the option of having the original 
policy reinstated, with RSA confirming before she made a decision, what benefits would be 
associated with it  as it might involve the benefits being reduced. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two issues in question in this case:
Whether Mrs A knowingly took out a new policy in 2018; and
whether the 2016 and 2020 conditions are linked, and so should be considered one 
condition for the purposes of the policy terms and conditions. 
I note that RSA hasnt provided a recording of the telephone call from 2018 in which Mrs As 
existing policy was cancelled and a new one arranged. RSAs notes of the call dont provide 
any useful information on the content of the conversation that was had. 
Mrs A has said she wasnt aware her policy was being replaced, rather she thought that the 
benefits on the existing policy had simply been enhanced. Shes also explained that she had 
the conversation about improving cover because her cats were getting older. I see no reason 
to disbelieve Mrs As recollection. Indeed, given Mrs A works in the veterinary care 
profession, I think it likely she would have been very aware of the potential consequences of 
changing insurance policy for an older animal and that doing so could create situations like 
the one she has found herself in. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mrs A was aware of, or consented to, changing her policy 
with the associated consequences. Nor do I think it likely that Mrs A would have agreed to 
doing so had it been made clear. As such, I dont consider it reasonable for RSA to take the 
break in cover into account in this case and the claim should be reviewed on the basis of 
Mrs A having uninterrupted cover from 2008. 
This conclusion means that I dont need to consider whether there is a link between the 
allergy and autoimmune disease. This is because, the condition cannot be considered as a 
pre-existing condition because of the ongoing cover.
Putting things rightRSA is to provide Mrs A with information about what cover her pre-2018 policy would now be 
providing if it hadnt been cancelled in 2018. This will enable Mrs A to make an informed 
decision about whether she wants to have that policy reinstated. She should confirm her 
decision direct to RSA and it should reinstate the policy if required.
In addition, RSA should deal with the claim, assuming continuous cover from the start of the 
original policy. This means that the autoimmune disease cannot be considered a pre-existing 
condition and excluded from cover.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to 
settle the claim in line with Putting things right above. If Mrs A accepts this decision, the 
actions required of RSA should be completed within 28 calendar days of Mrs As 
acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2021. 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman