DRN-3280934
The complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland PLC, trading as Halifax, has treated him unfairly in relation to a 
transaction on his debit card.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr B used his Halifax debit card to pay £200 for a deposit for a short 
holiday tour through an introducer. In May 2020 the introducer confirmed the tour had been 
cancelled by the tour organiser. The introducer then went into administration in August 2020. 
So he took his complaint to Halifax in December 2020 to see if Halifax could get his £200 
back.
Halifax considered Chargeback and didnt think it needed to make a refund for this 
transaction. So Mr B brought his complaint to this service. Our Investigator felt Halifax had 
treated Mr B fairly. And Mr B remains unhappy and so this complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
could Halifax challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr B does 
here, Halifax (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. Mr B 
doesnt dispute that he used his Halifax debit card here. Nor does he dispute the amount, 
date, or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think Halifax couldve 
challenged the payment on the basis Mr B didnt properly authorise the transaction, given 
what Ive just set out.
Halifax is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through (or continue with) the chargeback process or not. If it 
does go through the process, then it must do so properly. But ultimately the Card Scheme 
has the final say on this process. So Halifax isnt solely responsible for the decision whether 
to refund or not, when going through the chargeback process. And it can fairly decide to not 
proceed at any stage if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Halifax has pointed to the time limits in the card scheme which set out when Chargebacks 
can be made. The transaction was in February 2020 and he took the dispute to Halifax in 
December 2020. The applicable time limit is 120 days from the transaction itself or from the 
time of delivery of the expected service.
Our investigator considered the matter and observed that they thought that Chargeback was 
out of time. They also pointed to evidence from the card scheme whod released further 
guidance due to the pandemic explaining its position with regard to a variety of issues 
including the time limits for bringing such chargebacks when businesses have collapsed.
Ive considered the dates of Mr Bs tour along with the appropriate time limits rules and 
guidance and I can see that Mr B didnt take his complaint to Halifax until a significant time 
after the time limit had expired. So I can see why Halifax didnt take the matter forward. And I 
dont think Halifax has treated Mr B unfairly in not pursuing the option of a chargeback 
further.
And as this transaction was on Mr Bs debit card there are no other means of recourse that 
Halifax are responsible for (unlike credit cards which do have other means of recourse).
I can well appreciate Mr Bs disappointment at what has happened and indeed at my 
decision. However Halifax has treated him fairly here and hence his complaint is 
unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland PLC, 
trading as Halifax. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman