DRN-1854174
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has unfairly declined her 
claim for terminal illness benefit under two personal protection policies. She is represented 
by a solicitor in pursuing her complaint.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision to the parties on 7 May 2020. A full copy of the findings set 
out in that decision is provided in italics below.
I have therefore looked at Mrs Ps policies, the medical evidence and applied her 
circumstances to the relevant policy terms. Having done so, I have reached a different 
outcome to our investigator.
I have looked at what the parties' obligations are under the terms and conditions of each 
policy. That is the start point. The two sets of policy terms are identical (other than differing 
sums assured), since the policies were the same type and began at the same time. The 
policy schedules under the section marked BENEFIT say:
 
On the death of the Life Assured before the Expiry Date, or upon diagnosis of a 
Terminal Illness at least 18 months before the Expiry Date
[Policy one] there shall become payable the Sum Assured of £160,000.00.
[Policy two] the Sum Assured payable will depend on the policy month in which 
Terminal Illness is diagnosed as shown in the table below.
Each policy has a set of terms and conditions which go further and define Terminal Illness. 
The wording for that says:
 
If the Life Assured has a Terminal Illness, namely an advanced or rapidly progressing 
incurable illness, where in the opinion of an attending Consultant and our Chief 
Medical Officer, the life expectancy is no greater than 12 months, Legal & General will 
make an advance payment of the Sum Assured. This benefit will not be available 
during the 18 months immediately before the Expiry Date. Once payment has been 
made the policy will terminate and no further benefit will be payable.
 
The policy terms then go on to specify what (for the purposes of these policies) terminal 
illness means. It requires 1) that the illness is incurable and either advanced or rapidly 
progressing 2) the two medical opinions and 3) that those opinions give a life expectancy of 
less than 12 months.
Those terms also set out in an unequivocal way that the benefit will not be available during the last 18 months of the policy.
In my view, it is clear from the policy schedule that the event  payment of terminal illness 
benefit - requires diagnosis of a terminal illness. I realise the solicitor disputes this, but it is 
set out unmistakeably in the policy schedules for both policies.
But, unlike our investigator and L&G have stated, I disagree as to what that means in 
respect of Mrs Ps circumstances. 
The policy benefit is payable upon diagnosis of a terminal illness, and the policy terms for 
each policy then go on to explain what a qualifying terminal illness is, in order for a valid 
claim to be paid.
L&G has looked at this complaint from the date of the diagnosis of the secondary cancer. 
But I do not believe this to be fair or reasonable in the circumstances. The terminal illness 
diagnosis that is relevant here is Mrs Ps first diagnosis. The second diagnosis is metastases 
of the first cancer. Both are sadly terminal.
As of 2012, Mrs P was diagnosed with a type of condition which is both advanced and 
incurable. That she has gone on to exceed median life expectancies of between 36 and 45 
months is merely down to her response to treatment. Mrs Ps second treating consultant, Dr 
B, has confirmed that the condition in 2012 was a terminal illness.
Mrs Ps solicitor says that there is no statement in the policy terms set out above where a 
policyholder must show that the terminal illness was pronounced by medical experts at a 
particular time. I agree with that. As Ive said, the wording requires diagnosis of a terminal 
illness  -one that must satisfy the three limbs I have explained above. 
In order to have claim payments made, the terms of the policy have to be met before the last 
18 months of the policy  that being in Mrs Ps case, 12 February 2018.
I realise Mrs Ps solicitor disputes the fairness of the 18-month term. L&G has explained that 
the reason it includes that exclusion is because of the time taken to consider a claim for an 
advance payment of death benefit, if a person is likely to pass away before the policy ends. I 
cannot simply instruct L&G to disregard part of the policy wording. In considering what is fair 
and reasonable to both parties, I must refer to the contracts of insurance between Mrs P and 
L&G. I cannot infer terms in the contracts to allow for goodwill or ex-gratia payments. An 
insurer may well choose to apply discretion or act outside of the terms (if it does so in a more 
favourable way than the terms allow), but it is not something I can order it to do.
As noted, the diagnosis of an incurable and advanced illness in Mrs Ps case was clearly her 
first female cancer of 2012. But, the other limbs of the policy wording were not met at that 
time. That is because Mrs Ps attending consultant, Dr W, did not give an estimate of her life 
expectancy until matters had progressed in respect of the secondary cancer diagnosed in 
October 2018. That is unfortunately within the last 18 months of both policies and Dr W gave 
a date of November 2018 for the life expectancy.
At the time of the final response to the complaint, L&G had refused the claims, as it had only 
sought evidence from Dr W. But, matters have since progressed. And it had not sought a 
similar report from Mrs Ps second treating consultant, Dr B.
Mrs Ps solicitor has supplied evidence from Dr B. The solicitor has also sent this service 
copies of two letters it sent to Dr B so the parties can see exactly what he was asked. 
Though Dr W treated Mrs P initially, when her cancer metastised he referred her to Dr B.Dr B then says Mrs P would have had less than twelve months to live in both 2012 and 
November 2017. In respect of the first assessment, that is said in isolation. The statement of 
life expectancy is given on the basis Mrs P wouldnt have any treatment. A revised life 
expectancy of 36 to 45 months was given on the basis of Mrs P undergoing chemotherapy, 
and she did go on to have continued treatment. I cannot therefore disregard that in a 
statement of life expectancy, unless it would be unsafe, unreasonable or inappropriate for 
Mrs P to undergo the treatment. 
However, Dr B has given a further explanation of his view of Mrs Ps life expectancy in 
respect of her metastatic stage four cancer. He was asked 1) when was the likely time that 
Mrs Ps cancer spread to her brain and 2) what was Mrs Ps life expectancy on 11 February 
2018?
Dr B gave the following answers:
 
Mrs Ps condition has been worsened by the development of the brain metastases, 
secondary to the [female] cancer. These were first discovered in October/November 
2018, at which time there were over 40 separate metastatic tumours identified on an 
MRI scan. In my opinion there is a high probability that multiple metastases were 
present in the brain for the last year before they were discovered  i.e. from before 
November 2017.
Had the brain metastases been discovered at the beginning of February 2018, in my 
opinion the correct diagnosis of life expectancy for [Mrs P] in the light of such 
metastases, would have been less than twelve months from that date.  
Dr Bs statement is given with the knowledge that Mrs B went on to have gamma knife 
treatment, though sadly this had to be stopped because of the progression of the multiple 
metastatic tumours.
Mrs P has an incurable condition that Dr B concludes had a life expectancy of less than 
twelve months as at February 2018. That Dr B has given that opinion retrospectively is not a 
barrier to satisfying a claim providing it meets the policy terms. I take the view that there is 
nothing inherently unfair in looking at a complaint retrospectively to determine if evidence 
was presented at the required time, whether a claim definition would have been satisfied or 
not. That is different to applying hindsight.
It is a reasonable approach to assess if a claim could have been made at an earlier point. 
That is because Mrs P has suffered from a terminal illness since she was diagnosed with 
stage three cancer back in 2012. At that time, medical studies gave a mean life expectancy 
of 36 to 45 months. What hadnt happened until this claim was made was a life expectancy 
of less than twelve months during the policy term, and crucially before the 18 month 
exclusion. It has now been confirmed by Dr B. 
I therefore believe claims should be paid under both policies. 
I appreciate that the policy wording Ive set out above requires opinions by both 
professionals. But, I note that L&G has not supplied any further evidence from its CMO in 
relation to Dr Bs comments. And in any event, it is also important for me to take account of 
industry guidance. In the later codes of practice from the Association of British Insurers, 
model wording for terminal illness benefit requires a definite diagnosis by the attending 
consultant, and not a CMO.Though CMOs are medical professionals with relevant experience to assess claims, it is 
understandable that the weight given to a medical opinion should fall to a consultant or 
specialist treating a patient directly within his or her area of medical expertise. I have no 
reason to disregard the assessment of a suitably qualified specialist attending to Mrs Ps 
brain cancer, and I accept Dr Bs assessment of Mrs Ps circumstances as at February 2018.
Further, I have seen internal correspondence from January 2019 where the CMO recognises 
Mrs Ps rare metastases and the CMO states that published studies show that Mrs P would 
have had a life expectancy of six months from the date of her MRI scan in October 2018. 
This is consistent with the expectancy given by Dr B as at February 2018. I believe Dr B has 
given a reasonable retrospective assessment that sadly Mrs P had less than twelve months 
to live at that time, had he seen her earlier than he did. 
Mrs Ps solicitor said she agreed with the decision and wanted it to be acknowledged that 
she felt I had undertaken a thorough review of her complaint. She made two further points  
did it in the third person in some of the background bullet points refer to the solicitor and 
that there was one misquoted date of February 2019 not February 2018 in the background.
L&G said it disagreed with my provisional findings. It has made a number of lengthy 
submissions, which I am not going to repeat in full here. Instead, I have included a summary 
below. For clarity, I have read everything L&G has provided. L&G also supplied a number of 
comments from its CMO, which were:
 
the stage three cancer diagnosis of 2012 would be regarded as an incurable but 
highly treatable malignancy;
there is no accepted medical definition of incurable versus terminal;
as the average life expectancy for Mrs Ps type of cancer at that time was a number 
of years, the CMO does not think that a newly diagnosed patient would be described 
as terminal;
it is difficult to answer the question of life expectancy with any great accuracy;
however, the CMO says that he would think that upon discovery, Mrs Ps cancer is 
likely to have been present in the brain for between 6-12 months;
in is view there would be a long interval from initial spread, to the lesions reaching 
the size to be visible on a scan, and then a further interval to the lesions causing 
symptoms that lead to a scan and diagnosis;
it is accepted that a person has a six-month average life expectancy upon symptoms 
 but this happened for Mrs P in October 2018, after the terminal illness benefit had 
ended;
but there isnt data to support asymptomatic life expectancy confirmations;
Mrs P was still receiving treatment in February 2018;
as a result, he would think if L&G had considered an application in February 2018 for 
terminal illness benefit in a clinically well patient with an ongoing complete response 
to targeted therapy (for their first cancer) he would have suggested deferring a claim 
at that point;
whilst he would agree that it is likely that there were cancer cells present in the brain 
12 months prior to Mrs Ps diagnosis, the question should also be when would they 
likely to have been detectable on a scan;
the reinsurers CMO said that because Mrs P had a complete response to treatment 
for her first cancer her condition was not incurable;
she agrees that brain metastases are uncommon in Mrs Ps specific type of female 
cancer and so brain scans would not be done for monitoring chemotherapy in the 
absence of symptoms;she takes the view that Mrs P had a life expectancy of seven months at best, but this 
was only from when the metastatic cancer was discovered;
if they were looking at Mrs Ps position in 2018 then perhaps her life expectancy 
would be some months but it is impossible to give a finite number;
if Mrs P had a routine scan to include the brain in the absence of symptoms in 
February 2018, it is possible that she may have only had a few, smaller brain 
metastases that were amenable to surgery and or stereotactic radiosurgery and thus 
her life expectancy could have been a few years with treating the brain;
the second CMO says she cannot be sure that brain metastases would be present on 
a scan in February 2018 as the recurrent cancer in the abdomen was being 
controlled very effectively with systemic treatment.
In summary, L&G submitted that:
 
Dr W confirmed in his report dated 3 December 2018, that it became apparent on 2 
November 2018 that Mrs Ps life expectancy was less than 12 months;
this was the date of her MRI scan, confirming the metastases;
L&Gs own CMO, a Consultant Medical Oncologist, concurs with this date;
it did consider Mrs Ps complete eight-year history of cancer and it is mistaken to 
suggest otherwise;
Mrs P did not have a terminal illness diagnosis in 2012, because of the treatment 
afforded to her;
it couldnt have paid a claim in 2012 on that basis;
her response to treatment in 2012 could only be measured by re-staging scans which 
may indicate a number of scenarios; a complete response to treatment, partial 
response, disease stabilisation or disease progression;
because Mrs P had a complete response to treatment at that time, it could be argued 
that she did not have an incurable cancer;
it could only have paid a claim when there was evidence of disease progression;
that event is 31 October 2018  after the terminal illness benefit ends for the policies;
it wasnt necessary to get a report from Dr B, as it had one from Dr W;
it agrees that there is nothing inherently unfair in looking at a claim retrospectively to 
determine if evidence was presented at the required time, whether a claim definition 
would have been satisfied or not;
there is no objective or radiographical medical evidence to support Dr Bs opinion 
and it has obtained two opposing views from practising oncologists (their CMO and 
their reinsurers CMO) that say it is impossible to say when macroscopic brain 
metastases that could be detected on CT or MRI would have been present;
it is unclear if Dr B has been appointed as a treating oncologist or merely to review 
the claim;
the terminal illness wording is consistent with the model wording outlined by the ABI 
Statement of Best Practice 2006, which is the version that was in place when Mrs P 
took out her policies in August 2012;
the right position is to look at the wording that applies from when the policy was taken 
out;
the provisional findings state that the ombudsman will not simply instruct L&G to 
disregard part of the policy wording, so surely the same applies when requiring the 
opinion of its CMO;
there is no objective evidence whatsoever to suggest Mrs P would have met the 
terminal illness definition prior to 12 February 2018;both CMOs are practising oncologists who each have the relevant medical expertise 
to review Mrs Ps medical information and have commented in an objective and 
impartial manner;
Dr Bs comments are pure speculation  the fact remains Mrs P went almost nine 
months before she became symptomatic with her secondary cancer;
it is correct that L&Gs CMO said that published studies would show Mrs P had a six 
month life expectancy as at October 2018;
and this would be consistent with the life expectancy supplied by Dr B;
but this actually places her life expectancy as being less than 12 months at the 
beginning of May 2018, not February 2018  and this is within 18 months of the end 
of both sets of policy terms;
ultimately, L&G does not accept Dr Bs medical opinion as persuasive enough to 
confirm the policy definitions were met before Mrs Ps policies entered their last 18 
months.  
The complaint has now been passed back to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for their submissions, in particular L&G has provided significant 
further detail in its prompt response. 
However, I am not minded to change my view. This complaint should succeed, and I do not 
believe the additional submissions alter my view. I remain persuaded that claims ought to be 
paid under both policies. 
In response to Mrs Ps two particular queries, yes - it in the context of the solicitors 
submissions does indeed refer to the solicitor, and I indeed made a typographical error 
where on one occasion I wrote February 2019, not February 2018. It doesnt form part of my 
final determination here, so I have not needed to make an amendment. 
L&Gs CMO makes a differing argument to the reinsurers CMO. The principal CMO says 
that as at 2012, Mrs Ps condition was incurable, whereas the second CMO says it was likely 
incurable but not without a very small prospect of a cure. However, the second CMO also 
sets out the many occasions during Mrs Ps ongoing treatment for her first cancer where she 
had multiple relapses.
On balance, I believe the view of the principal CMO alongside that of Mrs Ps treating 
consultants is a reasonable one  in 2012, she was diagnosed with an incurable but 
treatable malignancy. That has to be the case where all of the parties involved agree that 
Mrs P had a life expectancy (with a response to treatment) of several years. That, in my view 
meets the requirement of the first part of the definition (if the Life Assured has a Terminal 
Illness, namely an advanced or rapidly progressing incurable illness).
I do not accept that there is the need to ascertain the difference between terminal and 
incurable  that isnt what the policy wording says. It defines a named event of Terminal 
Illness by confirmation that a person has an advanced or rapidly progressing incurable 
illness. Mrs Ps life expectancy of 36-45 months was given with the knowledge she would 
receive targeted therapy for her type of high grade gynaecological cancer. Her stage three 
cancer was an advanced and incurable illness. It met the first part of the definition, in the 
three limbs I set out in my provisional findings. Clearly, in 2012 and during some of the treatment thereafter for the first cancer, Mrs P did 
not meet the rest of the policy definition (limbs two and three). That was because it was not 
assessed that she would live for less than twelve months at that time.
L&G explains now that it has looked at this complaint from the date of the diagnosis of the 
secondary cancer because it could not have paid a claim for the 2012 diagnosis. Whilst I 
accept that, my view remains that the terminal illness diagnosis that is relevant here is Mrs 
Ps first diagnosis. The second diagnosis is metastases of the first cancer. Both are sadly 
terminal where that assessment relates to the policy terms. Whether a claim is payable 
depends therefore on the evidence in respect of the remaining portion of the definitions for 
both policies.
Dr B has provided sufficient evidence regarding the remaining limbs of the policy definitions. 
I appreciate L&G has asked about how Dr B has come to review Mrs Ps situation. But L&G 
was already supplied a letter from the solicitor dated 30 December 2019 which says Dr B is 
Mrs Ps treating oncologist in [CITY]. The solicitor went further and supplied a copy of Dr 
Bs credentials which specifically include that his subspecialties are tumours of the brain and 
pelvis (gynaecological malignancies), the two types of cancer Mrs P has suffered. 
L&G has also said that because I set out how I couldnt simply disregard the 18 month policy 
exclusion in the wording for terminal illness benefit that I must therefore apply that same 
logic to the requirement of both the attending specialist and the CMO to agree there is a 
reduced life expectancy of less than twelve months (limbs two and three). 
However, the two applications are different. The 18-month exclusion in the policy wording is 
unconditional. It sets out a defined date in absolute terms, which cannot be altered by the 
application of subjectivity. On the other hand, the opinions of the two medical professionals 
have variable parameters. It is entirely possible that two suitably qualified medical experts 
can reach different conclusions on review of the same set of medical facts. 
Though I do not in any way suggest L&G would do so, if claims of this nature required an 
absolute agreement of a CMO then this could provide the potential to refuse claims 
arbitrarily. Again, I do not believe that is the case here  it is merely that L&Gs principal 
CMO (and the reinsurers CMO alongside) does not accept the life expectancy given. 
Specifically, the CMO agreed Mrs P has a six-month life expectancy in October 2018, so 
L&G submits this meant her twelve month diagnosis would have been (in the CMOs view) in 
May 2018. 
Following that argument, I believe L&G intends that the life expectancy would have started 
as at April 2018 (this is six months prior to October 2018) but only where it could evidence 
Mrs Ps brain metastases.   
It is worth noting here that April 2018 is two months outside of the relevant date of February 
2018. And given the CMO also agrees that it is difficult to answer the question of life 
expectancy with any great accuracy, I would point out that these are very proximate to one 
another.
In any event, the rules which apply to this service set out that I am entitled to decide the 
outcome of a complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. And having done so, I am of the view that a fair application of the 
requirement for a CMOs opinion ought to provide some latitude, where it is accepted that 
providing life expectancies in these circumstances does require some degree of estimation. 
Further, the CMO also accepts that upon discovery, Mrs Ps cancer is likely to have been 
present in the brain for between 6-12 months and notes that there isnt open data (from appropriate medical data sources) to assess asymptomatic life expectancy confirmations for 
cases like Mrs Ps. That means no empirical data exists to shed doubt on Dr Bs 
assessment, which is only marginally outside of the accepted estimate of the CMO.  
I accept that the wording of the ABI guidance that applied when Mrs P took out her policies 
included an opinion from a CMO whereas later versions of that guidance do not. But that 
does not alter that I am entitled to make a fair and reasonable assessment of the application 
of the CMOs opinions when measured against that of Dr B.
In scenarios such as these where suitably qualified oncologists give differing views, Ill 
decide which I think is the more reasonable on balance. The view of Dr B as Mrs Ps treating 
consultant is something I give more weight to; this is not merely based on a measure of his 
knowledge or experience over either CMO, it is also the case that as the attending 
consultant with subspecialties for both types of cancer Mrs P has suffered from, he was best 
placed to comment on his life expectancy. He has been able to provide this by looking 
retrospectively. Though L&G submits Dr Bs view is not persuasive enough, I disagree.
I do not accept L&Gs view that in order to make this assessment Dr B must have had to rely 
on radiographical evidence. The reason this does not exist is because of the significantly 
rare circumstances of brain metastases from gynaecological cancers such as Mrs Ps. That 
of itself doesnt mean Dr B is unable to give a retrospective view. The CMO has done the 
same and reached a position of a possible 12-month life expectancy being May (April) 2018.
To reiterate, given our remit to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I believe it would 
be unfair to refuse Mrs Ps claims on the basis that the CMOs views differ because of an 
absence of radiographical evidence as at February 2018 or where parties have said theyve 
(rightly) used their own clinical judgement.
Though there is a dispute on the same set of medical facts by the two parties, I find one view 
more significant. I have seen no evidence or reason as to why I ought to disregard the 
comments from Dr B; his retrospective assessment of Mrs Ps life expectancy took account 
of her particular state of health and I the absence of data from February 2018 by the size 
and number (over 40) of the metastatic tumours upon discovery.
I therefore believe both claims should be paid to Mrs P. 
Putting things right
Where I uphold a complaint (depending on when it was pursued and the date of the act 
being raised), I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial business of up to 
£350,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I consider appropriate.
Decision and award: 
I uphold the complaint. Claims must be paid under both policies as at February 2018, those 
being sums of £160,000 and £26,179 respectively.
Interest should be added to both claim payments but only from January 2020. It is worth 
noting that our awards of 8% interest are applied where a consumer may have been 
unreasonably deprived of their money; for example, if an insurer had sufficient evidence to 
meet a claim but failed to process a claim payment.
In Mrs Ps case, I believe the interest shouldnt run from the date of a valid claim effective 
February 2018, because Dr B only supplied his evidence upon request in September 2019. 
L&G was sent that evidence by the solicitor on 30 December 2019. It acknowledged receipt 
on 23 January 2020 and said it would consider the evidence. Interest ought to run from 23 January 2020, as by then it was clear that the medical evidence satisfies the terms and 
conditions for both policies.
As explained in my provisional findings, I do not order a refund of policy premiums to Mrs P, 
since unfortunately the relevant evidence needed to satisfy the claims has been received 
after the policies ended in August 2019.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I direct Legal and General Assurance Society Limited in respect of 
both terminal illness claims for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman