DRN-2573823
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that while he was abroad, Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt enable 
him to transfer £1,000,000 in a single transaction from his current account to an account with 
another bank.
What happened
Mr B was living in Belgium when he contacted Barclays ahead of receiving a payment of 
£1,000,000 into his Barclays account in the UK. He wanted to transfer this sum on to a 
different account with his investment bank. He was aware that there were restrictions on the 
amount he could transfer online but wanted to find out how he could carry out the transfer in 
a single transaction.
Mr B tried to speak to Barclays numerous times, but his calls were cut off and he didnt 
succeed in speaking to anyone. He then sent a number of secure messages to enquire how 
he could make the transfer, following which he received a call from Barclays.
 
Barclays told Mr B that the only way he could transfer that amount in a single transaction 
was by going into a branch, but he could transfer it in a series of payments using other 
channels such as online or telephone banking. 
 
Mr B transferred the funds in a series of online payments but was unhappy that Barclays 
didnt find an alternative as it wasnt possible for him to go to England to visit a branch, 
particularly during the Covid pandemic. Mr B asked Barclays to compensate him for the loss 
of interest due to the funds remaining in his current account, and for the time he spent trying 
to contact them. 
 
Barclays offered Mr B £30 in compensation for the time he spent on the phone, 
acknowledging the staffing impact of the Covid pandemic on its response times, but as it had 
followed its normal procedures, it didnt offer any compensation for the loss of interest 
claimed by Mr B.
Mr B was unhappy with this and complained to our service. Our investigator could see that 
Mr B had endured a frustrating time but explained that Barclays wasnt able to remove or 
change its limits as they exist to protect both bank and customer. Our investigator thought 
Barclays offer of £30 for the inconvenience of the phone calls was a fair and reasonable 
offer and didnt uphold the complaint.
 
Mr B has asked for the case to be referred to an Ombudsman so it has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr B was about to receive £1,000,000 from his savings bank into his Barclays current 
account. He then wanted to transfer this from his Barclays account to his investment account 
with another bank in one transaction, so he didnt miss out on interest that would be earned 
in the investment account. I can see from his secure messages that he was aware that 
wouldnt normally be able to do this online and wanted to know how he could do it.
After some communication difficulties, Barclays told Mr B that the only way that the funds 
could be transferred in a single transaction was if he visited a Barclays branch. As Mr B lives 
in Belgium this wasnt practicable, and with Covid restrictions in place, even less so. 
Barclays explained the alternative options, and Mr B followed its advice and transferred the 
funds in a series of payments over 10 days using online banking. 
Mr B thinks Barclays should have offered an alternative given the practical difficulties, but 
Barclays is entitled to set and apply its own policy. It said that it requires customers to visit 
the branch for high value transactions for security reasons and applies this rule in all cases. 
So while I understand Mr Bs frustration, I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably or unfairly 
in applying its normal processes and treating Mr B as it treats all of its customers.
 
Coming back to the communication difficulties Mr B encountered, he says he made multiple 
calls to Barclays. Barclays could see he had made calls but said it couldnt determine 
whether the calls failed due to issues within Barclays or other connection problems. I can 
see that Mr B then sent several secure messages in mid-November 2020 relating to his 
query and received a call shortly after this in which the payment options were explained. Mr 
B is unhappy that he had to try to contact Barclays so many times, and I can understand his 
frustration at this. Barclays acknowledged that its service levels were impacted by the Covid 
pandemic, as staff were working from home and there had been some connectivity issues, 
and longer wait times. It apologised for this and offered a goodwill payment of £30 as 
compensation, which I think is a fair and reasonable offer.
    
Mr B also says that he couldve arranged for his money to be transferred directly to his 
investment account if hed known earlier it wasnt an option to send it in full. I note however 
from the secure messages that Mr B was aware that limits normally applied. In addition, Mr 
B indicated to our investigator that he couldnt get hold of his savings bank either, so it 
wouldnt have made a difference to the options available to Mr B in any event. I cant fairly 
say that these issues mean Barclays shouldve offered Mr B any more compensation. 
Mr B rejected Barclays offer. But in line with what Ive just said, I cant fairly hold Barclays 
responsible for any loss of interest here, so I think £30 is a fair and reasonable offer which 
Mr B can still accept by contacting Barclays direct.
  
In summary, while I understand Mr Bs frustration at the inconvenience of Barclays 
processes, and the level of service he received as a long-standing customer, I think Barclays 
has acted fairly and reasonably and I wont be asking it to do anything more.
I know Mr B will be disappointed, but I hope he understands my reasons.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman