DRN-3233720
The complaint
Mrs S complains of loss of interest when Metro Bank PLC (Metro Bank) closed her accounts 
forcing her to move her money elsewhere .She would like compensation of £112 to cover the  
loss of interest.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision .
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I do appreciate the reason why Mrs S wanted maximise the interest on her savings 
and the sensitivity around what the savings were for. I have looked at Metro Banks 
terms and conditions and these do allow it to close accounts giving due notice which 
is what happened here. That was a commercial decision for it to take as it felt the 
relationship had broken down and it couldnt provide the service Mrs S wanted. I 
think Metro Bank acted fairly and in accordance with its terms and conditions. And I 
can reassure Mrs S  that I have seen no evidence that its decision was due to her 
ethnicity or disability.
There is some dispute over the £150 compensation Metro Bank has paid as Mrs S 
feels this was to cover problems with the cheques issued on closure not  the loss of 
interest she says she incurred (£112) in moving her account to ones that gave a 
lower interest rate. I have seen no evidence Metro Bank agreed to cover such loss 
of interest. From the correspondence I have seen the £150 compensation paid was 
for the inconvenience of the delay in cheques being sent and with one being  
wrongly made out. It also covered loss of interest incurred by this delay but not loss 
of interest from Mrs S investing the money elsewhere
I think it was reasonable for Metro Bank to pay the compensation that it did. 
However, I dont think its reasonable to expect Metro Bank to further compensate 
Mrs S for the loss of interest in her subsequent investments. Metro Bank was 
entitled to close her accounts, but I dont think it had any liability for any subsequent 
investment decisions Mrs S took.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman