DRN-3630177
The complaint
Mr B complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined his claim, cancelled his
policy and returned his premiums.
What happened
Mr B took out an annual multi trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by Great Lakes, over
the telephone. He travelled abroad and made a claim for medical expenses as a result of a
hospital admission. During the sale, Mr B declared his epilepsy but didnt declare a number
of other conditions including back pain, cholesterol levels, flu, drug allergies and an infection
amongst other things.
Great Lakes refused the claim for the following reasons:
1. Mr B breached lockdown laws and travelled from a tier 4 area
2. Mr Bs trip exceeded the trip limit of 50 days
3. Mr B misrepresented his medical history and failed to declare a number of medical
conditions. It said the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, but it refunded
his premiums and so in effect, has treated it as a careless misrepresentation. It said
had Mr B correctly declared his medical conditions, it never would have offered him a
policy.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld and his
claim paid. He didnt think the policy exclusions applied and also said Mr B didnt fail to take
reasonable care when answering questions about his medical history. And so he didnt think
there was a qualifying misrepresentation. He said he thought Mr B had an extremely limited
understanding of his own medical history.
Great Lakes didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans
decision. It didnt think Mr B took reasonable care and as it has already returned Mr Bs
premiums, it didnt think any further remedy was due.
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on 19 July 2022, which I adopt as my final decision, in which 
I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Great Lakes thinks Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation
when he didnt declare a number of medical questions during its sales call when he was
asked whether hed had any condition or symptoms not already discussed. Mr B said no but
his medical history shows he suffered from a number of conditions and symptoms other than
epilepsy.
Ive looked at the questions asked and I dont think Mr B took reasonable care based on the
number of conditions and symptoms Mr B failed to disclose.
Our investigator said he thought Mr B was confused and vulnerable based on the length of
his calls and his calls with our office. He also said he thought Mr B had an extremely limited
understanding of his own medical history.
I disagree with our investigator as there isnt any medical evidence to show that Mr B has an
extremely limited understanding of his medical history.
Having listened to the sales calls, Im satisfied that Mr B understood the questions he was
being asked. When he didnt understand something, he questioned the adviser until he did.
And he called back to clarify and question various things about his policy including the
monthly payments, the difference between the single trip and annual multi trip policy, and
questions about his cover for medical treatment.
Even if Mr B had simply forgotten to mention his conditions, this would still be a
misrepresentation.
Our investigator said he didnt think Mr B was a reasonable customer and quoted the
following from CIDRA:
(3) The standard of care required is that of a reasonable consumer: but this is
subject to subsections (4) and
(4) If the insurer was, or ought to have been, aware of any particular characteristic or
circumstances of the actual consumer, those are to be taken into account
Our investigator refers to the long sales calls and Mr Bs conversations with this office. But
Great Lakes wouldnt be aware of any circumstances or any particular characteristics when
he first called. Although the initial conversation was very long and Mr B checked the
questions again, there wasnt anything to indicate he didnt understand the questions about
his medical conditions. And he made it clear when he didnt understand something. So I
dont think its fair to assume that Mr B has a limited understanding of his medical history or
that Great Lakes would or should have reached this conclusion based on the initial sales
call.Our investigator also said Great Lakes should have requested a medical report before
putting cover in place instead of relying on the sales calls alone. But I disagree for the
reason already explained. Even if Great Lakes had requested a medical report, I dont think
this would make any difference to the outcome as Great Lakes wouldnt have offered Mr B a
policy based on its underwriting criteria. So Mr B would be in the same position  without
cover from Great Lakes.
I dont think Mr B took reasonable care when answering medical questions. Great Lakes has
shown that it wouldnt have offered a policy to Mr B had he accurately declared all his
conditions through its underwriting criteria. And it has already returned Mr Bs premiums, so
it has effectively treated his misrepresentation as careless.
This means Im satisfied Mr Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying one. And as Ive said
above, Great Lakes has treated Mr Bs misrepresentation as careless as he has received a
refund of his premiums.
Ive looked at the actions Great Lakes can take in accordance with CIDRA. What it has done
is in line with the remedies detailed in CIDRA. In light of all of this, I think this is the fair and
reasonable outcome to the complaint.
As I dont think Great Lakes would have offered Mr B a policy, I dont intend on making any
findings in relation to the other reasons for decline of the claim.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr B said he doesnt think he ever answered 
questions incorrectly and didnt know about his medication. He also said he owes money for 
the medical costs he had to pay. 
As Great Lakes obtained Mr Bs medical records which detail all his conditions and 
medication, it has demonstrated that Mr B didnt answer the questions correctly. And as he 
didnt answer the questions correctly, even if he had forgotten about his medication or other 
conditions, this would still be a misrepresentation. For that reason, I cant fairly ask Great 
Lakes to pay Mr Bs claim. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I wont be asking Great Lakes to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman