DRN-3446415
The complaint
L complains AXIS Specialty Europe SE unfairly declined their Commercial Property 
Insurance claim.
All references to AXIS also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Accidental Damage is defined in the policy as physical damage caused suddenly and 
accidentally, and not through wear and tear, breakdown or malfunction.
The policy also notes it excludes cover for damage caused by corrosion or damage 
caused by wear and tear, or anything that happens gradually.
L says the flue was damaged by a neighbours Paddleboard hitting it. L says this has 
consequentially caused further damage  such as rust and holes.
A gas engineer attended the property around four weeks after L says the event likely 
occurred.  In their report they noted rust inside the boiler casing, on the connection 
between the boiler and the flue. They also noted a small hole in the boiler casing and 
distress on the boilers flue both internally and externally.
In a further report the engineer said they saw a Paddleboard lying against the flue 
and the terminal was split and cracked. He said ingress of water into the boiler from 
the flue was evident but he couldnt make a reasonable judgment as to how long the 
flue had been damaged or how long the Paddleboard had been lying against it.
AXIS said the photos provided didnt show entry points where water could enter the 
boiler. From reviewing the photos, I agree that there doesnt appear to be obvious 
entry points into the boiler for ingress. And Ive not seen any other information that 
persuades me the internal corrosion or the hole in the boiler casing was caused 
solely as a result of the damaged flue. 
Rust is something that typically happens gradually, usually over an extended period. 
And I think its likely the water had been present within the boiler casing for some 
time. So Im not persuaded the paddleboard has caused all the damage reported.
As Ive set out above, corrosion and rust, along with damage that happens gradually, 
is excluded from cover. So considering everything, I think AXIS have acted 
reasonably in declining the claim.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman