DRN-3571623
The complaint
Mr P says NewDay Ltd (NewDay) irresponsibly lent to him. He has requested that the 
interest and late payment charges he paid on the account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card account provided by NewDay to Mr P. The account 
was opened in September 2017 with Mr P being given an initial credit limit of £450. This 
limit was increased three times; in June 2018 it rose to £1,450, in May 2018 it rose to 
£2,650 and it reached £3,400 in September 2021.  
Mr P says hes unhappy that NewDay gave him credit as it was unaffordable. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ps complaint and thought that NewDay ought to have 
realised that Mr P wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit on the account 
by the time it offered Mr P the increased credit limit in September 2021, when it increased 
Mr Ps credit limit to £3,400. NewDay has not made any further submission on the case. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending - including the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that NewDay should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought NewDay was reasonable in providing 
credit initially and through the credit increases except the last one in October 2018. Neither 
party has argued with our adjudicators view of this, so I dont propose to say much more 
about that. Except to say that the initial credit limit was modest and the payments for it 
were also relatively modest. And the evidence of how the account was being used didnt 
suggest that Mr P was in financial difficulty through the early credit increases.
Our adjudicator explained why NewDay shouldnt have provided Mr P with any additional 
credit in October 2018, when the credit limit was increased to £3,400. I agree with the 
adjudicators findings.  
Mr P was asked to provide us with copies of his bank statements covering the period he 
had the account. Sadly, Mr P has not been able to do that, neither has he been able to 
provide a copy of his credit report. So, talking about affordability isnt as easy as it may 
have been with those documents. 
However, as I mention above, there may come a point in the life of a credit account where 
the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the lending was 
unsustainable. Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ps case, based on the information 
Mr P and NewDay have given, I think that a point was reached by October 2018, when 
NewDay increased Mr Ps total credit limit to £3,400, which ought to have prompted 
NewDay to realise further credit as likely to be unaffordable or otherwise harmful to Mr P as 
he would not have been able to afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable 
manner, most likely. I explain why I say that.
Each time that Mr P had a credit increase he swiftly moved to make full use of it. In May 
2018 when NewDay increased Mr Ps credit limit to £2,650, the balance had been bubbling 
just under the previous credit limit of £1,450 ever since that limit had been given in January 
2018. So, in May 2018 as the credit limit increased from £1,450 to £2,650 the credit balance 
was £1,449.75. By the first month of the new credit limit of £2,650, the credit balance was 
£2,406.26. In the first year of the card account, Mr Ps credit limit had increased nearly six 
times the original limit and Mr P was using it all. The pattern of lending seemed to show that 
the higher the credit limit, the higher Mr P made his balance. And Mr Ps unsecured debt 
with other providers had also risen to £12,954, from £359 in the January of that same year.
This pattern of lending was evident throughout Mr Ps credit account with NewDay. But by 
October 2018 there was evidence that Mr P was losing control of his financial situation. The 
high usage of his credit limits had led to three consecutive months in which he was charged 
overlimit fees on the account. NewDay could have chosen to intervene in a manner 
designed to help Mr P regain control of his account. Instead they chose to increase his credit 
limit again, this time to £3,400. Subsequently, the balance grew and Mr P was unable to 
make much progress in reducing the balance when it had grown, and he went into arrears. 
So, it is my view that NewDay should reasonably have seen that further lending was likely 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, and it shouldnt have further increased Mr Ps credit 
limit in October 2018 to £3,400. So, given the particular circumstances of Mr Ps case, based on the information Mr P and 
NewDay have given, I nevertheless think that a point was reached by 10 October 2018, 
when NewDay increased Mr Ps total credit limit to £3,400, which ought to have prompted 
NewDay to realise further credit would most likely be unaffordable or otherwise harmful to 
Mr P. I say this because the way Mr P had managed his account until that point would 
have shown NewDay that Mr P would not find it easy to repay a balance that rose 
anywhere near the new credit limit, whilst at the same time having to meet his daily living 
expenses. I also think there was a significant risk that further increases to his credit limits 
could have led to his indebtedness increasing unsustainably, such that he had no funds 
available to meet his regular outgoings. 
It follows that I think that Mr P lost out because NewDay provided him with further credit 
from 10 Octrober 2018 onwards. In my view, NewDays actions unfairly prolonged Mr Ps 
indebtedness by allowing him to use credit he couldnt afford over an extended period of 
time and the interest being added would only have the effect of putting him into further debt. 
It follows that NewDay should put things right.
Putting things right
As I dont think NewDay should have increased Mr Ps credit limit to £3,400 on 10 October 
2018, I dont think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which 
exceeded the previous limit of £2,650. However, Mr P has had the benefit of all the money 
he spent on the account, so I think he should pay this back. NewDay should:
Rework Mr Ps account to ensure that from 10 October 2018 onwards interest 
is only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £2,650, including any buy 
now pay later interest, (being the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the 
fact that no further credit limit increases should have been provided. All late 
payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made NewDay should contact Mr P to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for these accounts. Once Mr P has repaid the outstanding 
balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file 
from 10 October 2018 onwards for each account. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr P, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments 
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. NewDay 
should also remove any adverse information from Mr Ps credit file from 10 
October 2018 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mr Ps complaint. NewDay Ltd should put 
things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman