DRN-3368379
The complaint
Mr A complains that Trading 212 UK Limited (Trading 212) closed his account at a loss. He 
also complains that he couldnt cancel an order and that one of his orders took too long to 
execute.
What happened
Mr A had an investment account and a trading account with Trading 212. In January 2021 he 
placed an order to purchase stock in Company O. Mr A complains that there were delays in 
executing this order. Mr A also complained that he was unable to cancel a different order he 
placed despite clicking the cancel button. 
In February 2021 Trading 212 sent Mr A notice that it intended to close his accounts. Mr A 
complained as it didnt provide a reason and his account was at a loss when he received this 
notice.
Our Investigator didnt feel the complaint should be upheld. She said the following:
- The order Mr A placed in Company O was for highly illiquid micro-cap stock, so it 
wasnt unreasonable that it took 12 minutes to be executed.
- When Mr A tried to cancel an order he wasnt able to because it had already been 
accepted. As the brokers system was experiencing some issues it wasnt executed 
until this had been resolved. But Trading 212 hadnt made an error in not allowing Mr 
A to cancel his order.
- Trading 212 issued notice to close Mr As accounts in line with the terms that he had 
agreed to. It didnt need to give a reason and it hadnt acted unfairly.
Mr A disagreed with our Investigators opinion and felt hed been treated unfairly by Trading 
212. He asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the Investigator for similar reasons. Ill 
explain why.
Delay to execute order
Mr A placed an order in Company O at 21:45 on 20 January 2021. This was 15 minutes prior 
to the market closing and on a day where there was dramatic movement after Company O 
had announced a merger. The order took 12 minutes to complete. I understand this may 
have felt like a long period of time, but the order was for micro-cap stock  which is 
inherently volatile - during a period where there was dramatic market movement. Trading 
212s terms specifically refer to trades like this. In clause 10.18 it says:
You accept that some small and micro-cap shares trade on highly illiquid markets, or by 
way of an auction or other non-standard bidding process, which may cause delays in 
executing Orders in such financial instruments. In these circumstances you agree that 
Trading 212 will process your Order as soon as is reasonably possible. Trading 212 will not 
be liable for any financial losses, perceived or actual, that you may suffer as a result of these 
delays.
Trading 212 has shown price and trading history for Company O throughout January 2021. 
Im satisfied that it processed Mr As order as soon as is reasonably possible in the 
circumstances and that it didnt cause any unnecessary delay in executing the order.
Inability to cancel a trade
Mr A complains that after he placed an order he was unable to cancel it when it was still 
showing as pending. Trading 212 has explained that its broker was experiencing some 
technical issues which meant it couldnt confirm execution of trades for some time. I 
understand Mr A wanted to cancel his trade after it was showing as pending for some time 
but I dont think its unreasonable that he wasnt able to do so.
Mr A had placed his trade, and whilst there was a delay in confirming, the trade was 
executed in line with his instructions. Trading 212 provides an execution only service  and 
its not normally possible for a consumer to cancel an order whilst waiting for it to be 
completed once its already been accepted. In this case, Mr A placed an order, and whilst 
the brokers system issues meant there was a delay to executing the order  it was in fact 
executed in line with Mr As instructions.
Mr As agreement with Trading 212 covers these scenarios and specifically refers to a risk of 
disruption due to the systems being used. The agreement also says that once an order is 
accepted it cannot be amended or cancelled unless, prior to execution, Trading 212 has 
confirmed that it has had to cancel it. Mr As order was placed and went to the broker to 
carry out the instructions  so I dont think it was unreasonable or unfair that Mr A couldnt 
then cancel it. Im persuaded the order was executed in line with his instructions within the 
market session. So, I dont think Trading 212 has acted unfairly here.
Closure of account
Trading 212 gave Mr A notice in February 2021 that it was closing his accounts. I appreciate 
that it didnt give Mr A any reasons but it doesnt have to. The agreement between Mr A and 
Trading 212 allows either of them to terminate the agreement provided the right notice was 
given. In this case I can see Trading 212 gave Mr A 14 days notice to close his CFD trading 
account and 30 days notice to close his investment account. This is in line with the terms.
Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Trading 212 has acted reasonably in closing Mr 
As accounts and gave him sufficient notice. I can see that Trading 212 extended the notice 
period for Mr As investment account to enable him to sell some holdings at a better price  
mitigating his potential losses. Whilst Trading 212 didnt have to do this, I think it acted fairly 
in assisting Mr A with this.
I do appreciate that Mr A is unhappy that Trading 212 chose to terminate his accounts when 
he was at a loss, rather than at a gain. But Im satisfied Trading 212 hasnt acted incorrectly 
in doing so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman