DRN-3305750
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain about their home insurer, Fairmead Insurance Limiteds poor 
handling of their claims for escapes of water and delays and the impact this has had on Mrs 
C and her family. 
What happened
Mrs Cs home suffered an escape of water and she claimed to Fairmead in August 2020. 
She used her home emergency cover and then Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster who 
visited Mrs Cs home ten days later. The loss adjuster found there were two separate leaks. 
Mrs C then made a second claim under her policy but has been dissatisfied with the claims 
handling service from Fairmead and its agents.
Fairmead said Mrs C wanted to arrange the repairs and its loss adjuster requested quotes to 
determine the cash settlement. It said its offer was rejected and a further review of the 
damage was arranged. Mrs C complained to Fairmead about the time her claim was taking, 
duplication of work by Fairmeads agents and the inadequacy of its offer of settlement. 
Mrs C said it took six months of stress and terrible living conditions before the loss adjuster 
made a final offer to settle the claim. She was recovering from serious illness and said the 
delay impacted her mental health  particularly during the covid pandemic when they had to 
be at home more. Mrs C said the offer isnt adequate to restore her home to its pre-damaged 
state or to replace her contents. She said they have been without a stair carpet; the ceilings 
and floors are damaged in several rooms; the kitchen and furniture are damaged. 
Mrs C had been unwell and moved in with a relative, returning home in September 2020. 
Fairmead offered a revised cash settlement in October and said Mrs C then provided 
quotations which were considerably different from its offer and it proposed a visit to examine 
the differences. Fairmead said Mrs C had received a less than desired level of service and 
paid her £150 compensation, but said it still needed to validate her quotations for the repairs.
Mrs C referred her complaint to us and said Fairmead hadnt sent her reports on the damage 
and missed damage in its report. Fairmead emailed copies of the reports to her in November 
2020 after it had failed to grant access to its online portal. Fairmead said it received Mrs Cs 
list of damaged contents in February 2021 and made her a settlement offer. It said Mrs C 
sent an additional list of contents in March 2021 and it made a revised offer the same month. 
In April 2021 the loss adjuster confirmed Fairmeads offer in respect of the kitchen, diner, 
lounge and hall, less the excesses. Offers were also forwarded to Mrs C concerning her 
damaged contents. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said Fairmead sent Mrs C 
a form for her damaged contents in August 2020, which she didnt return until February 2021 
despite being chased up. She said Fairmead then made an offer in good time and there was 
no delay due to any items that had to be added to the loss adjusters reports at a later date.
The investigator said that although one visit by Fairmeads agents was unnecessary, this 
was when Mrs C was away from home. Once shed returned the loss adjuster said it tried 
not to arrange physical visits only an online meeting in October 2020. The loss adjuster 
thought that Mrs Cs quotes for the building work were considerably in excess of the amount 
for which it could do the work and it wanted another visit, which the investigator said was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
The investigator said Fairmeads liability is limited to the costed schedule of works it sent 
Mrs C in October 2020. She said the loss adjuster chased a response from Mrs C and she 
disputed the settlement as she felt prices had increased due to the pandemic. She said 
Fairmeads liability is how much it can have the work carried out for, not how much it will
cost Mrs C to complete the work. And the loss adjuster had confirmed the cost of the work 
was unchanged. The investigator thought the sum that Fairmead offered is reasonable.
Mrs C disagreed with the investigator. She said her complaint shouldnt fail just because of 
the delay in returning the form listing her contents claim. Mrs C said Fairmead hasnt 
responded to any recent emails sent through its system. Mrs C requested an ombudsman 
review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
References to Fairmead include its agents and references to Mrs C include her family and 
representative. 
I sympathise with Mrs C for the prolonged ill-health that she has suffered.
It is inherent within large-scale damage claims that multiple parties will be involved on behalf 
of the insurer and arrangements can be uncertain and develop through the claim. And 
policyholders may have to endure several months of disruption and dislocation before 
repairs can begin. There are generally (as here) many contacts and communications 
between the parties as the claim progresses.
My role is to look carefully at the handling of a claim to see if there has been avoidable 
stress and delay caused to the policyholder. From what Ive seen, each of Fairmeads 
agents carried out different roles in the claim, and each was necessary to bring Mrs Cs 
home back to a condition in which it could be repaired. 
The six months of delay Mrs C has raised lasted from August 2020 to February 2021 when a 
final offer of settlement for her claim was made on behalf of Fairmead. During this period 
Fairmead asked Mrs C for quotes for the repairs and awaited the return of the form listing 
her damaged contents. Its understandable that Mrs C may have been overwhelmed with the 
claim during her recovery from serious ill health, but Ive seen that Fairmead made several 
efforts to get the form returned and explained its importance.
Ive seen the form and it seems to be self-explanatory. I havent found that Fairmead has 
added to this delay as when it received the list of damaged contents from Mrs C in February 
2021 it made an offer of settlement later the same month, and again following an additional 
list of contents sent in by Mrs C in March 2021.
Mrs C says her complaint shouldnt fail just because of the delay in returning the form listing 
her contents. However, this held the claim up and Fairmead couldnt be expected to finalise 
its cash offer without this information. Fairmead said that notwithstanding this it needed to validate her quotations for the repairs. Its reasonable for an insurer to validate quotes for 
repairs, particularly where they differ in tasks or amounts from those of its own experts.
I can well understand Mrs C wanted her claim settled fairly and quickly so her home could be 
restored to its pre-damage state and the contents replaced. It certainly wasnt restored when 
she moved back home in September 2020, but she hadnt then provided Fairmead with a 
quote for the repairs. Fairmead still needed to assess a quote and this took time, but during 
this period Mrs C hadnt sent the list of her damaged contents and so the claim couldnt be 
finalised in any event. I think this meant that Fairmead werent delaying the resolution of the 
claim, and so I dont think it would be fair to hold them liable for the time it took. 
Mrs C said she should be compensated for the time her family couldnt live in their home and 
had to stay with relatives. Fairmead acknowledged that its service had been less than 
desired, but I havent found that the handling of her claim has been terrible, as she has said. 
There was an unnecessary visit by Fairmeads agents, and I can understand that Mrs C was 
anxious that these should be reduced. But it was important for Fairmead to assess the 
damage and the cost of repairs particularly as there was a disparity in its costing of the work, 
and Mrs Cs quote.  
 
I have thought about the £150 compensation Fairmead has paid Mrs C for aspects of poor 
service that she received. Fairmead was aware of the vulnerable position that Mrs C was in 
and why it was important that her claims were resolved promptly. Although I havent found 
that it caused delay there were a great number of people in contact with Mrs C which caused 
confusion and lacked continuity and she was contacted when her family asked for that not to 
happen. 
Fairmeads loss adjuster couldnt grant Mrs C access to its portal which increased phone 
and email contact and delayed reports and policy documents. And there was an 
unnecessary visit. All-in-all I think the £150 compensation from Fairmead is about right for 
aspects of poor service it provided to Mrs C. 
Im aware that Mrs C thought the cash settlement put forward by Fairmead wasnt sufficient 
for the repairs, but she has accepted a slightly reduced amount for the contents claim. 
Fairmead is only responsible for restoring a property to its pre-damaged state and it 
considered the quote that she provided to go beyond this. Additionally, it doesnt have to pay 
more than it would cost it to do the work. Insurers can often get work done more cheaply 
than consumers. 
Mrs C has provided details about where she feels the scope of works put forward by 
Fairmead falls short. However, we arent in a position to provide expert guidance as to the 
correct amount of a settlement and as this remains an issue, I recommend that Mrs C gets 
an expert report on the damage and provides this with costings to Fairmead. Should 
Fairmead agree with the findings of such a report, that will guide the settlement of the claim 
and Fairmead should reimburse Mrs C for the cost of the report. Should Fairmead disagree 
with the findings it would be open to Mrs C to bring a further complaint about this to 
Fairmead and ultimately our service if she wishes.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman