DRN-1752822
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited paid a lower sum than he was 
expecting after he made a claim under his employers critical illness insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B has the benefit of critical illness cover through his employers group critical illness 
insurance policy. He joined the scheme in January 2017; the critical illness benefit was 
£25,000. In January 2018 Mr B opted to increase the benefit to £75,000. He increased it 
again in January 2019 to £125,000.
In late 2018 Mr B asked Aviva to consider a claim for Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA). It initially 
declined the claim but Aviva accepted that Mr B met the policy definition of RA in 
March 2019. It decided that Mr B was only entitled to a benefit of £25,000 as it believed hed 
started having symptoms before he increased the policy benefit in January 2018. For this 
reason, Aviva said the associated condition clause applied, meaning the benefit was limited 
to £25,000.
Mr B complained. He believed Aviva had relied upon a mistake in a letter from his 
consultant, Dr K, about when he started experiencing symptoms of RA in his hands. He 
provided evidence from Dr K stating that Mr B had only started experiencing symptoms in his 
hands around two months before their consultation in September 2018. He also provided 
evidence from his physiotherapist who had treated him throughout 2016 and 2017 for 
problems with his toes and knees, who said at no time before August 2018 had Mr B 
complained about any issues in his hands.
Aviva didnt change its decision. It said the handwritten notes from the consultation 
supported that Mr B had told Dr K hed started experiencing pain in his hands two years 
before September 2018.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. He thought Avivas decision was unfair as there 
wasnt any other medical evidence that showed hed had symptoms of RA in his hands 
before 2018. Mr B provided new evidence from his consultant, which he felt clarified the 
comments about when his symptoms started. He believed Aviva ought to pay £75,000 rather 
than £25,000 as he hadnt experienced any symptoms before he increased the benefit in 
January 2018.
Our investigator put this evidence forward to Aviva, explaining that he thought the higher 
benefit of £75,000 should be paid. He thought Dr K had now adequately explained why any 
pain Mr B had experienced in 2016/2017 wasnt associated with his diagnosis of RA in his 
hands. He also didnt think the other medical evidence throughout this time showed that 
Mr B had actually started having any symptoms before late 2018.
Aviva disagreed and asked for a final decision. It said it still felt the handwritten notes were 
more compelling as they showed what Mr B had told Dr K at the time. It also didnt think Dr K 
had provided a reasonable other explanation for the hand pain felt by Mr B two years before 
the consultation in September 2018.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. Ill 
explain why.
The policy terms say:
In respect of increases in lump sum benefit we will not pay the amount of the increase if 
the member or child has had an associated condition prior to the date that increase takes 
effect
Associated condition is defined as follows:
Any symptom, condition, illness, injury, disease or treatment which is either;
recognised by reasonable specialist medical opinion to be related to the occurrence 
of a critical illness or operation, or
is listed in the associated conditions column of the critical illness/operation table 
which begins on page 4.
Aviva believes that this clause applies because of the following information provided:
a letter from Dr K dated 8 September 2018 in which she stated, Over the last two 
years [Mr B] has also had pain over the hands, particularly the thumbs, MCPs and 
PIP joints. He describes swelling of the MCP joints.
The handwritten notes from this consultation with Dr K, which said, at same time as 
toes a couple of years ago hands painful but over last couple of months both hands 
very painful.
The claim form completed by Dr K in November 2018 in which she said Mr Bs 
symptoms had first started, approximately two years ago but worsened in last 2-3 
months. 
Overall, Aviva feels this is sufficient to demonstrate that Mr B had first started experiencing 
symptoms of RA in his hands around September 2016. As this was before he increased his 
benefit to £75,000, it considers the correct benefit of £25,000 has been paid.
Ive considered this evidence very carefully, together with the medical records provided, the 
letter sent by Mr Bs physiotherapist and the additional letters Dr K has written in support of 
Mr Bs claim. Having done so, Im not persuaded that the associated conditions clause 
applies in respect of the benefit increase in January 2018. So, I think Aviva should pay the 
additional sum of £50,000 to Mr B in settlement of his claim.
I say this because it seems to me that the information in Dr Ks letter of 8 September 2018 
and the claim form she completed isnt an accurate reflection of the facts. Like Aviva, I think 
the handwritten notes are more compelling, which, in my view point to Mr B describing an 
instance of pain in his hands around the same time he was experiencing pain in his toes. 
I dont think the handwritten note supports that Mr B had been experiencing pain in his 
hands over the last two years leading up to the consultation in September 2018.
If Mr B had been experiencing pain in his hands for two years before seeing Dr K in 
September 2018, I wouldve expected there to be some contemporaneous reference to this in his medical records. Ive reviewed the medical records provided and its clear to me that 
Mr B has sought medical attention quite frequently for a range of problems. Given his 
extensive contact with medical practitioners during this time, it seems unlikely to me that 
Mr B wouldnt have mentioned symptoms in his hands, even in passing.
The only reference to any problem in Mr Bs hands that Ive seen in his medical records is an 
entry dated 20 September 2016 which refers to triggering in two of his fingers, which had 
started after hed been using an angle grinder. Mr B discussed his toes in the same 
appointment, which prompted his referral to the physiotherapist. This appears to have been 
a one-off incident as it hasnt been mentioned again thereafter. And Mr Bs physiotherapist 
has confirmed in his letter of 15 July 2019 that Mr B hadnt mentioned any issues with his 
hands until August 2018.
Based on all of the evidence Ive seen, I think the only possible incident Dr K couldve been 
referring to in her consultation note was Mr B experiencing triggering in his fingers in 
September 2016. However, in order for the associated condition clause to apply to the 
increase of benefit in January 2018, this wouldve had to have been related to Mr Bs RA.
Dr K wrote to our service on 2 April 2020 to explain that in her opinion, Mr B hadnt 
experienced symptoms of RA two years prior to their meeting in September 2018. She said: 
I can confirm that the rapidity that [Mr Bs] Rheumatoid Arthritis has developed has been 
consistent with this much more recent presentation. 
My handwritten notes state at the same time as the toes couple of years ago hands painful. 
I can confirm that this would not relate to his acute presentation with Rheumatoid Arthritis. I 
will always ask patients directly about any preceding joint pain in order to make a judgement 
whether this could have been going on for a longer time. I did not consider this to be related 
to his RA as there was a very different description of inflammatory symptoms related to the 
2-3 months before I saw him.
I appreciate that Avivas CMO feels that the instance of pain noted to have happened two 
years before this must have been a symptom of the RA. It also says there is no other 
reasonable explanation for this pain. However, as Mr Bs treating consultant and a leading 
specialist in this field, I find her evidence to be more persuasive. And, as Ive said above, 
I think its possible Mr B was referring to the episode of triggering in his fingers in September 
2016 as it is the only documented problem that fits the timeframe.
In light of the above, Im not persuaded that Aviva has shown Mr B experienced symptoms 
of RA before January 2018. So, I think Aviva should pay Mr B the remaining amount owed to 
him based on the critical illness benefit being £75,000.
Im not awarding interest or compensation on top of this as I dont think Aviva couldve 
reasonably been expected to pay the higher sum before Dr K provided her most recent 
letter. 
Putting things right
Aviva should settle Mr Bs claim for critical illness benefit for £75,000, less the sum already 
paid to him.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should settle Mr Bs claim for critical illness benefit based 
on the sum assured of £75,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman