DRN-3859597
Complaint
Ms R has complained about personal loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to her. She says that the loans were unaffordable and so shouldnt have 
been provided to her.
Background
Everyday Loans initially provided Ms R with a first loan for £2,500.00 in February 2008. This 
loan was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just over £165. However, the loan 
was repaid in full with some of the proceeds from loan 2, which was provided in October 
2008. Loan 2 was for £3,000.00 and was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just 
under £195.
However, loan 2 was repaid in full with some of the proceeds from loan 3, which was 
provided in July 2009. Loan 3 was for £4,000.00 and was due to be repaid in 48 monthly 
instalments of just over £250. Everyday Loans then provided Ms R with a final loan for 
£5,000.00 in February 2019. This loan was due to be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of just 
over £235. 
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Rs complaint and he thought Everyday Loans didnt 
do anything wrong when providing loans 1 and 2. But he also that Everyday Loans ought to 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided Ms R with loans 3 and 4. So he thought that   
Ms Rs complaint should be partially upheld. 
Ms R didnt disagree with our adjudicators assessment but Everyday Loans didnt agree 
with the outcome on loans 3 and 4. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
As the parties appear to be in agreement on the outcome reached for loans 1 and 2, this 
decision on only looking at whether Everyday Loans should have provided Ms R with loans 3 
and 4.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Rs complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Ms Rs complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out reasonable checks to be able to understand 
whether Ms R could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before loan 3 was provided. The results of which showed that Ms R was significantly 
indebted and that a significant proportion of her monthly income going towards credit 
repayments. And while theres some suggestion this loan might have been for debt 
consolidation, its unclear to me how or what was going to be consolidated and more 
crucially how this was going to improve Ms Rs financial position  especially bearing in mind 
this loan was Ms Rs third in short period of time and her overall indebtedness was growing.
I accept that loan 4 was provided a over a decade after loan 3. However, this needs to be 
considered in the context that Ms R ran into difficulty repaying loan 3 and this meant that she 
didnt repay what she owed until a number of years later. So the gap in borrowing wasnt 
anywhere near as long as a decade. 
Its also worth noting that Ms Rs repayments towards her existing credit commitments still 
took up a significant portion of her monthly income, at the time of loan 4, even though shed 
been in a debt management plan and this was supposed to have improved her position.     
Im also mindful that Everyday Loans relied on the use of average data to calculate Ms Rs 
living expenses. This is despite the fact that Ms Rs difficulty repaying loan 3 as well as other 
information on her credit file showed she didnt fit the profile of the average borrower. Finally, 
Everyday Loans also chose to advance Ms R a larger amount, for loan 4, even though shed 
had proven unable to repay a lower amount for loan 3 as contractually agreed. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Ms R has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time of loans 3 and 4. And while its possible Ms Rs financial 
position wasnt as a result of financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of 
cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 
Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Ms Rs version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Ms Rs existing financial position meant that she was 
always unlikely to be able to afford the payments to loans 2 and 3, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And Im satisfied that, bearing in mind everything, reasonable and 
proportionate checks would more like than not have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt 
have provided loans 3 and 4 to Ms R. As Everyday Loans provided Ms R with loans 3 and 4, 
notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Ms R ended up paying interest, fees and charges on loans she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Ms R lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Ms R
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Ms R by:refunding all interest, fees and charges (including any ancillary insurance taken out) 
Ms R paid as a result of loans 3 and 4;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Ms R to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Ms Rs credit file as a result of loans 
3 and 4. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Ms R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Rs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman