DRN-4344136
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wouldnt refund money she lost in 
an investment scam.
What happened
Mrs T sadly passed way after putting her complaint to Barclays via a third-party claims firm. 
After that, Mrs T is represented by her daughter, but I will refer to the late Mrs T as the 
complainant. 
What Mrs T says:
Mrs T was cold called in 2018 by someone purporting to be an investment advisor. She was 
encouraged to invest in bonds with a firm (which I will call A). A was said to be investing in 
property and was said to be generating cash immediately.  Mrs T agreed to invest and 
made two payments totalling £25,000 as follows:
Date Payment type/Beneficiary Amount
2 November 2018 Online banking/ payment service provider £10,000
3 November 2018 Online banking/ payment service provider £15,000
Mrs T received a bond certificate for £25,000 dated 5 November 2018.
Mrs T argues that she was vulnerable when the payment was made - she was then aged 89. 
She said that A was a scam operation and had raised funds from investors, but they werent 
used for the purposes they promised. A therefore defrauded hundreds of people.
She said Barclays shouldve stopped the payments and ask questions. If they had, the 
payments would likely have not been made and her losses avoided. Mrs T complained to 
Barclays early in 2023. She said Barclays should refund the money, plus 8% per annum 
interest.
What Barclays said:
Barclays said the payments were made for a bad investment and not a scam. Mrs T had 
been introduced to A by an intermediary and was advised by email to take time to 
understand the investment opportunity in its entirety. The payments were made to a 
payment service provider and not to A directly, but Mrs T went ahead. The transactions were 
not out of character with the way in which Mrs T used her account, and so Barclays couldnt 
be expected to have stopped the payments. Barclays didnt refund any money.
Our investigation so far:
Mrs T brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said it was likely the 
funds were sent onto A by the payment service provider. He couldnt be certain whether A 
was a scam or a genuine investment company. But in either case, he could see that the 
payments werent out of line with Mrs Ts normal use of her account  so he could see why 
Barclays didnt stop them. Even if they had, he could see that A seemed (at that time) to be 
a credible, trading investment company, and therefore it was likely that Mrs T wouldve gone 
ahead anyway.
He couldnt see that Barclays tried to recover the money  given the passage of time this 
was reasonable.
Mrs T didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint  and so it has 
come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs T has lost money. Its not in question that she authorised and 
consented to the payments in this case. So although Mrs T didnt intend for the money to go 
to a scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it came into effect in May 2019  after the payments in 
question.
I looked at what happened to A. It was a trading company when Mrs T made the payment in
November 2018  as A lodged a confirmation statement at Companies House in August
2017. And filed its annual accounts for the year ended 28 February 2018. It was only later
when A went into difficulty  as it went into administration in May 2020. 
But - this decision does not hinge on the status of A at the time i.e. whether it was a scam 
operation, or a viable investment. I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs T when she made the payments, or whether it should 
have done more than it did. I have considered the position carefully.
In their submissions to us, Barclays advised that the two payments in question were made 
by Mrs Ts daughter under her Power of Attorney (POA), but that doesnt affect this decision.
The important matter here is whether these were payments that Barclays might reasonably 
have considered unusual, and therefore whether they shouldve held or stopped the 
payments and contacted Mrs T (or her daughter) about them. 
I looked at Mrs Ts account history with Barclays. And I dont think the payments were 
unusual for her. There were fairly frequent, large online payments. For example I can see:
 £4,273.50 to £4,347.50  regular monthly payments each month up to June 2018.
June 2018 - £13,092, £3,155, £3,000.
July 2018 - £11,815.
August 2018 - £385,039, £11,250.
September 2018 - £10,000, £10,000.
October 2018 - £2,370, £2,400, £1,570, £2,400, £3,000.
Theres a balance to be struck: Barclays has obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and 
to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every transaction as this 
would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. In this case, the disputed 
payments were not out of line with how Mrs T normally used her account. Therefore, I think 
Barclays acted reasonably in processing the payments, and not contacting Mrs T(or her 
daughter) about them.
Therefore, I dont think Barclays can be held to be reasonably liable for the payments made.
Recovery:
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. I looked at whether Barclays took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost funds. And here, because they werent 
advised about the disputed payments until early in 2023, sufficient time had passed to 
suggest there was little point in trying to recover payments that were made in November 
2018  and so Barclays took no action. Under the circumstances I think that was a 
reasonable thing to do.
Mrs T lost a lot of money - and when she was vulnerable. But having looked at the 
circumstances of this complaint, Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2023.
 Martin Lord
Ombudsman