DRN-2734582
The complaint
Ms N complains about problems and delays obtaining a replacement debit card from
Metro Bank PLC.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said: 
Ms N has told us that she her debit card was cancelled by Metro after she found a
transaction on her account that she didnt recognise. On 6 July 2020 Ms N visited a Metro
branch to get a replacement But the machine used to print cards wasnt working so a
replacement was ordered via the post. Metro says it sent the replacement to Ms N on
15 July 2020.
On 30 July 2020 Ms N called Metro as she hadnt received her replacement debit card. Ms N
complained about the delay and Metro responded on 31 July 2020. Metro apologised and
paid Ms N £50 for the inconvenience caused. Metro ordered another replacement to be sent
on 30 July 2020.
Ms N has told us that it she didnt receive the second replacement debit card Metro sent
either. Ms N called Metro again on 10 August 2020 and has told us she explained she still
hadnt received a replacement. Metros notes show its complaint handler made an enquiry
on 11 August 2020 as Ms N explained she hadnt received any replacements. Ms N says
she didnt hear back from Metro or receive either of the replacement cards it sent.
Ms N referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Metro
issued another replacement card to Ms N in January 2021 and she has confirmed it was
received. Ms N has told us this was the first replacement card she received.
The investigator thought Metro had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do
anything else. Ms N asked to appeal and said she didnt feel the £50 was fair as she without
a debit card for around six months, despite telling Metro about the problem. As Ms N asked
to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.  
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at systems information and can see that in July 2020 Metro appears to have sent
replacements to Ms N as it claims. I dont know why they werent received, but the systems
information provided shows Metro took the necessary steps to send replacement debit
cards.
Ive looked at Ms Ns statements and its clear no card transactions were made after the
original debit card was blocked. Im satisfied that shows Ms N didnt receive either of the
replacement debit cards.
Metro recently provided contact notes that show Ms N called on 10 August 2020. Metros
notes show that, on 11 August 2020, the complaints team made enquiries within the
business. The notes say two replacements had already been sent, but nothing further
appears to have occurred from this point. I cant see anything that shows Metro went back to
Ms N to check whether its replacement card, sent on 30 July 2020, had subsequently been
received. Given the nature of Ms Ns complaint, I think thats a step Metro shouldve taken.
Metro says Ms N didnt contact it again about the replacement card, but at that point she
referred the matter to this service. And Ms N had already told Metro no replacement was
received when she called on 10 August 2020. When we requested a complaint file, Metro
sent Ms N another replacement card in January 2021. Ms N has confirmed this was
received. But I think Metro shouldve done more to respond to Ms N after she contacted it on
10 August 2020 to say she hadnt received either of the replacements sent.
The statements show Ms N doesnt appear to use this account for day to day spending and I
can see she retained the ability to transfer funds in and out during the period in question.
But, I agree with Ms N that the £50 Metro paid when it responded to her complaint doesnt
reflect the inconvenience of being without a debit card for around six months. And, as Ive
said above, I think Metro shouldve done more to check Ms N had a working card after her
call on 10 August 2020. As a result, I intend to uphold Ms Ns complaint and increase the
£50 award by a further £50 taking the total settlement to £100 for the distress and
inconvenience caused. In my view, that figure more fairly reflects the impact of what
happened on Ms N.
I asked Ms N and Metro to respond with any comments or new information they wanted me 
to take into account before I made my final decision. Neither party responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision and provided new information for me 
to consider, I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached. I still think the fairest 
approach is to uphold Ms Ns complaint, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Metro Bank PLC to pay Ms N a total of 
£100 (less any compensation already paid).   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman