DRN-4516482
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund the money it lost when it 
was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In early 2023, one of Rs employees received an email which appeared to be from one of Rs 
directors. The email asked what the cut-off time for making a same-day payment was and, 
after the employee replied, the director then asked for a payment to be made from Rs 
company account. As the employee thought the email was from one of Rs genuine 
directors, they made the payment of £5,000 to the account details the director gave.
Unfortunately, we now know the emails werent coming from the genuine director, but were 
coming from a scammer. The scam was uncovered when the employee spoke to the 
genuine director a few days later, and R then reported the payment to Metro and asked it to 
refund the money it had lost.
Metro investigated but said it felt it had shown R an effective warning before it made the 
payment and that R hadnt taken reasonable steps to check the payment was genuine. So it 
didnt agree to refund the money R had lost. R wasnt satisfied with Metros response, so 
referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They though R had a reasonable basis for 
belief when making the payment, and didnt agree the warning Metro had shown was 
effective. So they thought Metro should refund the money R had lost, in full. Metro didnt 
agree with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim 
of authorised push payment scams, like the one R fell victim to, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did R ignore an effective warning in relation to the payment?
The CRM code says that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand what 
actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. And it 
says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific.
Metro has sent us a copy of the warning it says R was shown before it made the payment, 
which said:
Payment for a service
If youre paying for a service, even from someone youve used before, double check the 
payment information has come from them and not a fraudster.
Ways to do this:
Contact them in a different way than they contacted you. For example, if they email 
you, give them a call back instead of replying online.
We also recommend keeping an eye on their phone numbers and email addresses to 
make sure theyre always the same.
Dont make this payment unless you know your money is going to the right place.
But while this warning does mention checking the payment information has come from the 
person youre trying to pay, I dont think its detailed enough about what this kind of scam 
might look or feel like. I dont think it does enough to help a customer understand the 
warning signs that could suggest they were the victim of a scam, or to highlight the 
seriousness of the possible consequences of sending money to a scammer.
I also dont think the appearance of the warning is striking enough to catch a customers 
attention, as the colours and layout used look like part of the normal payment process and 
the ticks used for the bullet points suggest something positive  rather than the potential 
negative consequences of falling victim to a scam.
So I dont think the warning R was shown was specific or impactful enough to be effective in 
its circumstances. And so I dont think Metro has established that R ignored an effective 
warning in relation to the payment.
Did R have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
R has said the employee who received the emails from the scammer often makes payments 
on its behalf, and so it wasnt unusual for them to be asked to make a payment like this. And 
the employee had spoken with the company directors about a payment that would need to 
be made soon, so I dont think it was unreasonable that they then assumed these emails 
were in relation to that payment and the payment wouldnt have seemed unexpected.The name the emails appeared to have come from was the same as the name of one Rs 
genuine directors, so I dont think it was unreasonable that the employee thought it was from 
them. And the style and tone of the emails matched that of previous genuine emails R has 
sent us. So I dont think there was anything in the language of the emails that should have 
suggested to the employee that they werent genuine.
R has said the employee is often asked to make payments before the formal invoice has 
been sent, and the invoice is then sent later. So being asked to make a payment in this way 
was not unusual either.
And, as I explained above, I dont think the warning R was shown was impactful in its 
appearance. And the employee had been given the impression by the emails that the 
payment was urgent. So I dont think it was unreasonable for R to move past the warning it 
was shown and continue making the payment.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, its possible to identify a number of things 
about what was happening that could have caused R some concern. But, based on what Ive 
seen, I dont think its unreasonable that, in the moment, R either didnt pick up on these 
things or wasnt caused enough concern by them to overcome the parts of the scam that felt 
genuine.
So I dont think Metro has established that R made the payment without a reasonable basis 
for belief that it was genuine.
I therefore dont think Metro has established that any of the exclusions to reimbursement 
under the CRM code apply here. And so, under the CRM code, I think Metro should refund 
the money R lost as a result of this scam.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Metro Bank PLC to:
Refund R the £5,000 it lost as a result of this scam
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date it initially responded to Rs claim 
until the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman