DRN-3730025
The complaint
Ms S complains that her term life assurance policy with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
(Aviva) didnt cover her when she developed a significant illness. Ms S also complains she 
was sent details for another customer when she asked for details about her own policy. 
What happened
Ms S took out this policy through an independent financial adviser in 2004. That means 
Aviva werent responsible for the sale of the policy to Ms S. 
Some documents from the time show an initial illustration from March 2004 that said the 
policy would include critical illness cover. But the monthly cost for that policy was also shown 
as £55.93. The policy documents show that what Ms S eventually took out cost £16.79 per 
month. And  crucially  it didnt include critical illness cover. 
In response to this complaint, Aviva have explained thats why the policy didnt pay out when 
Ms S made her claim. The policy didnt provide that sort of cover. Ms S feels itd be fair in the 
circumstances for Aviva to refund her all of the premiums shes paid. But Aviva dont agree. 
Aviva accepted though that theyd sent Ms S some information about another customer that 
she shouldnt have had. They apologised, and have paid a total of £75 to Ms S to 
compensate her for the upset caused. Ms S doesnt feel thats enough compensation. 
Our investigator has explained why they feel Avivas actions to resolve the complaint have 
been reasonable. But that hasnt resolved the case. So its come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For much the same reasons as our investigator, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Aviva appear to be justified in denying Ms Ss claim. The documents show her policy doesnt 
include critical illness cover. While thats different to the first illustration Ms S seems to have 
had  in March 2004  so too is the cost of the policy. Im satisfied there must have been a 
change between the illustration and either the level of cover Avivas predecessor were willing 
to offer, or what Ms S was willing to pay. 
I appreciate Ms S feels the policy cost should be refunded by Aviva. But I dont consider that 
fair. The cost looks to have been clear at the time. And the policy doesnt look to have held 
itself out at that point as offering critical illness cover for that cost. The documents show only 
life cover was linked to that monthly cost. 
So I find Ms S has received the service she paid for  term assurance life cover. And Aviva 
arent responsible for Ms Ss disappointment that the policy doesnt include the critical illness 
cover she thought it had. 
On the complaint about Ms S being sent someone elses policy information, I can see how 
that has led Ms S to question whether her information has been kept securely. But I cant 
see any evidence of Ms Ss data being shared with the wrong people. And I view Avivas 
offer as a suitable way for them to reassure her that they take the matter seriously. I find 
nothing further is needed to put that part of the complaint right. 
My final decision
With the above in mind, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman