DRN-4236911
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W have complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) 
unfairly declined a claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W contacted Lloyds to make a claim under their home insurance policy when 
an outbuilding collapsed at their property. They said it was due to a storm. Lloyds 
investigated the claim and declined it because it said there werent storm conditions around 
the time of the incident. It also said the building collapsed due to a gradually operating 
cause. When Mr W and Mrs W complained, Lloyds maintained its decision to decline the 
claim. 
So, Mr W and Mrs W complained to this service. They also provided further evidence about 
the weather conditions around the time the outbuilding collapsed. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She said although there was evidence of a storm, it was still fair for 
Lloyds to decide the damage was caused by gradual deterioration.
As Mr W and Mrs W didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, Ive looked at the weather conditions around the time of the incident. 
These showed windspeeds of about 23mph, which wouldnt be regarded as storm strength. 
However, Mr W and Mrs W have since provided evidence of the level of rainfall around that 
time. This showed rainfall within an hour that would be considered to meet the definition of a 
storm. Based on that, Im satisfied there was a storm. For the second question, I think, in 
some circumstances, a storm could cause damage to a building and potentially lead to parts 
of it collapsing. So, I think the answer to the first two questions is yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question, which is whether the storm was the main cause of 
the damage. Ive looked at a report prepared for Lloyds. This said the exact cause of 
damage wasnt clear but that large trees next to the building might have rubbed against it 
and caused a fracture during wind conditions, contributing to its collapse. I note that, based 
on weather reports, there wasnt evidence of significant wind conditions around the time of 
the incident.
Ive also looked at Lloyds loss adjuster report and photos. This said there was a large tree 
near the front of the outbuilding that had grown directly alongside the roof and they 
suspected had caused pressure against the roof and compromised its structure over years. 
A large plant had also overgrown and spread across the full arch of the roof. There was 
evidence of roots penetrating the asbestos sheets and growing through the brickwork at the 
rear. They assessed that the damage was the result of a gradually operating cause due to 
the plants and trees compromising the structure.
Ive also read the report provided by Mr W and Mrs Ws builder. He said he wasnt an expert, 
but his opinion was that after the long dry summer, branches of an adjacent tree had 
become weak and after a heavy downpour had become waterlogged. The weight of the 
branches had then put pressure on the structure causing it to collapse.
An insurer is normally entitled to rely on its experts findings. In this instance, both people 
who visited identified issues that indicated trees and foliage had likely affected the structure 
of the building. The loss adjuster concluded that this was likely to have been over a period of 
time and that it was therefore a gradually operating cause, which wasnt covered by the 
policy. I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to rely on its loss adjusters report.
Ive also thought about Mr W and Mrs Ws builders report to see if this made a difference. 
Although this suggested a cause of damage, the person said they werent an expert. So, I 
dont think I can fairly put as much weight on this as Lloyds reports. So, having thought 
about this, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to rely on its experts findings and to decline 
the claim on the basis that the damage was the result of a gradually operating cause. 
As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require Lloyds to do anything further in relation to 
it.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman