DRN-1979323
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Although the PPI was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) have taken 
responsibility for this sale and so the complaint has been set up against AXA.
To keep things simple, Ive only referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
Mr P took out a store card in 2002. He was sold the PPI in connection with this card at the 
same time.
The PPI wouldve cost Mr P £1.00 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. And as I 
understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if Mr P was off 
work sick or lost his job until the outstanding balance had been cleared. 
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ps complaint should be upheld because they thought the policy 
wouldnt have been of good value for money in Mr Ps circumstances.
AXA didnt agree with our adjudicator and the complaint has been passed to me to decide. I 
issued a provisional decision in this case explaining why I didnt think Mr Ps complaint 
should be upheld.  I asked both parties to provide me with anything further they would like 
me to consider.
AXA have not responded to my provisional decision but Mr P has and he has confirmed that 
he has nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Given that neither party has provided me with any further information, comments or evidence 
to consider, I see no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision. It follows 
that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. I have copied my findings from the provisional decision 
below and they form part of my final decision.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr P would have been eligible for the policy. And based 
on Mr Ps circumstances at the time of the sale, for example his age and his employment, 
Im satisfied Mr P was eligible.
AXA had to make it clear to Mr P that the PPI was optional and needed Mr Ps consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Mr P says he didnt knowingly agree to taking out 
PPI. If he had been made aware, he says he wouldnt have taken it out because he says he 
did not need PPI.
I cant know for sure what happened during the sale and so Ive thought about what Mr P 
and AXA have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me 
decide what is more likely to have happened.
In particular, Ive been given a copy of the credit agreement. The credit agreement has a 
section for PPI. I can see that Mr P was presented with a choice as to whether to take PPI. If 
Mr P wanted PPI he would have had to sign the section to take it. And I note that Mr P did 
sign the section to take PPI. If Mr P hadnt signed to take PPI then I cant see that PPI would 
have been applied to Mr Ps account at this time. 
So, while I appreciate what Mr P has told us, based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely 
that PPI was presented as optional and was only applied to the account because Mr P chose 
to take it out. It follows that I think Mr P wouldve been aware he had been sold PPI, 
although I can appreciate why he may now no longer recall this given the length of time 
since the sale.
From the information available to me and what I know of their sales practice at the time, I 
dont think AXA advised Mr P to take the policy out. This means they didnt have to take 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr P. So, for example, AXA didnt have to ask 
about or consider Mr Ps existing provisions or assess if the PPI was affordable for Mr P.
But AXA did have to give Mr P clear information so that he could make a proper choice 
about whether to take the policy out. I cant say that AXA gave Mr P all the information as 
they shouldve about the costs/benefits of the policy or the main exclusions and restrictions. 
So, I have to go on and consider whether better information wouldve put Mr P off taking the 
policy out. 
The adjudicator concluded that better information about the costs and benefits of the policy 
would have put Mr P off taking the policy out. This is because our adjudicator thought that Mr 
P had sufficient existing repayment provisions (12 months or more in sick pay and savings) 
available at the time of the sale. 
Had it been the case that Mr P had provided a consistent account of having this level of 
cover, I would have agreed with the adjudicator. But the information Ive been provided with 
is unclear and inconsistent which means I am unable to conclude that its more likely that Mr 
P did have sufficient repayment provisions in place. 
For example, Mr P initially appears to have told AXA that he was entitled to basic sick pay 
from his employer and had around three months full pay in savings. But Mr P told us that he 
was entitled to six months full pay followed by six months half pay and had three months 
worth of pay in savings.  In more recent communication Mr P has explained that he was off 
work sick for three months and was paid full pay during this time. However, he has stated 
that he doesnt recall how long his sick pay entitlement was for. 
I appreciate the sale took place a very long time ago and its understandable that Mr P is 
unable to recall how much sick pay he was entitled to. But the difficulty is that based on this 
inconsistent information, I am unable to conclude that Mr P had sufficient cover in place, 
such that this policy wouldnt have provided good value for him. Particularly as the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ps existing means and potentially for a longer period of time. 
And it would also have paid out if he lost his job in addition any redundancy pay he may 
have been entitled to. 
Ive also considered whether better information about the exclusions and restrictions in the 
policy wouldve put Mr P off taking PPI out. And I dont think it would have. This is because 
Mr P didnt appear to have been affected by the more restrictive terms in the policy such as 
those relating to pre-existing medical conditions and unusual working arrangements. So, it 
seems like Mr P could have made a successful claim under the policy if the need arose.
I havent seen any evidence which would suggest that the PPI was unaffordable for Mr P at 
the time of the sale. And Mr P couldve cancelled the policy at any time without losing out 
financially if he no longer wanted it.
So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think Mr P was mis-sold this PPI policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman