Complaint
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage in 1984 with National & Provincial Building Society and 
were sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy at the same time. They 
say they were mis-sold this type of cover.
Santander UK PLC is now responsible for answering the complaint, so to keep things 
consistent, Ill mainly refer to Santander throughout this decision.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mr and Mrs S its unlikely to 
be upheld. They disagreed and asked for it to be passed for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
I can see Mr and Mrs S feel strongly they were told they ought to buy this type of cover and 
that getting a mortgage approved would be easier if they agreed to it. I certainly dont doubt 
they now genuinely feel the MPPI was mis-sold, but these events were a long time ago and 
Im afraid the evidence does tend to point the other way.
Ive looked, for example, at the application process that was used to get the MPPI. Theres 
no doubt that MPPI was sold or indeed that it was discussed because I see Mr and Mrs S 
say themselves they remember being told about some of the benefits the policy offered. 
I also note that there was a yes / no choice on the mortgage application form when it 
mentioned MPPI. In addition to this, there was a further step required if MPPI was to be 
added to their new mortgage. This took the form of a specific and separate MPPI application 
leaflet which allowed them to choose the type of protection they required and who was to be 
covered. I note they opted for cover only for Mr S. The general literature that came with the 
policy also indicated, in my view, that it was optional. 
So Im afraid all these things do tend to show that Mr and Mrs S would have known they had 
a choice about the MPPI and that they didnt have to buy it if they didnt want to. Mr and Mrs 
S say that they ultimately found the cover theyd purchased to be of little use, so they 
cancelled the policy after around 3 years. To me, this adds some weight to them knowing it 
was something that wasnt required to have a mortgage in the first place.
DRN-1153092In short, I think the evidence shows its much more likely that they agreed to the MPPI back 
in 1984, although I accept they may not remember this after some 36 years having passed. 
Knowing what I do about these types of sales I think the policy was probably recommended 
to them. This means it ought to have been suitable for their needs. Overall, I think it was. I 
say this because Mr S appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of 
the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. The price seems to me to be 
comparable with similar policies from around that time period and at around £7 per month, 
Ive seen nothing that suggests it wasnt affordable for them. 
Mr and Mrs S said they didnt need the cover because Mr S also had sickness protection 
with his job. Ive thought very carefully about his job and the likely benefits it could have had. 
But this doesnt make the MPPI unsuitable. The mortgage was secured against Mr and Mrs 
Ss home and so the consequences of them not being able to keep up payments could have 
been serious. In the event of a successful claim, the cover was payable for up to 24 months. 
This would have been in addition to  and much longer than - any other means Mr S already 
had in place at the time. 
So although I cant say why Mr and Mrs S decided to buy this policy, I dont think it being 
recommended it to them was unreasonable. I think the policy was suitable.
Santander also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously I cant confirm if they were told everything they ought to have been. But I can see 
the costs of the cover were set out on the forms they would have been given, as were some 
brief details about what was covered. So I think they had enough information on which to 
make an informed decision.
Overall, I think theres evidence that Mr and Mrs S engaged in the discussions about this 
sale and went through a number of steps to get the policy. The policy was not mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. And I dont direct Santander UK PLC to do 
anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman