The complaint
Mr P complains Ageas Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim on his buildings 
insurance policy following a storm.
What happened
Mr P was assisted in his claim by his insurance broker and a loss assessor. References I 
make to Mr P's actions include those of his broker and loss assessor.
Mr P owns a property which is rented to tenants and covered by an Ageas buildings 
insurance policy. In January 2020 his tenants let him know that water was entering the 
property and causing damage. He reported the damage to Ageas and said it had been 
caused by a recent storm. He said some lead flashing on the roof had come loose and 
allowed water to enter the property.
Mr P provided an estimate for the repairs to Ageas and it decided to appoint a surveyor to 
undertake a desktop review of the damage and validate the costs of the remedial works. The 
surveyor thought the damage had been caused over a period of time and this wasn't 
covered by the policy. So the claim for external damage was declined.
Mr P disagreed and complained to Ageas so it agreed to a surveyor visiting the site to 
provide a further report. The report concluded the damage wasn't as a result of a storm but a 
more general maintenance issue. So the claim for external damage remained declined and 
Ageas said the internal damage could only be considered under the Accidental Damage part 
of the policy. Later, it was agreed the internal damage claim would be paid.
He remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator considered 
the evidence and concluded that, the expert advice showed the damage was as a result of 
age-related wear and tear, not storm damage and so Ageas had acted reasonably in 
declining the claim.
Mr P remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, I've reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator. I realise Mr P is likely to be disappointed by this, so I'll 
explain my reasoning.
Insurers are free to decide what is and isn't covered by an insurance policy and the terms 
and conditions of the policy will define what those things are. They form the basis of the 
contract between the insurer and the policyholder. So I will consider these carefully when 
looking at this complaint while keeping in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
DRN-1874713When making a claim, the onus is on the policyholder to show the claim is covered by the 
policy. And if an insurer wants to rely on an exclusion, and so decline a claim, it must show 
the exclusion applies.
Having looked carefully at the terms of the policy, it's clear damage caused by a storm is one 
of the insured perils. There is also a general term which explains the policy doesn't cover 
maintenance or wear and tear and that the property must be properly maintained. 
When considering a claim for damage caused by a storm there are three questions I need to 
consider. Unless the answer to these questions is "yes" it's unlikely I'll say the claim should 
be paid. I'll consider each of these questions in turn.
Was there a storm at the time of the loss?
There seems to be some conflicting views on this but as Ageas has accepted there was a 
storm, it's not a point I need to consider further.
Is the damage typical of storm damage?
I consider it possible that this type of damage - lead flashing becoming detached on the roof 
- could have been caused by a storm. So I've then gone on to consider the next question.
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
The initial desktop report by the surveyor said there was a missing section of lead flashing 
along the top area of the side roof junction. It went on to say the whole area was in need of 
extensive maintenance and that it had been deteriorating over a period of time. It concluded 
there was no evidence of storm damage and the weather conditions had merely highlighted 
an existing underlying problem.
As Mr P wasn't happy with the desktop report, Ageas arranged a site visit by a surveyor. The 
surveyor found there was a small section of flashing missing but this wasn't in the area 
where water had entered the property. That had happened in another area of the roof where 
the pointing of the flashing had failed.
The surveyor also commented that there was further flashing starting to come away and 
there was danger of it becoming dislodged. It concluded that the external loss couldn't be 
attributed to a recent single storm event and that maintenance work was required to avoid 
similar occurrences happening.
Mr P didn't agree with these conclusions and said he maintained the property to a very high 
standard. Mr P's broker suggested he should provide Ageas with evidence of the 
maintenance undertaken on the roof of the property, if he had any. I've not seen anything to 
show Mr P did this.
Our investigator also offered Mr P the opportunity to do this and explained he would consider 
any evidence he could provide about his maintenance of the roof. But Mr P didn't provide 
anything. So while Ive taken into account his comments, Ive seen no evidence to support 
that Mr P regularly maintained his roof. 
Mr P did provide a brief comment from a roofer who said he thought the lead flashing was 
probably dislodged during adverse weather. But given the professional qualifications of the 
surveyor and detail in his report, I'm more persuaded by his account of the cause of the 
damage. And that was the damage wasn't caused by a storm event but by gradual wear and tear and lack of maintenance. I'm therefore satisfied it was reasonable for Ageas to rely on 
the information supplied by the surveyor. 
For the sake of completeness, I've then gone on to consider whether the claim might be 
covered by the accidental damage cover provided under Mr P's policy. And having 
considered this part of the policy I can see it specifically excludes damage caused by 
gradual deterioration or wear and tear. And as this was the cause of the damage, I'm 
satisfied it's not covered under this part of the policy either.
In summary, for the reasons I've explained I'm satisfied Ageas hasn't acted unreasonably in 
declining the claim, so I won't be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman