DRN-2667786
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Wirex Limited wont refund him the money he lost from his account 
through a scam.
What happened
Mr C and Wirex are aware of the background to this complaint. So, I dont propose to set it 
out in detail here. In summary, Mr C lost approximately £2,500 from his account when he 
was tricked by a scammer. He thought the scammer was a member of Wirex customer 
services team who he was dealing with on its social media platform (T). Mr C additionally 
lost just over £2,000 when he transferred the scammer some cryptocurrency that he was told 
was needed to unlock his account. 
Wirex originally said that there was no unauthorised access to Mr Cs account and that it 
hadnt been compromised. So, it thought it wasnt responsible. Wirex has since accepted 
that Mr C did fall victim to a scammer and that he didnt consent to the transfer of the money 
out of his account. But Wirex thinks that Mr C must take responsibility for falling prey to the 
scammer as it provided warnings on its genuine social media account that T was often used 
by scammers. And it thinks that Mr T was grossly negligent in giving the scammer his 
account access details.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Cs complaint be upheld. She thought that Mr C 
hadnt consented to the transaction whereby his account was emptied, as it was more likely 
than not carried out by the scammer. She also didnt consider Mr C to have been grossly 
negligent in handing over information about his account to the scammer, as hed been under 
their spell. But she didnt think that Wirex had to refund the cryptocurrency that Mr C had 
also lost. For the trouble and upset Mr C had experienced, our investigator recommended 
that Mr C be paid £200 compensation.
Wirex didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In advance of this final decision, 
I sent the parties a provisional decision in which I said I intended to uphold the complaint, 
although Id also be requiring that Wirex pay interest on the stolen funds and pay £450 
compensation.
Wirex responded to say that whilst it agreed with some of the points Id made, it 
fundamentally disagreed with the outcome. It considered that Mr C had failed to keep his 
security credentials safe; had allowed what we now know to be a third-party scammer to 
access his account; and didnt inform Wirex that this had happened immediately.
So Wirex thinks Mr C should be liable for the unauthorised payment made from his account, 
as it considers him to have been grossly negligent. It also doesnt think that it failed in its 
obligations to help keep Mr Cs account safe from fraud. Mr C didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I made the following findings:
This complaint is complicated by the nature of the scam that took place. Mr C was trying to 
pay for some medicine online using his Wirex card. But the transaction wouldnt complete as 
there was a problem with the card expiry date. So, Mr C decided to transfer the money back 
from his Wirex card to his UK bank account. This was so he could pay using his bank debit 
card. And thats where the problems started. 
When attempting the payment back to his UK bank, this didnt go through. It would appear 
that Wirex may have been conducting some maintenance on its platform at the time. And the 
system declined his payment request. But the money appeared to Mr C to have left his 
account, although apparently it hadnt. Mr C was later told by Wirex to try and transfer the 
money in smaller amounts. 
After the failed transfer to his UK bank account, Mr C tried straight away to get Wirex to 
answer his concerns about this. He got no response from it and, in desperation, as he 
needed to order his medication, he followed the link on Wirex site to T. Thats where he was 
taken in by the scammer. 
I dont think Wirex warnings about the presence of scammers on T were sufficient to stop 
this scam taking place. Mr C says he didnt see them. And the copy of his short legitimate 
conversation with Wirex doesnt include the full scam warning, only a truncated version. 
I also understand from Mr C that a few months after this scam took place, Wirex stopped 
using T as a platform to communicate with its customers. That, coupled with the numerous 
reports of other people that have been scammed which Mr C has sent us, leads me to 
conclude that this wasnt an appropriate medium for Wirex to have promoted in the first 
place. This started the chain of events that saw Mr Cs account cleared out. 
So, Ive found that the starting point for what then transpired was Wirex failure to make the 
payment to his UK bank account as instructed. And then not responding quickly enough to 
Mr C when he enquired about this through its legitimate customer help desk. This then 
escalated into Mr C using the social media platform (T), a service that Wirex had provided a 
link to and promoted on its website. 
Wirex was clearly aware that T was being used by scammers to defraud its customers. It 
had put a message to that effect on its genuine account with T. But Mr C was only on that 
very briefly - before being caught under the spell of the scammer who was pretending to be 
from Wirex customer services team. The upshot of this was that Mr C ended up transferring 
over £2,000 worth of cryptocurrency to the scammer to unlock his account. He was told by 
the scammer he would get this back. But even though he clearly became increasingly 
suspicious that he was being scammed, he was so far under the spell that he still transferred 
further amounts to them. 
We dont have any evidence of the initial conversations that Mr C had with the scammer on 
T. But we do have the latter parts of that conversation. Its my finding from this evidence that 
Mr C was more likely than not tricked into providing the scammer with sufficient details about 
his Wirex account so that the scammer was able to log into it. In the latter part of the 
conversation, he also provides one-time passcodes when asked to by the scammer. So, its 
more likely than not that he unknowingly helped the scammer access his account and then 
authenticate the transfer of the £2,500 balance from it. Under the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs), in order for Wirex to hold Mr C liable for 
that transfer, Mr C needs to have authorised the transaction. That involves it being both 
authenticated and consented to by Mr C. Whilst here Im satisfied that the transaction was 
authenticated, albeit through the scammer getting the details necessary to do so from Mr C, 
Ive found that Mr C wasnt aware that the transaction was happening or that he consented 
to it. 
When Mr Cs account was taken over by the scammer, his access information was also 
changed. One of the items that was amended was Mr Cs location - which was changed from 
the UK to a country in Africa. As Wirex will know, that country is known to be a high-risk 
location in terms of banking fraud. And Im surprised that this didnt flag up on Wirex security 
systems as unusual, particularly given Mr Cs previous location had always been in the UK. 
Faced with this unusual change, Wirex doesnt appear to have done anything to check that 
Mr Cs account hadnt been compromised. And, as a result, the scammer was then able to 
transfer the balance of Mr Cs account into cryptocurrency and then remove it to an 
untraceable location. Wirex is required to take measures to protect its customers from fraud. 
And in this case, I think it had the opportunity to do so, but didnt. 
Ive thought about whether Mr C could be said here to have been grossly negligent by 
providing sufficient details about his account to allow the scammer to access it. But this was 
a sophisticated scam during which he thought he was communicating with a Wirex customer 
services agent. When he provided sufficient information for his account to be compromised, 
the damage was already done. He lost the amount in his account as well as an additional 
£2,000 odd of cryptocurrency. 
I am not saying that Mr C was completely without fault here. He clearly continued to transfer 
cryptocurrency to the scammer, despite in the latter stages of the con being concerned that 
they might be a fraudster. Its clear from Mr Cs conversation with the scammer that he had 
his concerns. But he was so far under the spell that he continued to make transfers. 
So, Ive thought about whether I should hold Wirex responsible for Mr Cs cryptocurrency 
losses as well. But Ive found that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to do so. Wirex 
was, in my view, responsible for Mr C using T in the first place to try and contact it. But it was 
the scammer that was ultimately responsible for conning Mr C out of the cryptocurrency. 
Wirex had no opportunity to stop that, unlike the transfer from Mr Cs account with it, where 
changes to the login information were made and not picked up by its security systems. 
So, Ive provisionally decided that Wirex should repay Mr C the sum of £2,534.20 that was 
taken from his Wirex account. Mr C hasnt had the use of that money since it was taken. So, 
I think that Wirex should pay him simple interest on that amount at our usual rate of 8% a 
year from the time that it was taken until its refunded. 
Mr C also had to go to great lengths to make himself heard about this problem. Wirex didnt 
communicate with him at all efficiently. Mr C was in contact with Wirex for over three weeks 
before he was told that there was no evidence of fraud on his account. He had to continually 
chase Wirex to find out what was going on. And hes said this caused him significant stress 
and anxiety. The money at issue here was intended by Mr C for the purchase of medicine, 
which he needed for a life-limiting condition from which he suffers. That will have only made 
the effect of this series of events much worse for him. 
So, Ive provisionally decided that £450 would be an appropriate amount of compensation for 
Wirex service failings and the trouble and upset Mr C experienced as a result.
Wirex sent me a helpful and detailed response to my provisional decision. Ill address the main considerations below, although if I dont mention something that Wirex considers to be 
important, it can be sure that I have taken everything into account in reaching this final 
decision.
Wirex fundamental concern is that Mr C failed in his obligations under both Wirex terms and 
conditions of business, and Regulation 72 of the PSRs, to keep his account access details 
safe. I agree thats the case and Mr C did breach those obligations. But in order for him to be 
held liable for the consequences of the unauthorised transaction, he must have done this 
either intentionally or been grossly negligent.
Under Regulation 72, a payment service user (here Mr C) is required to keep their security 
credentials safe and to let the payment service provider (Wirex) know, without undue delay, 
on becoming aware of the loss of a payment instrument. Ive found that Mr C must have told 
the scammer his account access details. 
But the key point here is that I dont think he knew he was giving the information to a third 
party. Mr C had been taken in by the scammer and thought he was dealing with Wirex. He 
was so deep into the scam that he even ended up transferring £2,000 odd of Cryptocurrency 
to the scammer, thinking it was Wirex and that this was necessary to release his account. He 
had been told hed see the money back in his account immediately once it had been 
unlocked.
Wirex thinks that a reasonable person should have known never to release their security 
details to either their financial services provider or a third party. And that this is something 
that all banks tell their customers, so a reasonable person should have been aware of this. 
But Mr C thought he was dealing with a member of Wirex customer services team. And 
there was a problem with his account that he needed sorting urgently. So, I can see why he 
would have done what he was being asked to in order to access his money. And I dont 
agree that a reasonable person wouldnt have done this in similar circumstances.
I think its clear that Mr C didnt intend to give away his security details to a third-party. And 
he also couldnt inform Wirex that hed done this in time for it to make any difference, as he 
was still caught up in the scam.
In order for Mr C to be held responsible for the unauthorised payments from his account, he 
will have had to have shown a very significant degree of carelessness in order to be 
considered grossly negligent.
As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think that bar has been reached. Mr C was taken 
in by the scammer to the extent that he even sent further money to help with the process of 
unlocking his account. Some of this appears to be cryptocurrency that he borrowed from an 
acquaintance. He was swept up enough in the situation to be oblivious to the risk of what he 
was doing. Thats a common problem that we see with sophisticated frauds like this, where 
customers cant identify that they are being scammed.
Whilst it did appear to dawn on Mr C later in the series of events that he may be subject to a 
scam, at that point the damage had already been done. The scammer had access to his 
account, had transferred the £2,500 and already had the bulk of the cryptocurrency. And it 
was only very small amounts that were transferred once he became suspicious. So, I dont 
think that at the relevant time Mr C acted recklessly. He wasnt so indifferent to an obvious 
risk that he should be held responsible for his failure to keep the security details safe.
Wirex has helpfully pointed out that I was incorrect when I said that Mr Cs account details 
had been changed to an address in Africa. It was in fact the internet protocol (IP) address 
that changed and not his Wirex profile. I accept that Wirex customers often travel. And so this may not always have been suspicious. But here Mr Cs account was in one moment 
being accessed from the UK, and then the next, apparently, from Africa. So, I still consider 
that to be something that should have flagged up as a potential concern to Wirex.
Wirex has also said that the money was back in Mr Cs account pretty soon after his initial 
transactions had failed. But the evidence from Mr C is that he was unable to see that. There 
does appear to have been maintenance going on that day on Wirex platform. And here 
there were good reasons for Mr C to get concerned relatively quickly about his money as he 
was in the process of using it to buy medication for a painful condition from which he 
suffered. This made him vulnerable. And I dont think it was unreasonable for him to seek 
assistance through the social media platform, T, as quickly as he did. As I said in my 
provisional decision, I dont consider that the messages about scammers operating were 
sufficiently clear and visible to Mr C that they would have stopped him being taken in.
Wirex is concerned that my decision in the case doesnt give sufficient importance to Mr Cs 
obligations under the PSRs and instead focuses on its failure to prevent the scam taking 
place. But as Ive highlighted above, I have first and foremost considered the PSRs. And Ive 
found Mr C not to have been grossly negligent.
Wirex obligations to try to prevent the scam taking place were secondary in my 
considerations. I still think that the change of IP address should have highlighted that two 
people were accessing the account, in close succession, one of whom was in a risky 
location, many miles from where the customer had recently accessed it. And directing 
customers to a social media platform that was known to have been a forum of choice for 
fraudsters, didnt help Mr C avoid being scammed in the first place. So, I do think that Wirex 
could have done more here. And that could have prevented Mr C losing his money.
In the circumstances, other than where stated above, I dont see any need to change my 
provisional findings, which I adopt in this final decision. Accordingly, I think that Mr Cs 
complaint should be upheld and that compensation should be paid as set out below.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold Mr Cs complaint against Wirex Limited. I require that Wirex 
Limited pay Mr C:
 £2,534.20; 
 Interest on that amount at the rate of 8% simple a year from the date it left Mr Cs 
account to when its refunded to him; and 
 £450 for the trouble and upset Mr C has been caused. 
Her Majestys Revenue & Customs may require that Wirex deduct tax from the interest paid 
to Mr C. If it does and Mr C requests it, Wirex must provide him with a certificate showing 
how much tax it has taken off, so he may reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 James Kennard
Ombudsman