DRN-1550727
 
complaint
Mrs R says Barclays Bank Plc (trading as Egg) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. For simplicity I will refer to the business as Egg for the majority of 
the rest of this decision.
background
The PPI policy cost £0.79 for every £100.00 of the credit cards balance and in the event of a 
successful claim, could have paid 10% of the monthly balance for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs R recalls taking the credit card in November and thinks she amended her application for 
the card later following a telephone conversation with Egg. Egg has no record of any such 
telephone contact with Mrs R. Eggs records suggest that Mrs R took the credit card in 
November 2008 during an online application and that she then did a balance transfer in 
December 2008 via another online submission, and she selected the PPI at that time. 
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when there is limited documentation 
available from the time of the sale. But there is no evidence available that supports Mrs Rs 
version of events. So, whilst acknowledging that things could have happened just as Mrs R 
said, having considered all the submissions I have received in this case, and without any 
further evidence to support her testimony, I think its more likely that Mrs R took the PPI 
during an internet application to make a balance transfer, even if she cant recall that many 
years later.  
Ive considered the sample internet screens Egg has provided. It seems that Mrs R had to 
select either Yes to add PPI to her card, or No not to. Egg has said Mrs R wouldnt have 
been able to proceed with her application unless she chose one of these options. Egg says 
that neither answer was preselected for Mrs R. So, overall, I think its likely Mrs R selected 
Yes and did so knowing this was something she could have said No to. Egg didnt recommend that Mrs R take the PPI, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. Instead Egg had to provide information that was clear and not misleading so that Mrs R 
could decide about the policy for herself. 
Its possible the information Egg gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been - including the information about the cost of the policy. But based on what I know about 
Mrs Rs circumstances, I dont think better information would have stopped her from buying 
it.
I say this because Mrs R was eligible for the policy, and whilst there were some things the 
policy wouldnt cover, it doesnt look as though any of those things applied to Mrs R at the 
time the PPI was taken, such as pre-existing medical conditions. 
I say this knowing that Mrs R told us she started work as a teacher earlier that year. And the 
policy required that someone had been in continuous employment for six months before they 
could make a successful claim for unemployment cover. Its possible that Egg didnt highlight 
this information sufficiently. But I dont think better or more information on this point would 
have put Mrs R off the policy. I say that because at the time she took the policy she had 
been employed for a number of months and she had only a few months to wait before she 
could have claimed for unemployment cover. And it seems that Mrs R chose to take this 
cover and must have wanted the cover it could provide. I think she would have accepted a 
short wait for that cover. 
And I think Mrs R could have found the policy useful. I say that because Mrs R told us that 
she was entitled to good sick pay from her employer initially but that it dropped significantly 
after six months, such that Mrs R may have had to use her modest savings to make her 
repayments. But the policy could have paid 10% of the balance for up to 12 months if she 
was too ill to work, and it provided the same benefits if Mrs R lost her job. So, I think the 
policy could have been useful to Mrs R. 
So I dont think that Mrs R lost out as a result of anything Egg might have done wrong.
Mrs R told us she was in a probation period and the most likely cause of unemployment 
would be if she failed her probation. In that circumstance the policy wouldnt cover her and 
so she thinks the policy was mis-sold. It is in the nature of this type of insurance to offer 
protection against the unexpected, rather than to indemnify someone for their own actions. 
In any event, this is a reasonably standard term in such policies. And most likely, the policy 
was sold without a recommendation to Mrs R, so Egg didnt need to consider if the policy 
was suitable for her. I have said earlier in this decision that its possible the information Egg 
gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been at the time of the sale. But for 
the reasons given above, I do not think that better information would have put Mrs R off the 
policy. 
I have looked at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given by 
the adjudicator, and set out above, I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Barclays Bank 
Plc doesnt need to refund everything Mrs R paid for it. 
But Barclays Bank Plc has already offered to give Mrs R back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman