DRN-3822507
The complaint
Miss L complains about the time National Westminster Bank Plc took to reimburse her after 
she fell victim to a scam, and the service she received during that time.
Background
Miss L has explained that in June 2022, she made a payment of £750 to an individual she 
believed would be providing her with some home improvement works. Prior to making the 
payment, Miss L has said she conducted checks on the company, such as looking through 
online reviews, checking previous work completed by the company and reviewing the 
companys details registered online. However, after the payment had been made, the firm 
she had been speaking with kept missing agreed deadlines for the work to be conducted. 
After seeking further advice from third parties, Miss L requested a refund from the company. 
When this also failed to materialise, Miss L contacted NatWest to raise a fraud claim. This 
was on 16 August 2022.
During this call, NatWest advised it wouldnt provide Miss L with a refund but that it would 
contact the beneficiary bank to see if Miss Ls funds could be recovered. Over the next few 
weeks, Miss L contacted NatWest for further updates but was advised it was still waiting for 
a response from the beneficiary bank. On 6 September 2022, Miss L called again for an 
update. She explains the NatWest advisor suggested she should provide the evidence she 
had to corroborate the events of the scam, which she did that evening. The following 
morning, Miss L received a response from NatWest that it still wouldnt refund her. Miss L 
considers there was insufficient time for the evidence she provided to have even been 
considered.
Unhappy with how her claim had been handled, Miss L raised a complaint with NatWest. 
NatWest considered the complaint and provided its response the following day. While it 
maintained that the correct outcome had been reached on her claim, NatWest agreed to 
refund Miss L the £750 she had lost to the scam as a gesture of goodwill. It also offered an 
additional £250 in compensation to acknowledge the level of service NatWest had provided, 
as well as sending Miss L flowers.
Miss L was unhappy with the outcome reached. She felt she should have been reimbursed 
from the outset of her claim and that by not doing so, NatWest had added additional stress 
to her. Unhappy with NatWests response, Miss L brought the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He considered that the steps 
NatWest had already taken were fair in putting things right for Miss L and that the 
compensation applied was a fair reflection of distress caused.
Miss L disagreed. To summarise, she said that had NatWest asked for additional information 
from her from the outset, and reviewed this information, this could have altered NatWests 
decision to not reimburse her, which in turn led to three to four weeks of additional distress 
and anxiety. 
As Miss L disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been referred to me 
for a final decision.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about the Lending 
Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code, which NatWest has signed up to. The Code sets 
out that when a scam is reported to a bank, it should contact the beneficiary firm as set out 
in Best Practice Standards. It should then make a decision on whether to reimburse its 
customer without undue delay, and in any event no later than 15 Business days after the 
day on which the Customer reported the APP scam.
In this case NatWest has advised the beneficiary was contacted on the same day that the 
scam was reported, and that the beneficiary eventually confirmed that no funds remained. I 
appreciate Miss L received unclear updates from this investigation and I dont doubt this 
wouldve added to her stress and anxiety she was already experiencing at this time as the 
result of being a fraud victim.
I also appreciate that Miss L feels she wasnt given the opportunity to provide all available 
evidence for her claim before NatWest declined to reimburse her, and that this impacted the 
decision NatWest initially made. I understand Miss Ls strength of feeling and that she 
considers she conducted due diligence before making the fraudulent payment. Ultimately, 
its for NatWest to decide what information it needs to conduct its claim investigation  its 
certainly good practice for banks to obtain available evidence from the time of the scam to 
reach a fair outcome, but at the same time if a bank considers it has enough information 
instead from speaking to its customers, this is an option open to it also. 
Having listened to the call Miss L had with NatWest when reporting the scam, I can see 
NatWest did ask questions to determine whether it considered Miss L had met her requisite 
level of care for a refund under the CRM Code. While Miss L may not agree with the 
outcome reached, I dont think NatWest acted unreasonably during this call, based on its 
level of questioning before reaching an outcome.
If customers disagree with their banks findings, they have the right to complain both to the 
bank and to us. In this case, when Miss L raised a complaint with her bank, it provided both 
a refund of her scam losses as a gesture of goodwill, as well as compensation. When 
complaints are referred to our service and we disagree with the outcome reached by the 
bank, this doesnt mean we necessarily award compensation for additional worry caused 
during the time the complaint has been ongoing  each case is considered on a case-by-
case basis to determine the impact the wait caused. Having considered what Miss L has told 
us, against our approach to compensation set out on our website, I think the offer made by 
NatWest fairly reflects issues caused in its claim process and I wouldnt expect it to have 
offered anything further.In summary, while Im sorry to disappoint Miss L, I think the steps NatWest has already 
taken are a fair way to put things right, considering the additional distress its actions caused 
Miss L  and Im not asking NatWest to pay anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ls complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman