DRN-3730073
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with their home 
insurance claim after their property was flooded.
What happened
In August 2020, Mr and Mrs Cs home was flooded following torrential rain in their area.  
Water filled a void underneath their house as well as the ground floor.  Mrs C contacted AXA 
to make a claim.
The flood made Mr and Mrs Cs home uninhabitable.  Their policy included cover for 
alternative accommodation in these circumstances, so AXA offered them hotel 
accommodation while longer term arrangements were made.  
Mr and Mrs C declined this, as health issues meant they were shielding due to Covid-19, 
and because they had animals they needed to care for.  They requested a motor home on 
their property instead.  After some negotiation, AXA provided a caravan to accommodate 
them temporarily onsite.
Remedial works couldnt be started until water had been pumped out of the void and the 
property had been dried out.  But the void kept refilling.  AXA investigated the reason this 
kept happening and these investigations took some time.  Six months after the flood, AXA 
authorised infilling of the void and tanking to prevent future flooding.  
Once this work was completed, repairs to the damage and other aspects of the claim could 
be dealt with.  Mr and Mrs C returned to their property in October 2021.
Mr and Mrs C raised concerns throughout the claim about how AXA dealt with it.   AXA sent 
a total of seven final response letters addressing those concerns and paying Mr and Mrs C a 
total of £650 compensation.  Mr and Mrs C didnt consider this to be a satisfactory response 
to what had happened and brought their complaints to our service.
Our investigator considered what had been raised and concluded we didnt have jurisdiction 
to look at everything Mr and Mrs C had raised.  He explained that, in order for us to 
investigate a complaint, it must be referred to us within six months of a business sending 
their customer a final response letter  unless exceptional circumstances prevented the 
customer from doing that.  
The investigator made enquiries, but didnt identify exceptional circumstances which had 
stopped Mr and Mrs C coming to us within six months of receiving the final response letters 
they received in August and December 2022 and February and May 2021.  So he concluded 
we could only look at the complaints addressed in AXAs letters from August and November 
2021 and January 2022.
From these letters, the investigator identified complaints about delays in progressing the 
claim, payments for utility usage, the costs of cleaning and reinstating Mr and Mrs Cs lawn 
and the personal injury Mrs C suffered, which she said was AXAs responsibility.  He 
concluded that AXA had dealt with these reasonably and didnt need to do any more to 
resolve the complaint.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.  I know theyll be extremely 
disappointed by my decision.  Ill explain why Ive made it.
I agree with the investigator that our rules prevent us from investigating the concerns raised 
by Mr and Mrs C early in the claim.  Im satisfied they werent brought to us within six months 
of AXA sending a final response.  And Ive seen no evidence which leads me to conclude 
there were exceptional circumstances which prevent Mr and Mrs C from doing this.  So Ive 
limited my decision to the issues the investigator identified in his view.
I understand the situation was extremely stressful for Mr and Mrs C.  That would have been 
the case for anyone whod suffered the damage to their home they had.  But the situation 
was made worse in Mr and Mrs Cs case by the serious illness Mr C was suffering 
throughout the claim.
And, while I acknowledge all that, having to make a claim is stressful  even if its trouble 
free.  It also takes time to resolve.  And an insurer is entitled to investigate the circumstances 
of the claim before deciding on the best course of remedial action and to explore options to 
make sure their expenditure is reasonable.
Delay
I cant say AXA should do more to resolve Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about delay, simply 
because the claim took over a year to settle.  Its clear from everything Ive read that the 
claim was complicated by the fact water kept returning to the void after it was pumped out.  It 
was reasonable for AXA to try and identify the cause before making repairs, to try and 
prevent a repeat.  
I can see Mr and Mrs C were frustrated at the speed of progress and thought infilling could 
have been started more quickly.  But Im satisfied there were a number of factors to consider 
and parties to consult.  Nothing Ive seen suggests AXA didnt pursue the matter promptly.  
So I cant say they delayed in infilling the void.
Nor has anything Ive seen suggested delays in dealing with the claim once the infilling was 
complete.  As Ive mentioned above, and in accordance with their policy terms, AXA were 
entitled to verify the details of the claim and to explore cost-effective solutions before 
settling.  Ive also seen they were in frequent contact with Mrs C about all aspects of the 
claim.  On the basis of what Ive seen, Ive not seen any delays for which I think AXA should 
compensate Mr and Mrs C.
Utility charges
Much of the later correspondence between AXA, their representatives and Mr and Mrs C 
revolves around AXAs contribution to Mr and Mrs Cs utility bills.  These rose considerably 
as a result of having to install drying equipment at the house.  Mr and Mrs C have pointed out there was other usage related to the claim, such as the contractors power tools.  And 
theyve said their own usage was minimal while living the caravan.
Ive thought carefully about this.  Both parties have provided their calculations, which Ive 
studied.  I think confusion has arisen because Mr and Mrs C have based their calculations 
on their monthly direct debit payments.  AXA have used Mr and Mrs Cs bills to calculate 
daily usage.
Im satisfied that AXAs method was reasonable, because it provided reimbursement for the 
energy used.  Mr and Mrs C received payments for energy totalling £3,922.77.  This is the 
amount of their bills for the period, less a sum for their normal spend.  
So Im satisfied the amount AXA paid Mr and Mrs C for utilities is fair.  I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs C are unhappy they were left in a position where their energy supplier has set a high 
direct debit payment because of their high usage.  I hope theyve now been able to resolve 
that with the supplier.  But I dont think AXA did anything wrong here.  So they dont need to 
do any more on this issue.
Cleaning costs 
AXA originally agreed to pay a company to remove items for cleaning and a second 
company to deal with the actual cleaning.  Quotes from the two firms totalled £6,710.  Mr 
and Mrs C decided not to proceed on that basis and asked AXA to pay them this amount, 
and they would deal with the cleaning themselves.  AXA declined.  This aspect of the claim 
was settled by AXA for £3,500.
I understand the logic behind Mr and Mrs Cs request.  But AXA was only obliged to pay the 
costs Mr and Mrs C incurred in dealing with cleaning.  Because Mr and Mrs C were 
concerned about the removal company, they told AXA they would work with the cleaning 
company (which had quoted £1,850) and enlist family and friends to help.
On that basis, I dont think its reasonable to say Mr and Mrs C should have received a 
payment equivalent to employ a commercial company to do the work.  The settlement of 
£3,500 would have left Mr and Mrs C with sufficient to reimburse and/or reward those 
helping them with the cleaning.  In the absence of any evidence Mr and Mrs C spent more 
than this for cleaning, I think AXAs approach here was reasonable.
Lawn 
Mr and Mrs C said their lawn was damaged because flood damaged items were left on it for 
several months.  They obtained a quote for replacement which AXA paid.  So I dont think 
anything more is necessary here. 
Injury to Mrs C
Mrs C injured herself when she entered the house to search for receipts to support the claim.  
She says she was pressured to do this by AXA and holds them responsible for her injury.
Im sorry that Mrs C was injured  and that the consequences of that injury are still impacting 
her life.  But I can only look at how AXA dealt with the claim she made under her home 
insurance policy.  That policy provides cover to repair or replace damaged buildings and 
contents.  It doesnt provide personal injury cover for the homeowner.
So I cant consider this part of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.  I can see AXA advised her that 
they didnt accept responsibility for what had happened.  But they suggested Mrs C to take 
legal advice if she wanted to pursue a claim.  I agree with that suggestion if Mrs C still wants to consider this.  But I dont think AXA need to do anything more to resolve Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about AXA 
Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman