DRN-3043032
The complaint
Ms Ms complaint relates to the Dual Currency Deposit (DCD) account she opened in 2008 
with Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Designated Activity Company  hereafter 
referred to as ML and, as respondent to the complaint, Bank of America Europe DAC 
(BAE). She says:
ML did not properly advise her about the DCD product. [issue 1]
Misguided her and gave her unsuitable advice, between July and September 2008, 
on high value USD to GBP exchange transactions that she sought to make through 
the account. The misguidance and unsuitable advice happened through the four 
tranches of exchange transactions proposed to her by ML during this period. [issue 2]
She says, mainly as a result of issue 2, she exchanged her funds at less favourable rates, 
which was avoidable, and incurred lost opportunity for value of around £423,000. 
Ms M has also expressed her dissatisfaction with the overall level of service she received 
from ML (including her allegations that MLs conduct and conflicting representations 
confused her, that ML placed undue pressure upon her in the transactions and, with regards 
to her complaint, ML unreasonably refused to engage in mediation). However, her claim is 
for reasonable compensation in the context of issues 1 and 2, and in the context of the lost 
opportunity for value that she has referred to. 
BAE disputes the complaint.
What happened
Ms M mainly says:
She wanted to exchange her USD funds in the account into GBP, she was not in any 
particular rush to do so and no wider matter was dependent on the exchanges so she 
was prepared to have the pursuit take place over time and at the most favourable 
exchange rate achievable. Her engagement with ML in this respect began in July 
2008.
Her initial contact at ML (ML1) advised her to wait for around six months, as he 
anticipated USD appreciating against GBP over this period to the extent of $1.75/£1 
(which would have benefited her given that the rate was higher at the time) but his 
advice was unofficial and she could not follow it because he was a EURO (not GBP) 
specialist, so she was referred to a GBP specialist (ML2). ML2 was unduly 
aggressive/hostile and dominating, he also did not appear to be competent and he 
gave conflicting advice (including the view that USD was likely to depreciate against 
GBP to the extent of $2/£1 or higher), so she complained about him and ML replaced 
him with another official (ML3). ML did this on conditions that she felt coerced to 
accept. The conditions included that she had to follow ML3s advice exclusively and 
that she could not discuss her pursuit or take advice on it externally (including her 
family). 
Initially ML3 also advised that USD was likely to appreciate and that the USD/GBP 
rate was likely to reach $1.75/£1. His view was that this was likely over a period of 
time until around December 2009. Despite knowing her objective for the most 
favourable rate achievable and despite the absence of any rush on her part, ML3 
thereafter behaved in a conflicting manner by abandoning these elements (and his 
initial view) and by recommending four rushed transactions at the less favourable 
rates of $1.95/£1, $1.90/£1, $1.85/£1 and $1.80/£1. 
The loss of value she incurred resulted from following this recommendation and then 
finding out that more favourable rates soon thereafter emerged in the market, as ML1 
had initially advised. This was proven by comparable high value exchange 
transactions conducted by her family members, through other firms, at much better 
rates. One family member did this in October 2008 at the rate of $1.6418/£1, another 
did so in the same month at the rate of $1.5444/£1, another did so in November 2008 
at the rate of $1.5920/£1 and another did so in May 2009 at the rate of $1.5150. Had 
her transactions been based on such rates she would not have lost the value she has 
referred to.
BAEs position is mainly as follows:
There is no evidence of the conflicting advice that has been alleged and no evidence 
that ML2 said USD was likely to depreciate against GBP to the extent of $2/£1 or 
higher. To the contrary, Ms M concedes that ML1 advised that USD was likely to 
appreciate over time, and she has also conceded that ML3 advised the same (for a 
period up to around December 2009). ML3s advice was the banks position at the 
time, it was clear and it was supported by the following evidence  its FX Weekly 
publication dated 5 August 2008 which forecast $1.75/£1 for December 2009; and 
Bloomberg data which showed that As of 4 August 2008 the median average 
forecast for Q3 2008 (i.e. 30 September 2008) was $1.96 and for Q4 2008 (i.e. 31 
December 2008) was $1.90. For completeness, the median average forecast at that 
time for rates over the following four years was as follows: $1.82 for end of 2009, 
$1.81 for end of 2010, $1.80 for end of 2011, and $1.81 for end of 2012.
These indicators were the basis on which ML3 recommended the four transactions 
which were to be triggered when each rate was reached in the market, this was 
designed to assist Ms M to benefit from the forecast appreciation in a conservative 
manner  whilst recognising that the foreign exchange market (like any market) 
does not necessarily follow forecast predictions and this strategy was wilfully agreed 
by her. Evidence of her agreement was recorded in ML3s notes for his meeting with 
her on 4 August 2008, which included  
"Strategy agreed
Explained that our view is that the long terms prospects for USD/GBP are 1.75.
That was not a prediction and there is no guarantee that such will be reached let 
alone time scale.
A phased transfer in 4 stages 195 -190 -185 -180."
The strategy also matched her objective, which ML3s notes recorded as  "Twin 
objectives 1. convert gradually from USD into GBP. 2. maximise returns in the 
meantime through the use of DCD s."The transactions that were executed have been misrepresented and should be 
clarified. Its records show that the first transaction was based on a DCD Ms M 
entered during the meeting of 4 August and at the first trigger point of $1.95/£1 (the 
execution exchange rate was $1.9465/£1). Record from this meeting also shows she 
was given all relevant information about DCDs and examples of how they worked. 
The next trigger point of $1.90/£1 was reached on 12 August when the second 
transaction happened  at the execution exchange rate of $1.9047/£1. The third and 
fourth trigger points ($1.85 and $1.80/£1) were reached on 26 August and 3 
September when the third and fourth transactions happened (at the execution 
exchange rates of $1.8525 and $1.7954/£1), but both transactions were thereafter 
cancelled/reversed after Ms M complained (on 10 September) because she was 
displeased they were carried out during her absence on holiday and she considered 
them unauthorised. A fifth transaction was carried out on 10 September but this had 
no involvement or advice from ML, it resulted solely from Ms Ms instructions and it 
was executed at the rate of $1.7667/£1. No other conversation transactions 
happened and, contrary to her claim, the two transactions on 22 September she has 
referred to were for the transfer of a USD sum, in USD, to a GBP account she held 
elsewhere. Receipt of the sum in that account was shown in GBP, but that was only 
because GBP was the accounts base currency, not because it was a conversion or 
DCD transaction.
Nothing was rushed in Ms Ms case, the strategy was based on the agreed trigger 
points and the fact that those trigger points came around sooner than expected does 
not mean the process was rushed.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. She was broadly persuaded by MLs position on and evidence of its engagements 
with Ms M and the transactions that took place. In addition, she also said:
There is evidence from the notes of Ms Ms meeting with ML on 4 August that it 
discussed with her how DCDs worked; the terms and conditions for the DCD account 
that she was given informed her about the account, including notices that she might 
not get back the amount invested, that she should ensure she fully understands the 
terms and risks associated with transactions in the account, that prices and other 
terms in those transactions are individually negotiated and may not represent the 
best price or terms available from other sources and that the applicable rates of 
exchange  shall be determined by the Bank in accordance with the Confirm. A 
copy of the Confirm for her first transaction clearly shows the selected exchange rate.
Ms M also signed a Global Derivatives Suitability form on 16 July 2008 which 
confirmed she had received a derivatives risk warning notice and was aware of the 
special risks associated with the account.
Overall, evidence shows Ms M was reasonably informed about the workings of the 
DCD product, its associated risks, the rates applicable in transactions and that those 
rates might not be the best available.
There is a lack of evidence that Ms M was under pressure or rushed in the 
transactions or that she was told not to discuss her pursuit with anyone else, and her 
request to reverse the third and fourth transactions suggests she had input on how 
the conversions happened.
Ms M disagreed with this outcome. She mainly restated the key points in her claim and she 
disputed MLs claims about giving her suitable advice and about giving her the USD forecast that it now claims. She says, if what ML now says was its view at the time, not only was that 
not shared with her it also adds merit to her claim that ML misled her, because it told her 
something different and conflicting at the time. She also disagreed with the investigators 
comment that ML could not have reasonably been expected to predict the resulting 
USD/GBP rate movement. She said others in the sector at the time did so and were 
predicting $1.6/£1, and that at the very least ML should have made its forecast clear to her 
(not conflicting, as it was) and should have advised her to wait until the rate was heading in 
the direction of its forecast (which is what she suggested at the time, but her suggestion was 
dismissed by ML3).
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigators and I do not 
uphold Ms Ms complaint. I also endorse and incorporate the investigators core reasoning.
The first point to note is about evidence in the complaint. In her submissions to this service, 
since 2020, Ms M has referred to her recollections of exchanges she had with MLs officials 
about the DCD account and about the transactions. However, these events happened 
almost 14 years ago to date (or around 12 years before 2020). 
It is not implausible that the passage of time could have affected the accuracy of Ms Ms 
recollections. I have not determined that this is certainly the case, and it is possible that her 
recollections are accurate. However, there are no recordings of telephone conversations or 
other discussions available  understandably so, given the passage of time  so none exist 
to support the exchanges she has described, and her recollections face competition in the 
form of relatively contemporaneous documentary evidence from the time(s) of the events. I 
have found more weight in the latter because, overall, they appear to be more consistent 
with the events that unfolded.
I do not find grounds to uphold the complaint about issue 1 and, like the investigator (and for 
the reasons she gave) I am satisfied that Ms M was reasonably well informed about the DCD 
account, about DCDs, about how they worked and about the risks associated with them. The 
terms and risk warnings she was issued and agreed/signed show this, as does the 5 August 
dated notes of her meeting with ML3 on 4 August which included:
In meantime look to enhance yield using DCD s where strike is around desired conversion 
level
Talked through DCD s and how they work, specifically what happens if converted
and, 
Discussed a no of DCD s as follows (Spot at 1.9653)
Strike     Yield pa   Investment   PC
1 9645   5 1276     USD         0 5
1 9645   7 2808     USD         0 5
1.9465   7 3638     USD         0 5This last of three was agreed upon and deal was phoned through  from the meeting room 
at 16 30
 heard [Ms M] confirm that she wished to trade, all details above being repeated back to 
her
Overall and on balance, I have not been persuaded not to rely on these notes, especially as 
they were made a day after the meeting  in contrast to recollections 12 to 14 years after the 
meeting.
Similar findings (and reasons) apply to issue 2. 
My consideration begins with ML3 because it was his advice that led to the beginning of the 
transactions. I have considered the background Ms M presented with regards to ML1 and 
ML2, but her claims about them are in dispute and there is a lack of undisputed or 
undisputable evidence about her contacts with both officials to determine what probably 
happened. However, the same does not quite apply to her contact with ML3. 
As quoted earlier, in the previous section of this decision, the 4 August notes refer to ML 
informing Ms M about its long-term forecast for USD/GBP being $1.75/£1. This is consistent 
with the part of Ms Ms solicitors submissions, on her behalf, to ML which confirmed that 
ML3 told her about this forecast being projected for the period up to around December 2009. 
This forecast is also consistent with MLs FX Weekly publication of 5 August, a copy of which 
has been shared with us, which shows this exact rate as forecast for December 2009. As 
such, there is evidence of Ms M essentially agreeing that ML3 advised her about this rate 
and evidence that his advice was supported by MLs firm wide FX forecast for USD/GBP at 
the time. 
Furthermore, Ms Ms argument that others in the sector had different forecast which 
suggested the likelihood of USD appreciation even up to the level of around $1.5/£1 is not 
supported by the Bloomberg data from the time. I have considered that data, which has been 
shared with us, and, as summarised by ML and quoted above (in the previous section), none 
of the median forecasts from 2008 to 2012 went this far (or even near such a level).
I appreciate that Ms M recalls things differently and that she says ML3 was unclear and/or 
conflicting in his advice, but she also accepts that he gave her this specific advice about the 
long-term projection for $1.75/£1 and his notes say the same so, on balance, I consider that 
his advice in this respect was clear.
There is also evidence on the strategy being agreed with Ms M  which the meeting note 
confirms  and on the fact that it was based on trigger rates which, once reached in the 
market, would prompt each relevant transaction. In this context, it appears to have been 
implicit that each transaction would happen whenever the relevant trigger rate was reached, 
so I do not consider that criticism of there being pressure or a rush, by ML, to transact can 
fairly be made in this issue. The transactions were not time based. They were essentially 
based on market rate movements and agreed rate triggers, and neither party had any control 
over the former.
Besides the notes of 4 August, there is additional and implicit evidence of Ms Ms agreement 
with the strategy in her actions over the two transactions that were reversed. Both appear to 
have been executed at even better rates than the two that preceded them, yet evidence 
suggests that she complained about them because she considered them unauthorised, and 
they were reversed. I am persuaded that, on balance, the absence of such action for the 
preceding two suggests that they met with her agreement (and reflected her agreement with 
the strategy ML3 recommended). I am also persuaded that her objection to the two reversed transactions indicates she was not under MLs or ML3s control as she says or suggests, 
otherwise such an objection would probably have been unlikely and/or MLs reversal of the 
transactions would probably have been unlikely (if it had the total control that has been 
suggested).
The strategy met Ms Ms objective and, for the reasons addressed above, I do not consider 
that it was unreasonable. I have not seen evidence to support and/or establish, on balance, 
her claims about conflicting advice, undue pressure and/or hostility from ML and/or some of 
its officials, so I do not uphold the service related aspect of her complaint. ML/BAE was/is 
entitled to determine its own position on any matter of mediation proposed to it. In another 
case, reasonableness of such a position might (or might not) be relevant, but in this case I 
do not consider that necessary. The key issues in the complaint have been determined, they 
have not been upheld and I do not find cause to make a separate finding on Ms Ms claim 
that ML was unreasonable in refusing to engage in mediation with her.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman