DRN-4431102
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited declined a claim made 
on a group income protection policy.
What happened
Mr H has the benefit of a group income protection insurance (the policy) through his 
employer, the policyholder. Subject to the remaining terms, the policy can pay out a monthly 
benefit if Mr H is unable to work due to illness (or injury) after the deferred period.
Mr H was signed off work with epilepsy and light sensitivity under investigation in 
September 2022. Legal and General declined the claim in April 2023 as it concluded Mr H 
didnt meet the policy definition of incapacity. The decision was appealed. 
In its final response letters dated July and September 2023, Legal and General maintained 
its position to decline the claim and Mr H brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold his complaint. Mr H 
didnt agree, so his complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Legal and General has a responsibility to 
handle insurance claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms and conditions say that Mr H needs to meet the policy definition of 
incapacity throughout the deferred period for the monthly benefit to be paid. 
The policy schedule reflects the applicable definition in this case is suited occupation. That 
means: the insured member is incapacitated by an illness or injury so that he is unable to 
undertake all occupations which we consider appropriate to his experience, training or 
education. 
For this definition an occupation will not be considered to be inappropriate to an insureds 
members experience, training or education on the grounds that:
i. The pay from such occupation may be lower than that paid to the insured 
member prior to the deferred period in relation to his own job or lower than 
the amount of members benefit, or
ii.Such occupation lacks the status or seniority associated with the insured 
members own job.
Its for Mr H to establish that he has a valid claim under the policy, taking into account the 
above. 
I have a lot of empathy for Mr Hs situation; hes been through a very difficult and worrying 
time. I know hell be very disappointed, but overall, I think it was fair and reasonable for 
Legal and General to decline the claim. For the reasons set out below, I dont uphold Mr Hs 
complaint.
Its not disputed that Mr H was signed off work by his GP during (and beyond) the 
deferred period but that doesnt automatically mean that the monthly benefit under 
the policy should be paid. Theres a specific policy term which Mr H needs to 
establish for a claim to be successful. 
The claim form completed by Mr H in February 2023 reflects the symptoms stopping 
him from working to be: being unconscious, difficulty with lighting conditions 
affecting my eyes. And sometimes I can be unresponsive while working without 
knowledge. Further, in answer to what activities of your job can you currently do? 
Mr H responds: Im able to work as normal, however when engaged with a customer 
I cannot risk going unconscious.
Legal and Generals vocational clinical specialists report dated March 2023, around 
the time the deferred period came to an end concludes: based on (Mr Hs) reporting 
today, the member is fit to return to an alternative job role on a phased returnthe 
reason he was initially made absent is due to the risk associated with his insured job 
role, whereby he is having to speak to customers over the phone and the job role 
requires diligence and is deemed to be high risk. Due to this, the employer should 
consider a job role whereby the member has no or limited contact with the customer 
over the phone. 
This report also reflects that Mr H advised that if he was given off-the-phone work he 
would return to work. Although he had not had a major seizure since April 2022, he 
continued to have frequent daily absence seizures (similar to daydreams). Mr H 
reported carrying out some household tasks (such as cooking when others were 
around) and collecting daughter from school, helping with homework, reading and 
playing. He could also manage all self-care tasks independently and spent a few 
hours playing computer games but was limited to what games he could play. 
Mr Hs neurologist report, also dated March 2023, reflects that Mr H continued to 
have frequent blank spells which are likely to interfere with his work as he will not 
be fully aware of his work or his environment during these. The neurologist also says 
that as far as I know, his daily activities of personal care are intact, his cognition is 
not impaired and since 2015 his symptoms have fluctuated. There seem to be 
fewer of the generalised attacks and blank spells have become more frequent. 
After Legal and Generals decision to decline the claim was appealed, it also 
arranged for a transferable skills analysis report to be carried out for Mr H. The report 
is dated July 2023. The author confirmed the documents theyd considered when 
drafting the report including the neurologists report and vocational clinical specialists 
report, both dated March 2023, referred to above. 
The transferable skills analysis report identified Mr Hs transferable skills based on 
his experience and education. And concluded there were three job role matches 
which were suitable, particularly if reasonable adjustments were made, including 
homeworking and flexibility around his work schedule and ability to chunk work. 
Given the contents of the report, I dont think Legal and General has unfairly relied on 
the contents to maintain its decision to decline the claim on the basis that Mr H is 
able to undertake other roles appropriate to his experience, training or education, as 
set out in the policy terms. Legal and Generals Chief Medical Officer also wrote to Mr Hs neurologist setting out 
their thoughts, welcoming the neurologists perspective on them and asking 
questions of the neurologist - Im satisfied - relevant to the claim. Unfortunately, the 
neurologist has been on long term sick leave and hasnt been able to respond. 
However, I dont think Legal and General acted unreasonably by not waiting for the 
neurologist to return before concluding the appeal and issuing its final response. If, 
and when, the neurologist does return to work and provides a response, I think it 
would be reasonable for Legal and General to consider whether this impacts its 
decision to maintain declining the claim.
Mr H has also provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with medical evidence  
such as an occupational health report  dated after the date of the final response 
letter. This has been provided to Legal and General and its explained why it doesnt 
impact its decision to decline the claim. Im only considering what happened up to the 
date of the second final response letter dated 11 September 2023. If Mr H is unhappy 
with Legal and Generals most recent decision, hes free to raise his concerns with it 
in the first instance. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman