DRN-3233704
The complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund payments she made 
after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In 2019, Miss M was contacted by a business on a social media platform with an investment 
opportunity. The opportunity required Miss M to buy crypto currency by sending funds from 
her Barclays account to a crypto currency account opened with L (a crypto exchange), which 
was opened in Miss Ms name.
 
Miss M says the funds from her account with L were then moved to a trading platform with a 
separate company, Ill refer to as B. The funds held with B were traded on Miss Ms behalf.
Miss M says she was told she would get high returns through the trades being conducted on 
her behalf. Unfortunately, it was a scam. Miss M became aware of this when she tried to 
withdraw the funds from B.
Miss M sent three payments in total from her Barclays account to L, all in November 2019. 
The first was for £92, followed by £2,000 on the same day and £1,000 the following day.
Miss M raised a fraud claim with Barclays, who declined to refund her. Barclays say Miss M 
purchased crypto currency via a genuine crypto exchange (L) with the funds from her 
Barclays account, therefore she got the service that she paid for which isnt a scam. They 
said the scam happened on her account with L, not on her account with Barclays so they 
arent liable.
Miss M wasnt happy with Barclays response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Miss Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. They explained Miss M 
wasnt entitled to a refund under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), as 
the payment didnt go directly from Miss Ms Barclays account to the fraudster. As it went via 
an account in her own name with L, its not covered by the CRM Code. Also, the investigator 
didnt feel Barclays shouldve intervened before processing the payments.
Miss M disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying she was coerced into buying the 
crypto currency and that the fraudsters took control of her tablet wiping out her crypto 
currency balance. 
Miss M also raised dissatisfaction with the service shed received from Barclays, saying she 
wrote to them three times and visited a branch trying to raise her fraud claim before Barclays 
successfully logged it.
The investigator looked into Miss Ms point regarding the service she received. They told 
Miss M that Barclays had no record of the letters she sent, and that it was difficult to 
determine what had happened. But there could have been a number of reasons why this 
happened, including the impact of the pandemic and changes to businesses ways of working 
in response to that. The investigator didnt recommend that Barclays should do anything 
further with regards to the customer service point.
As Miss M disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Are the transactions covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code)?
I started by considering whether Miss M is entitled to a refund under the Lending Standards 
Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), which Barclays are 
signed up to.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code 
applies in the circumstances for any of the payments Miss M made and, in particular, 
whether Barclays ought to reimburse her under the provisions of the Code. 
But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. The Code only 
covers APP scam payments when the funds are being transferred to another person and not 
to a consumers own account. In this case, Miss M sent the money to a digital wallet held 
with L in her name, before it moved onto the fraudster. This means I dont think Barclays is 
responsible for reimbursing her because of any obligation under the CRM Code. 
I recognise that Miss M was coerced into sending money to L to buy crypto currency, and 
that the funds ultimately were obtained by the fraudsters.  But as far as I can see the digital 
wallet with L belonged to Miss M and she had ultimate control over what happened to the 
funds in it, albeit that the fraudster mayve also had access to it.
I understand this can be a bit confusing. But in order for me to consider Barclays liable under 
the CRM Code the funds would have to have gone from Miss Ms Barclays account to an 
account held by the fraudster - that Miss M had no control over. I realise that ultimately it 
ended up in the fraudsters account, but the digital wallet is a stop off point on that journey 
and means the loss occurred at L.
But I went on to consider whether Barclays shouldve prevented the payments from being 
made.
Should Barclays have prevented the payments from being made?
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into 
what is fair and reasonable in this case. But a bank also has to be on the lookout for, and 
help to prevent payments, that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. So, Ive taken 
all of that into consideration when looking through Miss Ms complaint.
In total Miss M made three payments. On 25 November 2019 for £92 and £2,000 and then 
on 26 November 2019 for £1,000.
Having reviewed Miss Ms statements leading up to the scam, I dont think the payments 
were so unusual or out of character in comparison to her normal account activity that it ought to have alerted Barclays that she mayve been at risk of financial harm. Miss M had made 
several other payments and transfers for amounts in excess of £3,000 (ranging up to 
£10,000) over the previous three months  whereas these payments were for significantly 
less than this. Whether considering the payments individually, or as a set of three payments, 
Im not persuaded that Barclays shouldve intervened. So, I dont think Barclays acted 
unreasonably in not making enquiries about the transactions before processing them, and I 
cant fairly hold Barclays liable or ask them to refund Miss M.
Ive also considered the concerns Miss M raised about the service she received from 
Barclays. She provided us with copies of the letters she says were sent to Barclays trying to 
raise her fraud claim, however Barclays says it didnt receive them. I am conscious that at 
the time Miss M sent them, we were at the start of the pandemic and its possible this mayve 
impacted on Barclays receiving them. Overall, Im not satisfied I can fairly reach the 
conclusion that Barclays received them and failed to act on them, so I wont be 
recommending they do anything in this regard.
Its very unfortunate that Miss M lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated scam, 
and I understand the whole experience has been hugely upsetting for her. But in the 
circumstances, I cant fairly say Barclays shouldve done more to prevent her losing this 
money, therefore I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Barclays to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman