DRN-3788089
The complaint
Mr A complains that Clydesdale Bank PLC (trading as Virgin Money) discriminated against 
him when he complained about a fraudulent transaction on his account.
What happened
Mr A says he was treated badly when he went into the branch to complain that hed been the 
victim of fraud and he felt he was generally treated differently. He says he was advised to 
call the fraud department, but he was unhappy with the service he received. He says 
sometimes the customer service agents hung up on him and he didnt receive call backs 
when promised. Mr A adds that he had to wait too long for the fraud to be investigated and 
during the calls he was told he was a foreigner and didnt speak English.
Virgin Money agreed that its response timescales were too long, that Mr A hadnt received a 
returned call it promised, and calls were terminated. For this it offered Mr A £150.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He found no evidence 
that Mr A had been discriminated against and considered that £150 was fair redress for the 
customer service issues Mr A experienced.
Mr A did not accept this outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, I need to confirm that this decision will only be concerned with whether or not I 
consider Mr A was discriminated against in his dealings with Virgin Money. His complaint 
about the fraudulent transaction, and associated customer service, is a separate case at this 
service.
Mr A says he was discriminated against both in branch and on the phone. He says that when 
he went into branch to report the fraud it was never raised as a complaint and he feels that 
was discrimination.
Although I cannot be certain what was discussed in the branch, I accept that there were 
delays in dealing with Mr As fraud complaint. However, Ive seen no evidence that Mr A was 
discriminated against during any of his visits to a branch. Mr A said he had to wait over an 
hour in the branch on one occasion, and it was unable to deal with his complaint, but, 
although I agree with Mr A that this was poor service, I cant agree with his assertion that he 
was treated differently for discriminatory reasons.
Ive also listened to the calls where Mr A:
Reported the fraud;
Was talked through transferring money out of his account via his app having been 
into his local branch;
oMr A was advised to return to the branch;
Calls back as there has been no progress on his complaint;
oThe call handler says she doesnt understand, but is referring to the 
circumstances of the complaint;
oMr A gets frustrated when hes told the call will need to be transferred and the 
call appears to be cut off;
Is in the branch and a branch employee calls the bank;
Called back to speak to the Complaints team and was given their direct number;
Received a call from the complaints team;
oMr A was offered £50 for poor customer service;
I acknowledge that Mr A was upset when he was reporting the fraud, and the customer 
service he received could have been better, but I didnt find any evidence of discrimination in 
any of the calls to which I listened. At no point was Mr A called a foreigner, nor was he 
accused of not being able to speak English. But its clear to me that Virgin Money could have 
dealt with this situation better. For example, it has acknowledged that it took too long to 
respond to Mr A, along with terminating certain calls and not returning a call. That would 
clearly have been frustrating and inconvenient for Mr A.
I understand Virgin Money has now increased its offer to £150 for the customer service 
issues Mr A experienced and that offer will be considered as part of his complaint about the 
fraudulent transaction. I dont consider Virgin Money needs to do anything further regarding 
Mr As complaint about discrimination.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman