DRN-3415634
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Santander UK Plc have treated them unfairly in relation to their
mortgage account. Theyre unhappy with the lack of assistance offered during periods of ill
health and financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have a repayment mortgage with Santander. In 2015, unfortunately their
circumstances changed as a result of Mrs Bs ill health and Mr Bs employment
circumstances. They were unable to make the contractual monthly payments (CMP) from
November 2015, and arrears began to build on the account.
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs Bs situation didnt improve enough for them to be able to
consistently afford the monthly payments. And in August 2017, their interest rate product
expired so the mortgage moved onto Santanders standard variable rate (SVR), which
increased their CMP further.
During 2017, few payments were made to the mortgage account, and in 2018, Mr and Mrs B
began making regular payments again but not enough to cover the full CMP.
In March 2019, Mr and Mrs B were able to start making overpayments to the mortgage,
which prevented the arrears from growing any further. But unfortunately, both Mr and Mrs B
were impacted by the global pandemic and so from March 2020 they were unable to make
any payments to the mortgage.
In June 2020, Mr and Mrs B complained to Santander about the lack of support theyd
received in relation to the mortgage. They didnt think Santander had fairly considered their
circumstances, and so hadnt offered reasonable options that would help them get the
mortgage back on track. At that point the arrears on the mortgage stood at around £73,000.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. They said theyd set up several payment
arrangements and had explored the available options to try and help Mr and Mrs B during
the difficult times theyd had.
Mr and Mrs B asked our service to look into the complaint. Our investigator looked into
things and felt that Santander had shown a reasonable amount of forbearance to Mr and
Mrs B, and that the available options had been explored. She did however note that
Santander did have a lower interest rate available that they could have applied to Mr and
Mrs Bs mortgage (the follow on rate). So she recommended Santander applied that rate to
the mortgage account, backdating it to June 2020 when Mr and Mrs B complained. She also
recommended Santander pay Mr and Mrs B £200 for the distress and inconvenience
caused.
Santander accepted the investigators view, but Mr and Mrs B didnt. So the complaint was
passed to me to issue a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 10 March 2022. This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear about the difficult personal circumstances both Mr and Mrs B have
experienced in recent years. Its clear theyve been through a very difficult time. When a
borrower is unable to consistently afford their mortgage payments as a result of ill health or
financial difficulty, lenders are required to treat them fairly  taking into account the
borrowers specific circumstances. So, Ive thought about whether Santander have done that
having considered all the evidence and information available to me.
Mr and Mrs B first started experiencing difficulties with their mortgage payments towards the
end of 2015. During 2016 and 2017, Mr and Mrs B had conversations with Santander to
keep them updated on their circumstances. Some payment arrangements were agreed, and
Mr and Mrs B had explained during those conversations that they expected their problems to
be short term, and were anticipating theyd receive large sums of money in the near future
which they would use to clear the arrears. Given what Mr and Mrs B were telling Santander
during that period, I think the short-term arrangements were an appropriate form of
forbearance given that it seemed the problems with affordability were going to end shortly.
Santander didnt pursue any legal action to recover the arrears, despite the fact that only
four payments were received in an 18 month period. I think they gave Mr and Mrs B an
appropriate amount of time and space to overcome the difficulties they were having at the
time, and to receive the funds Mr and Mrs B said they were expecting to receive and then
pay to the mortgage.
In August 2017, Mr and Mrs Bs interest rate product expired and so the mortgage reverted
to the SVR in September. This increased Mr and Mrs Bs CMP by around 25%. Whilst by
that point Mr and Mrs B had been able to start working again, they werent able to afford the
full CMP, and so short term arrangements were agreed again to allow for more time for the
expected lump sum payments to be received. Looking at what Mr and Mrs B had been telling
Santander about their circumstances at the time, I think that was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs B were paying around £3,000 per month from February 2018, which still didnt
meet their CMP. Although towards the end of 2018 there were a few months where only £1
was paid towards the mortgage when Mr B was unwell again. In February 2019 Mr and
Mrs B had a conversation with Santander about their circumstances, provided details of their
income and expenditure and explained they would now be able to afford to pay more each
month. An arrangement was set at around £300 more than the CMP so that additional
payments could be made towards the arrears. Mr and Mrs B asked about capitalising the
arrears on the account, but Santander explained they could only do that after six consecutive
monthly payments had been made.
I dont think that was unreasonable. When the arrears are capitalised on a mortgage, it
increases the CMP and so commits the borrowers to paying more each month. Given that 
Mr and Mrs Bs payment history had been inconsistent, I think it was reasonable that
Santander wanted Mr and Mrs B to demonstrate they could afford the monthly payment over
a sustained period of time.
Mr and Mrs B did maintain their arrangement, which was higher than the CMP, for four
months before Mr B had to go back into hospital which affected the amount they were able
to pay. However, they were then able to resume the arrangement for another seven months.
In December 2019 and January 2020, I can see that Santander carried out in depth reviews
of Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances. Their income and expenditure information showed they
could now contribute more towards the mortgage arrears, and other options were also
discussed. I can see Mr and Mrs B asked about capitalising the arrears again, but Santander
explained they could only do that after the CMP had been met for 12 months. Mr and Mrs Balso asked about porting the mortgage if they were to downsize, Santander said that a
porting application was unlikely to be approved whilst there were arrears on the account. So
Mr and Mrs B agreed to continue paying as much as they could afford.
Since 2015, Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage had fallen into a significant amount of arrears as a
result of problems theyd both had with their health and employment. But since the beginning
of 2019, their situation had improved somewhat, and theyd been able to consistently pay
more to the mortgage than their monthly payments, bringing down the arrears on the
account. Although the arrears balance was still significant in December 2019 (around
£70,000).
When the conversations took place in December 2019, Mr and Mrs B had 13 years left on
the mortgage at that point. Whilst that is a relatively long time, if the mortgage remained on
the SVR, capitalising the arrears would not have been affordable for Mr and Mrs B each
month as things stood. But if the arrears were capitalised, Mr and Mrs B would have been
eligible for an interest rate product, and they would also have been able to apply to port their
mortgage to a smaller property as theyd thought about doing.
It's clear from the notes of the conversations that Mr and Mrs B were trying to do all they
could to improve their circumstances. They realistically felt theyd need to downsize in order
to reduce their outgoings  but felt trapped as Santander wouldnt allow them to port their
mortgage to a smaller property, and they felt they would struggle to get a new mortgage with
another lender due to their credit histories during their illness. So this was not a
straightforward situation.
I note that Santanders policy at the time said that mortgage arrears could only be capitalised
after 12 consecutive monthly payments were made. Looking at Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage
history, it was March 2020 before they had achieved 12 months of consecutive payments
(with the exception of one month). However, unfortunately by then Mr and Mrs B had been
impacted by the pandemic and stopped making payments whilst a payment deferral was in
place.
Lenders are entitled to set their own policies in relation to how and when they might
capitalise arrears on a borrowers mortgage. Whilst there are benefits to capitalising arrears
in situations where the borrowers circumstances have improved, its also important that the
borrowers are not committed to making monthly payments they might struggle to afford in
the longer term. Also, as the arrears are added to the balance  it means interest is charged
on those arrears for the duration of the mortgage until its fully repaid, so can be more
expensive in the long run. So its important that its considered carefully before anything is
agreed.
Given the level of arrears on Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage, I dont think it was unreasonable that
Santander wanted to see that they could afford the monthly payments for 12 months before
agreeing to capitalise the arrears. As a result of circumstances outside of their control, Mr
and Mrs Bs payment history had been very inconsistent, and some months nothing had 
been paid at all. So I think Santander were acting fairly when they said theyd need to see a
consistent pattern of payments over time.
But as I said, by the time Mr and Mrs B had paid 12 consecutive monthly payments, they
were no longer able to make any further payments to the mortgage and had to take a
payment deferral. Whilst I appreciate its clear that Mr and Mrs B were trying to do what they
could to pay the mortgage, given the uncertainty at that time  Im not persuaded it would
have been fair to capitalise the arrears onto the mortgage when they didnt think theyd be
able to commit to making the future payments.For the same reasons, I dont think it would have been reasonable for Santander to have
locked Mr and Mrs B into a lower fixed interest rate product either until theyd been able to
demonstrate a consistent payment history. Particularly as Mr and Mrs B had discussed
selling the property. Fixed interest rates, whilst often cheaper than the SVR, come with fees,
as well as charges if the borrowing is repaid within the fixed rate period. So I dont think it
would have been appropriate to apply a fixed interest rate when the future of the mortgage,
and the property, were so uncertain.
Mr and Mrs B have mentioned that they could have benefited from the mortgage switching to
interest only to help them whilst they were in difficulty. I have thought carefully about this.
Whilst this is something lenders can do to ease the financial burden on borrowers for a short
period of time, I dont think that would have helped Mr and Mrs B to get this mortgage back
on track. I say this because when they initially experienced difficulty, they werent able to
make any payments to the mortgage, and so switching to interest only would not have made
the mortgage affordable for them.
They were able to start making more regular payments towards the end of 2017, but I can
see from the contact notes during that period that Mr and Mrs B wanted to pay as much as
they could afford, which was in their interests, as that meant they were paying towards the
capital rather than just the interest. Based on what Mr and Mrs B were telling Santander
during those conversations, I dont think it would have been in their interests to only have
paid the interest if they could have afforded to pay more.
I do understand that Mr and Mrs B have said that switching to interest only would have given
them more disposable income at the time. But by only paying the interest they would not
have been paying anything towards the capital. Which would have resulted in them having to
agree another plan with Santander about how that capital balance would be repaid over the
outstanding term. So whilst it may have given them more disposable income in some
months, it would have added to the long term debt they still would have needed to find a way
to repay.
I do appreciate Mr and Mrs B were impacted by the pandemic, and theyve since become
unwell again. As a result, they still hadnt resumed making payments by the summer of
2021. Whilst I really do empathise with Mr and Mrs Bs situation, looking at everything thats
happened, Im not persuaded Santander have treated them unfairly when considering the
forbearance theyve given.
I know Mr and Mrs B dont feel like Santander did take their circumstances into account, but
Im afraid I disagree. Looking at all of the contact they had about the mortgage from 2015
onwards, Santander gave Mr and Mrs B the breathing space to recover from their difficulties
without taking any steps towards repossession. They agreed to several payment
arrangements  agreeing for Mr and Mrs B to pay what they could afford towards the
mortgage. Looking at everything thats happened, whilst I appreciate it will come as a
disappointment to Mr and Mrs B, Im not persuaded that Santander ought to have done more
to help, or that there was more they could have offered Mr and Mrs B that would have made
the overall mortgage affordable for them.
The follow on rate
Whilst I dont think Santander were acting unfairly by not offering Mr and Mrs B a fixed
interest rate product whilst they were experiencing financial difficulty, they did have another
rate that they could have applied to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage which wouldnt have carried
the risks that the fixed rates would have.
Following our investigators view, Santander agreed to apply their follow on rate to Mr and
Mrs Bs mortgage account, and backdate it to June 2020. That means that whilst the interestrate isnt as low as some of Santanders fixed rate products, Mr and Mrs B would be paying
a lower rate than they currently are on the SVR.
I agree that Santander should apply this rate to the mortgage and backdate it. But I think
they need to backdate it further  to October 2018. I say this because the follow on rate was
introduced by Santander in early 2018. Ive looked carefully at the contact notes, and I can
see that in October 2018 there was an in depth discussion about the next steps for the
mortgage considering Mr and Mrs Bs situation at the time. During this conversation Mr B
explained that he was having to go into hospital and so wouldnt be able to maintain
payments for the next couple of months. He said that he would still be able to pay around
£1,000 per month but he was aware that wouldnt even cover the interest. Santander said
the interest would be £1,630 and Mr B said that would be too much for him to pay.
I think in that call, Santander had the opportunity to review the interest rate Mr and Mrs Bs
mortgage was on to see if there was anything more they could do in the circumstances. I
think had they done that, they would have seen that Mr and Mrs B were paying more interest
than their other borrowers who had similar characteristics to Mr and Mrs B, but were paying
the follow on rate. So I think by keeping Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage on the SVR when they
could have been paying less on the follow on rate, they were treating Mr and Mrs B less
favourably than their other borrowers with similar characteristics. And in this case, I think that
resulted in unfairness for Mr and Mrs B who were clearly struggling but trying to pay as much
as they could afford.
Putting things right
So in order to put things right, Im persuaded that Santander should re-work Mr and Mrs Bs
mortgage account as if theyd applied the follow on rate to the mortgage from October 2018.
The resulting overpayments, and overcharged interest, should be used to reduce the
outstanding mortgage arrears on the account. Santander will need to ensure they also adjust
any interest that has been charged on those arrears.
Santander will also need to ensure the updated account position is reported to credit
reference agencies.
Mr and Mrs B have experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of Santander
applying a higher interest rate than they needed to from October 2018 onwards. Although I
do appreciate a lot of the stress Mr and Mrs B were experiencing at the time was a result of
their overall situation, rather than what I think Santander had done wrong. As a result, I think
the award recommended by the investigator of £200 is a fair and reasonable amount to
recognise the direct impact of the stress caused by the monthly payments, and arrears
balance, being slightly higher than it should have been. This amount should be paid directly
to Mr and Mrs B.
Responses to my provisional decision
Santander accepted the provisional decision and agreed to the redress I had recommended.
Mr and Mrs B asked me to consider some further points before reaching my final decision. 
Ive summarised these below.
Whilst Santander may have held off taking legal action during the period where there 
were arrears on the account, they still sent letters that suggested otherwise. Mr and 
Mrs B said that the phone calls during this time were constant and repetitive, and the 
follow up letters sent did not reflect the whole conversations that were had. They say 
these letters and calls contributed to their ill health.
They had several earlier conversations with Santander about the interest rate on the account, and so feel that the follow on rate should be backdated to January 2018, 
when theyd asked Santander about other options to help them, but the interest rate 
wasnt mentioned. Mr and Mrs B said that the backdated rate should be 1.99% as 
this is the rate Santander had written to them about in 2021.
They would like me to persuade Santander to allow them to port their mortgage. 
They fear that they will never be offered a mortgage by another lender. They said 
that if they repay the arrears upon selling the property and port their existing 
mortgage, they will have a fighting chance of downsizing and being able to afford a 
smaller home.
They asked me to re-consider the amount awarded for distress and inconvenience. 
They said the pressure and stress of meeting such high repayments, and receiving 
constant letters from Santander was unbearable. The fear of losing their home has 
been the one single most horrific cause of their anxiety, stress and worry. Mr and Mrs 
B say that perhaps an award of £200 per day would be a more realistic figure, or 
alternatively, for Santander to write off the arrears.
They have also queried some of the information contained in the account statements 
and transaction history as they dont feel theyre correct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have kindly sent us copies of some of the letters they received from Santander 
during their periods of financial difficulties. I can understand that receiving these letters when 
they were already stressed and worried about their overall circumstances would have been 
difficult for them. But the letters Ive seen are largely confirmations of payment 
arrangements, and requests for information about their circumstances. The letters do include 
some warnings to Mr and Mrs B that if they fail to make payments under the arrangements, it 
could result in litigation action leading to repossession of their home. And whilst I know that 
wouldnt have been nice to read, lenders are required to inform borrowers of the 
consequences of what may happen if payments arent maintained. 
I also appreciate there were a lot of phone calls that took place over the years. And again, I 
understand why it would have been stressful for Mr and Mrs B to constantly keep Santander 
updated with their circumstances and plans. But it was important that Santander were kept 
informed of the situation so that they could ensure they were managing the mortgage 
account in the most appropriate way based on Mr and Mrs B individual circumstances. I 
explained in my provisional decision why I was satisfied that Santander had demonstrated 
appropriate forbearance and I havent seen anything to change my mind about that. 
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Bs point about when they think the follow on rate should be 
backdated to. But Santander only introduced the follow on rate in early 2018. And having 
looked through the contact history for the mortgage account, Ive found that October 2018 
was the earliest conversation that took place after it was introduced where forbearance 
options were discussed in any detail. So Im still satisfied that the follow on rate should be 
backdated to October 2018 rather than an earlier date. I think thats the earliest reasonable 
opportunity Santander could have been expected to review the interest rate Mr and Mrs B 
were paying, and switch them on to the follow on rate. 
Mr and Mrs B have said that they understand the follow on rate to be 1.99%. The follow on 
rate is a variable rate and is not fixed at a certain amount. Santander will need to explain to 
Mr and Mrs B what the rate would have been for the period they are retrospectively applying 
it to the account.Once this matter has been resolved and the account is re-worked should this decision be 
accepted, Mr and Mrs B will need to engage with Santander about their options for 
managing this mortgage going forward. I understand Mr and Mrs Bs wishes for them to 
downsize and port a smaller balance to a new property. Whilst Santander do have policies in 
place that may prevent them considering an application whilst the mortgage is still in arrears, 
I think theyll need to take a pragmatic approach to any proposals Mr and Mrs B make, as it 
could be that selling the property and porting a smaller balance could clear the arrears and 
make the monthly payments affordable for Mr and Mrs B in the long term. Id expect 
Santander to consider Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances carefully when considering such 
proposals. 
Mr and Mrs B have asked me to reconsider the amount awarded for distress and 
inconvenience. And I think its important for me to note that the £200 Ive provisionally 
instructed Santander to pay is not a reflection of what I think their overall distress and 
inconvenience has amounted to since they begun experiencing difficulties in 2015. I am truly 
sorry to hear about the impact Mr and Mrs Bs overall circumstances have had on their 
physical and mental health over the years, and Im not underestimating how much the stress 
of managing the mortgaging added to that. But I can only instruct Santander to pay for the 
distress and inconvenience caused as a result of something theyve done wrong. 
Ive explained that in the context of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, Santander should have 
applied a lower interest rate to their mortgage account from October 2018 onwards. But Im 
not satisfied that error was the cause of a lot of the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs B 
have told us about, it only added to what was already a stressful time. As a result, Im still 
satisfied that £200 is a fair and reasonable amount to compensate Mr and Mrs B for the fact 
Santander could have applied the lower rate sooner.
Mr and Mrs B have queried some of the information theyve found in the statements and 
transaction histories for the mortgage account. As that is not something weve been asked to  
consider under this complaint, theyll need to speak to Santander directly about their queries.
Putting things right
So having considered all the available evidence and arguments afresh, including the latest 
comments provided by Mr and Mrs B, Santander need to do the following to put things right 
and resolve this complaint.
Re-work Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage account as if theyd applied the follow on rate to 
the mortgage from October 2018 onwards.
The resulting overpayments, and overcharged interest, should be used to reduce the 
outstanding mortgage arrears on the account. Santander will need to ensure they 
also adjust any interest that has been charged on those arrears.
Ensure the updated account position is reported to credit reference agencies.
Pay directly to Mr and Mrs B £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and instruct 
Santander UK Plc to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Kathryn BillingsOmbudsman