DRN-3234034
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the service he received from The National Farmers' Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) when he sought assistance under the roadside 
assistance section of his motor insurance policy. 
All references to the underwriter NFU in my decision include its agents. 
What happened
In October 2021 around 10pm Mr R returned to his car after finishing work but it wouldnt 
start. He called NFU for assistance. NFU said it would be around 4-5 hours wait time for 
assistance. In calls and messages between NFU and Mr R, attempts were made by NFU to 
arrange for a taxi to take Mr R home instead. But after Mr R called a taxi firm, he said it 
wasnt clear if one was on its way as they couldnt speak to the taxi driver, and so he 
decided to walk home. 
Mr R said he was able to jump start his car the following morning and drove it home. He 
called NFU for assistance  but was told he would need to pay a call out fee of £150 as he 
didnt have assistance from home under his policy. However, due to the events from the 
night before, NFU waived this fee and arranged for an engineer to attend. The engineer 
didnt find a fault with the car. 
Mr R had to call for assistance again a few days later as his car wouldnt start. NFU 
arranged for an engineer to attend and he diagnosed that Mr R needed a replacement 
battery. 
Mr R complained to NFU. He wanted it to pay for the costs to replace the battery as he felt 
the first engineer should have diagnosed the problem then. 
NFU apologised for the distress and inconvenience caused. But it said its decision to waive 
the callout fee and attend Mr Rs home to assist with his car was a reasonable outcome to 
resolve his complaint. 
Mr R didnt agree and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought that while 
things didnt turn out to Mr Rs satisfaction on the night he called for assistance, he thought 
NFU had done what was required of it in order to meet its contractual obligations that night. 
Mr R didnt agree. He says he didnt receive the service that was promised under the policy 
terms and conditions. 
So as Mr R didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Rs frustration as to how events unfolded on the night he called NFU for 
assistance when his car wouldnt start. 
Notes provided by NFU show that availability for an engineer to attend at the time Mr R 
called was around 4-5 hours. NFU was able to update the estimated arrival time to around 
two hours. At around midnight Mr R told NFU he intended to walk home which was a 
considerable distance. So NFU offered to arrange for a taxi to collect Mr R. NFU tried four 
taxi firms but were unsuccessful in arranging collection by the time Mr R cancelled the 
request just before 1am. 
I think NFU made contact with an engineer in order to provide assistance to Mr R when he 
called. I appreciate that due to the time of night and the wait time, this wasnt ideal and it 
meant Mr R was going to have to wait longer than expected. Keeping this in mind, when Mr 
R said he would walk home, NFU tried to make arrangements for a taxi to pick him up. But it 
hadnt been able to secure a taxi ride for Mr R when he made his last contact that night with 
NFU and said he walked home. I dont know what else NFU could have done here  other 
than continue to look to secure a taxi as this availability was something outside of NFUs 
control. NFU doesnt guarantee under Mr Rs policy a maximum wait time for assistance to 
attend  but it did provide regular updates to Mr R.
Mr R is concerned that had his wife broken down in the same circumstances, she would 
have been alone and vulnerable and potentially would have been walking home for several 
miles at night. 
I can completely understand Mr Rs concerns here. But I cant comment on a situation that 
didnt happen. We can only look at the individual circumstances of the complaint and what 
actually happened. 
Mr R was able to return to his car the following morning and jump start it so that he could 
drive it home. While I understand Mr R is very unhappy with the way things unfolded when 
he called for assistance, I think NFU did arrange for an engineer to attend at Mr Rs home 
the next day without charge and I think this was a reasonable outcome. 
It seems that the issue with Mr Rs car was with the battery  and as hed been able to jump 
start his car and drive it home not long before the first engineer attended, they found no fault 
affecting the mobility of his car in line with the policy. But unfortunately a few days later Mr 
Rs car wouldnt start  and an engineer was able to diagnose then that the battery needed 
replacing. 
I understand Mr R will be very disappointed with my decision. But I dont think NFU needs to 
do any more. I think Mr R was always going to have to pay for the costs to replace the 
battery to his car. And I think overall NFU did enough to resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman