DRN-3233600
The complaint
Miss K complains that Santander UK Plc closed her account and registered a marker at 
CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Miss K says she was contacted by individuals on social media about receiving money into 
her account for someone else unable to make large cash withdrawals. She met them and 
discussed the scheme which she could benefit from. Miss K says she thought it was dodgy 
but that she was threatened and went along with it. Her account was first used by them in 
late 2018. She raised this matter with police in August 2019 and said it was resolved. But 
Santander wouldnt agree to remove the marker.
Santander said that it hadnt made a mistake. Miss K had received £10,000 into her account 
in November 2018 that had been fraudulently obtained. She had tried to transfer £3,000. 
She had falsely said that this money was from the sale of a car and the transfer to repay a 
loan. She only came to report being a victim herself later on and said that this had been a 
cover story. And Santander said it had spoken to the police and been told that there had 
been no prosecution or evidence to support her claim. It said it had grounds to close the 
account and add the marker.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that there was a 
high bar for adding a CIFAS marker. And here Miss K had said she had given the individuals 
full access to her account. So, they had her card and PIN and could log in to online banking 
and that they used her account. Our investigator said that a similar pattern of spending had 
taken place after Miss K had said that her account was taken over which suggested she still 
had access to it. And there was only one other large transfer into the account which didnt 
support it being regularly used by others. It was unclear why Miss K would have needed to 
be involved in attempting the £3,000 transfer. 
Miss K said she didnt have her phone which contained evidence about what happened as 
the police had taken this. But the police had indicated that there wasnt evidence to support 
her claim. And Miss K hadnt been consistent about what the police had done stating that 
they had investigated and found she was a victim. But then that no further action was taken 
as Miss K was no longer being bothered by the individuals. Miss K had stated that what she 
was being asked to do sounded dodgy. So, she would have been aware that the funds going 
into her account werent legitimate and our investigator said she thought Miss K was 
complicit in what was happening.
Miss K didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She wanted the official crime 
report from police to be considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Santander 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
Ive looked closely at the short summary police report Miss K has provided dated August 
2019. This states that the earliest date an alleged offence of blackmail was committed was 1 
October 2018. And that she had complained about being befriended by individuals at 
university who had forced her to allow money to be put into her account. And they made 
threats that if they didnt get their money they would harm her and her family. She had been 
too scared to report this until then. The outcome had been that this had been filed with no 
further action.
Miss K told this service that she had provided the police with her phone. And that this had 
the messages on as well as a picture of one of the men who committed the fraudI also 
gave them names and information of the people who threatened me such as their 
whereabouts. There were also social media messages of her being threatened and a call 
and text history.
I can see from the case notes from Santander that it made a number of attempts to contact 
the police and it states that it then had a detailed conversation about this case. There was 
no action from police it stated because there hadnt been evidence to support what Miss K 
alleged.
I note this and agree with our investigator that there is limited information to support Miss Ks 
account being taken over by others as she says. During the period up to this large credit of 
£10,000 being received the account appeared broadly to operate as before. And I also agree 
that she wouldnt have needed to attempt the £3,000 transfer herself if those individuals had 
free access to her account.
Miss K accepts she knew things werent right with this scheme. She has no evidence to 
support that she was coerced into this. And although there could be a number of reasons 
why police didnt investigate things further, there is a dispute about whether there was any 
evidence. Shes also suggested at times that she was accepted as a victim and things were 
resolved and that by agreement no further action resulted. I take into account that this was a 
serious allegation for her to make.
There are two broad versions of events which involve Miss K either in one being complicit 
and a willing participant in what happened or in the other her not being. I consider Santander 
investigated what Miss K had to say before deciding to retain the marker. And that Miss K 
has now had an opportunity to present her side of things to this service too. While her 
explanation isnt impossible there is nothing to support it beyond her going to the police later 
on. There are reasons why she may as she says have delayed making a report. But the 
report itself isnt conclusive and doesnt resolve things as Ive said. Having balanced 
everything, I dont find Miss Ks explanation the most likely one for the reasons Ive set out.
Santander says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Miss K  received fraudulent funds 
into her account. So, Ive looked at whether Santander was fair to apply the marker, based 
on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that Santander needs to have enough information to make 
a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere 
suspicion. 
Having reviewed Miss Ks account of events and the evidence Santander has provided, Im 
satisfied that Santander had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Miss K received fraudulent funds into her account and didnt report this to Santander 
at the time.
- She authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Santander had grounds to believe that Miss K had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
So, I dont have a basis to find Santander acted unfairly by closing her account and adding 
the CIFAS marker. I know that this will be a great disappointment for Miss K who has 
explained the effect this is having on her ability to operate accounts elsewhere.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman