DRN-1870584
 
The complaint
Miss R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has debited her account with a series 
of payments she says she neither made herself nor authorised anyone else to make. They 
total more than £2,400.  
What happened
Miss R has an account with NatWest. One feature of the account is that it can be operated 
through the bank's mobile app, which Miss R had installed on her phone at the relevant 
time. 
Between October 2017 and  March 2018 a number of relatively small payments were made 
from Miss R's account, using the mobile banking app on her phone. Miss R says she didn't 
notice the payments until later, and that she neither made them herself nor authorised 
anyone else to make them. She says her ex-partner knew her phone's password, but he 
didn't know the security information needed to open the banking app. 
NatWest didn't agree to Miss R's request for a refund of the payments. It said they'd all been 
made using the banking app, which had only been installed on Miss B's phone. During the 
course of the transactions, Miss R had herself accessed her account using the app, but had 
not raised any issues around the payments at the time. It concluded that Miss R had either 
made the payments herself or had authorised someone else to do so, and so it wouldn't 
refund them. 
Miss R referred the case to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. She 
thought it more likely than not that Miss R had either made the payments herself or allowed 
someone else to do so. She didn't recommend a refund. Miss R didn't agree with her 
conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
I'm satisfied that the mobile banking app installed on Miss R's phone was used to make all 
the payments. She's suggested that the app might have been installed on another phone as 
well, but I don't believe that to be the case. In order to install the app, a customer would 
need to provide additional security information, and Miss R hasn't suggested that was 
available to anyone else. Perhaps more significantly, the bank's records don't indicate that 
the app was installed other than on Miss R's phone; I think it likely that those records are 
reliable. 
I note - as the bank did - that Miss R appears to have accessed her account fairly regularly. 
Whilst I've described the amounts involved as relatively small, Miss R's account balance was relatively low too for most of the time. The payments would in my view have been significant, 
relative to the balance. I think it more likely than not that Miss R would have noticed them. 
Overall, therefore, I believe that Miss R made the payments herself, authorised someone 
else to make them or allowed someone access to her account, using her mobile phone and 
app. Whichever it was, I don't believe it would be fair to require the bank to make a refund. 
But, even if I were to reach a different view and conclude that Miss R didn't authorise the 
payments at the time, I believe she must have found out about them fairly soon after they 
were made. By not referring them to the bank at the time, she in effect led the bank to 
believe they were genuine; it could fairly be said that by her silence she ratified them after 
they'd been made. Again, in those circumstances, it wouldn't be fair for her now to say 
something different. 
For these reasons, I don't believe Miss R has been treated unfairly by the bank.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I don't require National Westminster Bank Plc to 
take any further steps to resolve Miss R's complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman