DRN-3554979
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that Logbook Money Limited (LBM) was irresponsible to have 
agreed credit for her.
What happened
LBM provided Mrs A with a loan of £1,000 in August 2019. The total amount of £2,800, 
including interest and charges, was to be repaid in 78 weekly instalments of £36 or about
£154 a month (figures rounded).
This was a log book loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Mrs A provided 
LBM with a bill of sale for her car. This meant that if Mrs A didnt make her loan 
repayments LBM could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of her vehicle.
Mrs A missed payments from the outset and within six months LBM had instructed a 
recovery company to collect her car. It seems Mrs A then paid a lump sum to clear her 
arrears which stopped the collection, but she continued to miss weekly payments 
throughout 2020. In May 2021 LBM again took steps to collect Mrs As car which was 
returned to her when she made another lump sum payment. I understand that Mrs A has 
repaid £3,436 altogether, including collection charges, and that her account remains 
open with an outstanding balance of £248.
Mrs A says that LBM didnt look into her finances properly before lending to her. She 
says that she had defaulted on several existing debts, including short term and guarantor 
loans and could not afford more credit. Mrs A also complains about what happened when 
LBM collected her car  she says she was left without her belongings, including her 
childs pram, which left her unable to leave her house. I understand that the car is still 
with Mrs A.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs As complaint and didnt recommended that it be 
upheld. They found that LBM had carried out a proportionate check before lending to 
Mrs A and that nothing in the information it had gathered would have highlighted that she 
couldnt afford to meet her repayments sustainably.
Mrs A didnt accept this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to review and resolve. The complaint came to me and I issued a provisional 
decision on the 17 May 2022 explaining to both parties why I thought Mrs As complaint 
should be upheld. LBM didnt agree with my decision and provided further comments and 
new information for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional findings, LBM said that it reviewed its assessment and still 
thought that the loan would have been affordable for Mrs A. It said that it only lends 
where affordability allows, that it treated Mrs A with forbearance and the current 
outcome was very unfortunate. LBM offered to write off any outstanding balance on 
Mrs As account to bring the matter to a close. 
I want to reassure LBM that I have carefully considered everything its said and have 
reviewed my provisional conclusions in the light of its response. Having considered 
everything again, I remain of the view that LBM was irresponsible when it agreed to lend 
to Mrs A on this occasion because it should have seen that the loan was likely to be 
unaffordable for her, she was having some difficulty managing her existing debt and 
agreeing another loan for her meant she would need to pay a significant proportion of her 
income each month repaying debt. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for LBM 
and I will set out again my reasons for upholding Mrs As complaint and address its 
additional points where relevant. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, LBM will be aware of the relevant regulations so I 
will summarise them here. LBM needed to check that Mrs A could afford to meet her 
repayments out of her usual means without having to borrow further, without missing any 
of her existing obligations and without experiencing significant adverse impacts. LBM 
was required to take reasonable steps to estimate Mrs As income and (non-
discretionary) expenditure, and to estimate any reductions in income where it was 
reasonably foreseeable that a reduction was likely. LBM also needed to have regard to 
any information of which it was aware at the time that might have indicated that Mrs A 
was in, had recently experienced or was likely to experience, financial difficulties.
One of the rules set out by the regulator stated that a business must not accept an 
application for a loan where it suspects that the applicant has not been truthful in 
completing it, for example where the information declared might be inconsistent with 
other information (CONC 5.2A.36R). The overarching requirement was that LBM needed 
to pay due regard to Mrs As interests and treat her fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an 
example of contravening this as targeting customers with regulated credit agreements 
which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, 
health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did LBM complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mrs As application to satisfy itself that she would 
be able to make her repayments without experiencing adverse consequences? If not, 
what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did LBM 
make a fair lending decision?
I said in my provisional decision:
LBM provided this Service with the information it relied on in making its lending decision. 
This included figures for Mrs As weekly income and expenditure of £575 and £191 
respectively, which left her with an estimated £384 a week surplus, or over £1,600 a 
month. It doesnt seem plausible to me that Mrs A would actually have this amount to 
spare each month yet want to borrow considerably less than this, pay interest and use 
her car as security. LBM says it conducted a thorough income and expenditure 
assessment, including a review of Mrs As latest two months bank statements. It was 
unable to provide copies of the statements and didnt give a date range, but Ive 
assumed they would cover July and August 2019.
I think LBM was right to ask Mrs A about her income and expenditure and look to 
independently verify this information. She would need to meet her repayments for 18 
months and the consequences of not doing so were potentially serious in that she might lose her car. But this doesnt automatically mean Ive concluded that LBM made a fair 
lending decision. Ive reviewed the information LBM gathered from Mrs A and copies of 
the bank statements shes provided. Having reviewed everything, I currently think LBM 
got some things wrong in its assessment and didnt take all the information it had into 
account before entering into a credit agreement with Mrs A.
As mentioned LBM recorded a figure of £575 for Mrs As weekly income comprising £160 
of wages, £390 in benefits and £25 from a pension. I think these figures might be broadly 
correct but, with respect to LBM, I dont think it recorded the payment frequency correctly 
and so overestimated Mrs As income. According to what Mrs A has told us and what I 
can see on the bank statements, the correct breakdown seems to be as follows:
£178 child tax credits paid weekly;
£138 of child benefit paid every four weeks;
£29 of DWP Income support paid every fortnight;
£200 of DWP carers benefit paid every four weeks;
£26 of pension weekly (£111 paid monthly).
This gave Mrs A an income of approximately £300 a week or less than £1,300 a month. 
There are monthly deposits into her account of £328 DWP disability living allowance. I 
understand this was her sons benefit, confirmed by the different national insurance 
number and I have disregarded these as being available to help meet Mrs As loan 
repayments. There are also monthly deposits of over £400 which I understand were 
housing benefit payments covering Mrs As rent.
LBM recorded a figure of £191 for Mrs As weekly expenditure, which included an 
amount of £92 for rent. As this was covered, LBM estimated that Mrs A was left with 
expenses of about £100 a week or about £430 a month. However, its clear from Mrs As 
bank statements that her expenses were far higher than shed declared and there were 
some which were not captured in LBMs assessment. For example, Mrs As running 
costs for her car were about £75 higher a month and her spend on food significantly 
higher by at least £300 a month. She incurred monthly telephone charges of £65 and 
water charges of £70, all of which added about £500 to Mrs As monthly expenses.
Furthermore, Mrs As bank statements show a monthly repayment of £158 to a high cost 
guarantor lender and £20 a week to a debt recovery company which is one of the main 
companies used by the courts. A lump sum payment of £150 was paid to this company in 
August. Mrs A was also making payments of £10 a week to a second debt collection 
company and, altogether, it seems to me that she was having problems managing her 
existing commitments. Mrs A was spending about £280 a month on repaying existing 
debt. These payments combined with the repayments for a new loan would mean shed 
potentially need to pay about £440 a month or a third of her income on debt.
Altogether, Ive estimated that Mrs A was spending at least £1,200 on her existing 
financial commitments and some of her living costs, not including non-food related 
household spend, clothing or entertainment for example. I think had LBM considered 
everything fully, it would have realised that it was unlikely Mrs A would be able to meet 
her repayments for this loan without difficulty. So I currently think it treated her unfairly 
when it agreed to lend to her. Mrs As ended up paying interest and charges and 
potentially had her credit file adversely impacted, and LBM needs to take steps to put 
things right for her.
In response, LBM provided a copy of the open banking information it relied on in its 
assessment. It confirmed this was requested and used at the time. This information shows 
transactions for Mrs As main bank account in the months of June, July and August 2019. LBM said it has a robust assessment process in place, part of which involves an income and 
expenditure assessment, arrived at through a verbal interview with loan applicants in 
conjunction with bank statements as supporting evidence. It said it reviewed the assessment 
along with the transaction evidence and still found the loan repayments to be affordable for 
Mrs A.
LBM said that Mrs A told it she was employed and earning £550 a month. However, as it 
couldnt evidence these wages on the transactions it disregarded this income, along with the 
disability living allowance payments Ive mentioned above. It estimated that Mrs A had 
combined income of £372 a week, or £276 excluding the £96 of housing benefit which was 
paid to her to meet her rent. This is broadly in line with my findings that Mrs A had about 
£300 a week income (excluding her housing benefit). LBM said that it believes Mrs A was 
working and may have had wages paid into another account or received them in cash. Ive 
reviewed bank statements for three of Mrs As bank accounts and have seen no evidence of 
income from employment so I think LBM was right to disregard this possibility. 
LBMs revised estimate of Mrs As expenses is £190 a week (excluding her rent and council 
tax). Its original estimate was about £100 a week for these costs and this new estimate 
includes the following: £11 for gas and electricity payments; £17 for water; £32 for car 
running costs; £15 for mobile and internet bills; £65 for food and grocery shopping and £50 
to cover existing debt repayments.  
However, as evidenced on the transaction report, Mrs As expenses were higher again than 
LBMs latest assessment. Mrs A was paying more than £50 a week on her existing debts as 
she paid £30 to two debt collection companies and £158 a month or £37 a week on average 
to her guarantor loan. Mrs A also had other regular costs, for example insurance and local 
supermarket spend amounting to on average £15 a week (in the two months preceding the 
loan). LBM also knew that £11 a week for utility bills was too low  it had a copy of Mrs As 
annual  electricity summary which shows shed spent almost £1,200 on electricity alone in 
the year up to August with an estimate of £1,300 for the next year. Mrs A has provided me 
with evidence of her gas bill estimate of £700, so her average weekly costs for gas and 
electricity could come to about £40, at least £30 more than estimated as these would 
fluctuate seasonally. 
Without considering anything else (for example entertainment, holidays, shopping or child-
related costs), I remain of the view that Mrs A was left with too little to cover her usual 
expenses or to meet any unexpected costs alongside the loan repayment without difficulty. I 
think LBM should have realised this from the information it had. It also knew that Mrs A was 
paying some of her debt through collection companies and agreeing another loan for her 
would commit her to paying about a third of her income each month on debt. Altogether, I 
think LBM treated Mrs A unfairly by agreeing to lend to her on this occasion. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, Ive also considered what happened when Mrs A 
had problems meeting her repayments and LBM collected her car. I can see from the 
customer notes that this happened a few months after she told LBM that shed had a new 
baby. Mrs A says the agent removed the car in the early hours not giving me any 
opportunity to remove my young baby's belongings. I couldn't even leave the house as I 
had no pram which was in the car.
Having considered this point again, I still dont have enough information to find that LBM 
was wrong to have taken Mrs As car. However, Ive found that LBM shouldnt have 
agreed to lend to Mrs A and she was without the use of her car for a time as a 
consequence of this unfair lending decision. As set out on our website, an award of 
between £100 and up to £300 might be suitable where a businesss actions have 
resulted in an impact that lasts a few days, or even weeks, and causes some distress and inconvenience. I think that Ms L suffered distress and inconvenience when her car 
was taken and she needed to take steps to recover it. And so I think that an award in this 
range would be appropriate.
Putting things right
I understand that Mrs A has repaid more than the capital she borrowed and there is a 
relatively small outstanding balance on her account. In order to put things right for her 
LBM should:
a) Waive the outstanding balance on the account; and
b) Refund to Mrs A payments she made above the amount of £1,000 she 
borrowed. To be clear this includes any interest or charges associated with the 
credit or its collection; and
c) Add 8% simple interest per annum to these overpayments from the date they 
were paid to the date of refund; and
d) Pay Mrs A an amount of £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
she experienced when it recovered her car; and
e) Remove any adverse information about this loan from Mrs As credit file; and
f) Revoke the Bill of Sale for Mrs As car if this is still in place and return any 
relevant documents to her if it hasnt already done so.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LBM to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am upholding Mrs As complaint about Logbook Money
Limited and it should put things right as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman