DRN-4379198
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund the money 
she spent on a roof replacement which she says was not finished to the proper standard.
What happened
Mrs M was looking for a tradesperson to carry out a roof replacement. A family member 
found someone, and Mrs M chose them. They quoted £3,000, which Mrs M withdrew in cash 
from her Halifax branch and a cash machine.
Mrs M says the trader later changed the price, that her neighbour felt the work done was 
substandard, and that the trader said theyd return but didnt. So she says shes been 
scammed. Her representative feels Halifax should have prevented this by invoking the 
Banking Protocol and calling the police when Mrs M withdrew the money.
Halifax didnt think they were liable for Mrs Ms loss. Shed given a genuine reason for 
withdrawing the money, the amount was reasonable, and they had no basis for suspicion.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs Ms 
representative appealed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this was a most stressful matter for Mrs M, and I appreciate why she feels 
that her money should be returned.
Its not clear whether this is a matter Id consider to be a scam  an intentional attempt to 
defraud Mrs M  as opposed to a civil dispute between her and the tradesperson. I cant 
know what was said verbally between the two parties about price or any promise to return, 
and I dont have substantive evidence about the quality of the work done. This matter does 
not bear many signs of a scam, such as cold calling, coercion, the work being unnecessary, 
unreasonable prices, or the tradesperson not showing up at all. And generally speaking, 
I would often consider a dispute about the quality of goods and services to be a civil matter.
With that said, to make sure that weve considered all the key points for Mrs M, I will treat the 
matter as a scam for the purposes of this decision. But Im afraid that even if I do so, I cant 
fairly hold Halifax liable for Mrs Ms loss. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mrs M authorised the cash withdrawals involved. So under the 
Payment Services Regulations she is liable for the loss in the first instance. And broadly 
speaking, Halifax had an obligation to follow her instructions  the starting position in law is 
that banks are expected to process payments that a customer authorises them to make.
Halifax did ask Mrs M why she was making the withdrawal, and Mrs M was up front about 
the fact she was paying for a roof replacement. Thats a legitimate thing to pay for, its not 
particularly unusual for tradespeople to ask for cash payments, the amount she was taking 
out was reasonable for the purpose, and the amount was not so large as to be remarkable in 
this situation. So I can see why Halifax didnt feel they needed to intervene further.
But perhaps most importantly, even if Halifax had asked further questions, they would not 
realistically have uncovered any reasonable cause to invoke the Banking Protocol. Mrs M 
was not cold called, nor coerced into having her roof replaced unnecessarily. She decided 
for herself that she wanted her roof replaced, looked for a tradesperson, and of her own 
accord she chose someone who a family member found for her. The price she told the bank 
was reasonable. And at the point Mrs M withdrew the money from Halifax, the factors her 
representative gave for thinking this was a scam  the alleged later price change, unfinished 
work, and failure to return  hadnt happened yet. 
So at the time, the matter would have looked broadly legitimate. Halifax didnt have a good 
reason to stop Mrs M from accessing her own money, let alone to invoke the Banking 
Protocol and call the police. Indeed, it would have been unreasonable for Halifax to take 
such severe actions in a situation where they had no reasonable cause for concern at the 
time. I would not expect a bank to call the police every time a customer wants to pay for 
home improvements just on the off chance that theres a later issue. Id only expect the bank 
to invoke the Banking Protocol if they had sufficient cause for concern at the time  which 
Halifax did not reasonably have here.
Mrs Ms representative pointed out that in other situations, banks have invoked the Banking 
Protocol or weve told the bank it should have done so. But we look at each case on its own 
merits. And in this situation, Ive found that Halifax did not have sufficient reason to invoke 
the Banking Protocol. The representative also made some suggestions about how they felt 
the system should change more widely. I should explain that were not the regulator, were 
here to resolve individual complaints informally. So Im not best placed to comment on the 
representatives suggestions for wider changes.
Lastly, Ive considered what Halifax did to try to recover Mrs Ms money after she told them 
she thought shed been scammed. But as the money was withdrawn in cash, there was 
nothing more Halifax could do to recover it. And as our investigator explained, these cash 
withdrawals were not covered by other initiatives for recovering money lost to scams.
So while I do sympathise with Mrs M, I dont think Halifax can fairly be held responsible for 
her loss. And so I cant fairly tell Halifax to refund Mrs Ms money in this case.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman