DRN-3794973
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that an investment held in their discretionary managed portfolios with 
7IM Financial Solutions Limited (7IM) wasnt suitable for either of them. And they say they 
werent told when the investment was suspended, and a liquidator appointed. They want to 
receive their money back, plus interest.
The complaint is brought on both their behalves by Mr L.
What happened
Mr L held an ISA and a SIPP portfolio. Mrs L held an ISA, a SIPP, and a general investment 
account (GIA). All the portfolios were managed by 7IM on a discretionary basis. Mrs L had 
given Mr L authority to act on her behalf, but she usually attended the annual review 
meetings. Mr and Mrs Ls investment objective was capital growth. Mr L had a moderately 
adventurous approach to risk. Mrs L had a moderately cautious attitude to risk, which 
increased to balanced in December 2018. Mr L had self-certified himself as a sophisticated 
investor.
The portfolios had been opened with a different business which was purchased by 7IM in 
2018. 7IM are responsible for complaints about the previous business and, for ease, I will 
refer to 7IM as the business throughout my decision.
From May 2017 to January 2018, 7IM invested in a fund, which Ill refer to as X. £90,020 
was invested in X Mr Ls SIPP and £38,000 was invested in Mrs Ls GIA. X was an open-
ended collective investment scheme, authorised outside the UK and part of a protected cell 
company.
In June 2019, dealing was suspended in X, and in January 2020 a liquidator was appointed. 
Mr and Mrs L told us they have, to date, received a part payment of £53,000 from the 
liquidator.
Mr and Mrs L say they werent made aware of the suspension or liquidation of the fund until 
February 2021. And after that the only communication they received was in response to 
Mr Ls questions.
Mr L said he had concerns about the investment from the outset and didnt think 7IM had 
carried out sufficient due diligence before it decided to invest in X. He said that X was too 
risky and too much was invested in the fund. He said 7IM described it as a fixed income 
investment, but that its advertised 6% yield and high illiquidity didnt equate to a low-risk 
investment. Mr L said he twice asked 7IM to sell X, but his instructions werent carried out. 
7IM didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr L was an experienced investor who was fully 
aware of the investment in X and had approved it. 7IM said the investment in X was 
appropriate within a diversified portfolio. It said Xs managed wind down process wasnt 
unusual for a less liquid investment and it was only necessary to notify Mr and Mrs L of the 
situation when it became apparent the process was going to take longer than anticipated.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was 
acceptable to include some higher risk products alongside lower risk ones within the portfolio 
and he didnt think the decision to invest a small proportion of the portfolios in X was 
unsuitable. The investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs L would have acted differently if theyd 
found out about the suspension and liquidation earlier than they did.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree. Mr L said, in summary, that:
He and Mrs L werent treated fairly  other investors were able to sell their holdings back 
to the owner of X.
7IM hasnt explained why his requests to sell X were ignored.
The investment note about X was written after the investment in X and X was never 
intended to be held in discretionary portfolios.
7IM suspended dealing in two of their funds which included holdings of X. And 7IM has 
paid compensation to investors in these funds for losses incurred during their 
suspension. Its fair that Mr and Mrs L should be treated similarly and receive 
compensation.
They are still not receiving any information about X  they havent received any 
correspondence for around a year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
The portfolios were held in each of Mr and Mrs Ls names, rather than jointly. For that reason 
Ive considered the suitability of X for Mr L and for Mrs L separately. But firstly Ive 
considered the nature and risks of X and 7IMs regulatory obligations for including X in its 
portfolios.
The X investment
X was a non-mainstream alternative investment fund, not authorised or regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Such funds would generally be considered high risk, 
although 7IM told us that, because it was a fixed interest asset, it classed it as low volatility. 
Mr L has provided commentary about how he thinks investment decisions were made at 7IM 
and he says the investment in X took place before 7IMs recommendation note was 
completed. I cant comment on the procedures followed by 7IM and what Mr L thinks might 
have happened. My role is to decide whether 7IM acted fairly and reasonably in the 
management of Mr and Mrs Ls portfolios. If they have concerns about the way 7IM operated 
more generally, they can report their concerns to the FCA. That said, 7IM has provided evidence to satisfy me that its research note was produced in February 2017 which was 
before the investment in X took place. And I havent seen anything to suggest 7IM didnt 
think X should be included in its discretionary managed portfolios.
As a non-mainstream alternative investment fund, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
did not allow 7IM to promote X to retail consumers, unless they were sophisticated 
investors. In this case, 7IM didnt promote, or advertise X to Mr and Mrs L. 7IM was acting 
as discretionary investment manager. There was no restriction on 7IM including X in Mr and 
Mrs Ls discretionary portfolio. But it needed to ensure the inclusion of X was suitable and in 
Mr and Mrs Ls best interests. And I think it needed to take particular care, bearing in mind 
the FCAs view that investments like X shouldnt be generally promoted.
Its important that, in considering the investment in X, that I take account of the suitability of 
the portfolios as a whole. Its generally acceptable, for example, that a high-risk investment 
can be included in a low-risk portfolio, provided there is an appropriate mix of investments 
which means the overall risk of the portfolio is suitable. This is set out in 7IMs terms and 
conditions which say:
. We will have regard to your general investment objectives and degree of risk 
indicated in the relevant Client Agreement, Client Profile and/or Client Risk 
Questionnaire. When providing you with services, we will rely on any personal and 
financial information which you disclose. These factors will be applied to the 
composition of your portfolio as a whole and not necessarily to individual investments 
within it (5.1)
So Ive focused on whether the portfolios as a whole generally met Mr and Mrs Ls agreed 
investment objectives and risk profiles.
Mr Ls portfolio
7IM was responsible for ensuring Mr Ls ISA and SIPP portfolios remained suitable for him, 
taking into account his investment objective and his attitude to risk.
Mr L wanted to achieve capital growth over the medium to longer term and hed confirmed 
he had an investment time horizon of at least 15 years. Hed agreed he had a moderate 
capacity for loss; thats because he wasnt reliant on his investments to fund his day-to-day 
expenditure and he held other investments elsewhere.
Mr L was an experienced investor and was assessed as having a moderately adventurous 
attitude to risk. I can see Mr L had to complete a reasonably detailed questionnaire to 
assess his risk attitude, and I dont think the result was inappropriate for him, given his 
knowledge, experience, and investment time horizon. He had also self-certified as a 
sophisticated investor. I dont think this was inappropriate, given what Mr L has told us 
about his knowledge and experience. 
When it was purchased, the value of X was around 6% of the total value of Mr Ls SIPP 
portfolio; so, a relatively small percentage of the total. I find the portfolio was well-diversified 
and continued to meet the agreed target allocation of 60% higher risk, or high volatility, and 
40% lower risk, or low volatility, investments. Mr L argues that X should have been 
categorised as high volatility whereas 7IM categorised it as fixed interest and, therefore, low 
volatility. But, taking into account the relatively small value of X in relation to his portfolio as a 
whole, Im satisfied the portfolio remained broadly aligned to the agreed asset allocation, 
however X was categorised.7IM told us it saw investment in X as an opportunity to include a less traditional asset in 
Mr Ls portfolio. And it explained that, at the time it invested in X, inflation, interest rates and 
bond yields were very low, and its view was that interest rates and inflation could move 
higher and have a negative impact on traditional bond values. In the circumstances, I dont 
find the inclusion of X in Mr Ls diversified portfolio was unsuitable. And I dont find 7IM acted 
without due consideration for Mr Ls best interests. 
Mr Ls investments were managed on a discretionary basis. So there was no requirement for 
7IM to seek his agreement to any transactions. But its clear that in early May 2017, Mr L 
had discussed the assets in his portfolio. Following that discussion, 7IM emailed Mr L to say:
We are still looking to getX into the mix and therefore bring your portfolio more into line 
with our Risk Group 4 and 5 models and, more importantly, increase the level of 
diversification in your portfolio.
The email went onto suggest what funds would be sold to make the purchases and said, if 
you are happy with these suggestions, I will go ahead and get the trades on.
Mr L replied, almost immediately, to say Happy for you to proceed as suggested.
To be clear, even though Mr L agreed to the investment, it was 7IMs responsibility to ensure 
it was suitable for Mr L. But the email exchange doesnt reflect Mr Ls testimony that he was 
unhappy about the inclusion of X in his portfolio from the outset. Furthermore, he met 
regularly with his 7IM wealth manager and received regular valuations of his portfolio. 
Theres nothing in the meeting notes, or 7IMs contact records, to show that Mr L raised any 
concerns about X until after trading had been suspended.
Mr L says that in mid-2020 he gave verbal instructions to one of 7IMs staff to sell X fund. He 
says this didnt happen, and he didnt follow it up until he asked to sell again during a 
meeting in February 2021. Theres no record of Mr L giving a sale instruction to 7IM. And 
I find it surprising that, if he thought hed given an instruction in mid-2020, that he didnt 
query why the sale hadnt happened. Theres no record of a sale instruction in February 
2021 either  but, in any event, by that stage dealing in X had been suspended.
Mrs Ls portfolio
Mrs L had an investment objective to achieve capital growth over the medium to longer term. 
Shed confirmed she had an investment horizon of at least 15 years. And shed agreed she 
had a moderate capacity for loss; thats because she wasnt reliant on her investments to 
fund her day-to-day expenditure and she, and Mr L, held other investments elsewhere.
When Mrs L transferred her investments to 7IM (then the predecessor business), Mrs L was 
assessed as having a risk attitude of 3 out of 7, which 7IM describes as moderately 
cautious. Mrs L later agreed a balanced attitude to risk was more appropriate for her.
As set out earlier, Ive considered whether Mrs Ls portfolio as a whole was suitable for her. 
But Ive also taken into account that Mrs L did not have as high an attitude to risk as Mr L 
and she didnt share his investment knowledge and experience.
When it was purchased, the value of X was around 5% of the total value of Mrs Ls GIA; so, 
a relatively small percentage of the total. I find the portfolio was well-diversified and 
continued to meet the agreed target allocation of 50% higher risk, or high volatility, and 50% 
lower risk, or low volatility, investments. As noted above, whether X was categorised as high 
or low volatility didnt make much difference to the asset allocation because of the relatively 
small value of X. I think its also important to note that Mr and Mrs L had other investments held outside of 7IM 
and 7IM took this into account in its management of their portfolios. Ive already set out 
above 7IMs reasons for including X in its discretionary managed portfolios  to introduce 
exposure to a less traditional asset during a time of historically low inflation and interest 
rates. I find the inclusion of a small holding of X (in relation to Mrs Ls portfolio and in relation 
to her investments as a whole) didnt unbalance her portfolio and that the portfolio remained 
sufficiently diversified. Overall, I find the portfolio remained suitable for Mrs Ls needs and 
circumstances. And I dont find 7IM acted without due consideration for Mrs Ls best 
interests. 
Communication about the liquidation of X
Trading in X was suspended in July 2019 and a liquidator was appointed in January 2020. 
7IM has provided evidence of its communications with Mr and Mrs L about Xs liquidation 
during 2021. I havent seen evidence of any communication before this. I dont find there 
was an obligation on 7IM to keep Mr and Mrs L notified of what was happening, because it 
had discretion to manage their investments. Having said that, I would have expected it to 
have been mentioned at the annual review meeting in February 2020 which took place 
shortly after a liquidator had been appointed. But I dont find that knowing about the 
suspension and liquidation would have made any financial difference to Mr and Mrs L - there 
wasnt any action they could take, or ask 7IM to take, which would have made their 
individual position any better.
Mr L says some clients were able to sell their positions back to X. And he says investors in 
7IM funds which held X received compensation. 7IM had different obligations in its role as 
fund manager to that of its role of discretionary investment manager. My role is to consider 
the individual circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint and I cant find 7IM treated them 
unfairly following the suspension of trading in X.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman