DRN-2927924
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S complain that Santander UK Plc didnt treat them fairly when they lost money 
to someone purporting to sell them a car.
What happened
The details of this case were clearly set out by our investigator when she wrote to Santander 
upholding Mrs and Mr Ss complaint. As such the facts are well-known to both parties and I 
dont need to detail them at length here.
But, to recap in brief, Mrs and Mr S were looking to purchase a car. Theyd found one that 
looked suitable, listed for sale on a well-known online marketplace. Mrs and Mr S carried out 
a comprehensive online vehicle check, contacted the seller and arranged to inspect the 
vehicle in person.
During their inspection of the car, they checked the logbook and verified that the accessible 
Vehicle Identification Numbers (VIN) correctly matched. The seller showed them his driving 
licence and the name and address matched that on the logbook. All seemed in order and 
they were satisfied with the vehicle.
Mrs and Mr S agreed a price of £9,000 with the supposed seller. Mrs and Mr S describe him 
as being a relatively elderly man, and he initially asked them to pay in cash, explaining he 
didnt use online banking. Mrs and Mr S werent keen to make this size of payment by cash, 
believing that would be riskier than a bank transfer. The man eventually agreed that they 
could pay by bank transfer to what he said was his daughters account. He suggested 
Mrs and Mr S should describe the payment as paying a friend to reflect this arrangement.
Mrs and Mr S made an initial payment of £200 by Faster Payments transfer from their joint 
Santander bank account. When the seller confirmed receipt, they sent a further payment for 
the balance, £8,800. Having arranged tax and insurance, Mrs and Mr S returned home with 
the vehicle.
Just over 14 days later, the Police visited Mrs and Mr S at home, and took the vehicle from 
them. The Police said Mrs and Mr S had been the victim of a sophisticated deception 
whereby the vehicles identity (including its number plates and the accessible VIN plates) 
had been switched for that of another vehicle of the same make and model. This had been 
done to disguise the fact that this vehicle was stolen. In short, the vehicle was not the one 
Mrs and Mr S had believed they were buying. The car has since been returned to its legal 
owner.
I understand that further Police investigations have led to the arrest of a suspect. The Police 
have said they believe the seller was attempting to sell further stolen vehicles, that hed 
given Mrs and Mr S a false name and false identification. The Police believe he may have 
been the front for a larger criminal gang. As such, recovery of any money from the suspect 
was unlikely. Whats more, Mrs and Mr S had no insurable interest in the vehicle and so 
were unable to claim for the loss against their car insurance.
Mrs and Mr S reported the loss to Santander. In turn, Santander made an attempt to retrieve 
the two payments from the recipient bank. However, it appears nothing remained to be 
recovered.
In short, Mrs and Mr S were left without the car and without any reasonable prospect of 
recovering any of the money theyd paid. 
Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
authorised push payment fraud (APP scams) in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Santander didnt think it was liable to reimburse Mrs and Mr S for their losses. It said the 
CRM Code didnt apply to the payments they had sent because theyd received the item they 
paid for. It didnt think there had been social engineering involved and thought this was 
simply a dispute with an untrustworthy seller. In its final response, Santander said this had 
not been a true APP scam. However, Santander paid Mrs and Mr S £100 because it 
considered it could have handled their fraud claim more promptly.
Mrs and Mr S didnt accept this and asked us to consider their complaint.
Our investigator thought this had been an APP scam, and further that the CRM Code did 
apply. She said Santander ought to have refunded Mrs and Mr S in full under the terms of 
the CRM Code. She recommended that Santander should additionally pay the higher sum of 
£175 in respect of distress and inconvenience.
The bank didnt accept these findings. While it accepted Mrs and Mr S were the victims of an 
elaborate fraud, it thought this was a private buyer/seller civil dispute and as such 
specifically excluded from the CRM Code. It suggested the remedy should instead be for 
Mrs and Mr S to sue the suspect to recover their loss. 
In light of the disagreement, Ive been asked to review the complaint and reach a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached broadly the same outcome as that reached by our 
investigator and for similar reasons. In summary, I am satisfied that:
 The relevant payments fall within the scope of the CRM Code. I consider Mrs and 
Mr S were the victims of an APP scam here. The seller does not appear to have 
merely been untrustworthy, but rather a showed a clear intent to defraud. I do not 
consider this to be the type of civil matter excluded under the CRM Code.
 Under the terms of the CRM Code, Santander should have refunded the money 
Mrs and Mr S lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case.
 I acknowledge there exists a possibility (albeit remote) that Mrs and Mr S might later 
be able to recover part or all of their loss from the suspect the Police have now 
apprehended or from an associated criminal gang. I dont consider this possibility 
should prevent Santander from reimbursing Mrs and Mr S under the CRM Code now 
(nor would it have at the time Mrs and Mr S first reported the matter to Santander). Santander may choose to obtain an undertaking from Mrs and Mr S to entitle it to any 
money recoverable elsewhere by Mrs and Mr S.
 In the circumstances, Santander should now fairly and reasonably refund the money 
Mrs and Mr S lost.
 The money was sent from Mrs and Mr Ss current account. It is not clear how they 
would have used this money if Santander had reimbursed them when it should have 
done, so Santander should also pay interest on the money refunded at the rate of 8% 
simple per year. This interest should apply from the date Santander first declined to 
reimburse Mrs and Mr S until the date of settlement.
 I consider it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances that Santander should in 
addition pay a higher sum in respect of the distress and inconvenience its actions 
have resulted in. It has already paid Mrs and Mr S £100 and now should pay them a 
further £75.
I have carefully considered Santanders representations  including those given in response 
to our investigators assessment  detailing the reasons it considers Mrs and Mr S should 
not be refunded under the CRM Code. But these do not persuade me to reach a different 
view here. I am satisfied the CRM Code applies to Mrs and Mr Ss case, and I am not 
persuaded Mrs and Mr S failed to meet their requisite level of care under the CRM Code (a 
failure to meet that level must be established for Santander to choose not to reimburse 
under the terms of the CRM Code at the time).
Firstly, while I accept this is a relatively uncommon scam, I am satisfied the CRM Code 
applies here for the following reasons:
 Mrs and Mr S were tricked into transferring a total of £9,000 to an account controlled 
by a fraudster. It is not disputed that after making the payments they were able to 
drive away in a vehicle. But the ownership of that vehicle did not pass to Mrs and 
Mr S  they did not receive what they paid for. The information I have seen  
including that relating to the Police investigation  persuades me on balance that 
there was never any intent on the part of the seller for this to have constituted a 
legitimate sale. The seller was not the owner  nor was the seller acting on behalf of 
the legitimate owner  this was a stolen vehicle disguised in order to obscure that 
fact. Mrs and Mr S fell victim to what was a sophisticated deception designed to 
defraud them of the money they paid in good faith. In short, the seller obtained 
money by deception. This was an APP scam.
 I find the exclusion in the CRM Code for private civil disputes, such as where a 
Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods [] but has not received them 
has not been fairly applied by Santander in this case  and this case should not be 
excluded on that basis. I understand and agree with Santanders point that the 
exclusion should not be read simply as referring narrowly to legitimate suppliers. But 
I am not persuaded the exclusion is intended to apply to scenarios where losses 
have occurred through an APP scam intended to obtain money by deception  and 
as I have explained above, that is what I consider happened here. I find Mrs and 
Mr S were the victims of an APP scam, and one within the remit of the CRM Code. 
 As set out above, I am therefore satisfied that this was an APP scam, and one 
covered by the CRM Code. The CRM Code contains an overarching provision: to 
increase the proportion of Customers protected from the impact of APP scams, both 
through reimbursement and the reduction of APP scams. Santander argues that it 
need not reimburse because there is the possibility of recovery of funds from the 
seller following his identification (and arrest on criminal charges). But while I have 
carefully considered Santanders point here, I am not persuaded the CRM Codes 
intent to protect customers from the impact of APP scams would be met by requiring 
Mrs and Mr S to pursue what the evidence here suggests would most likely be a 
futile attempt to recover funds directly from the arrested individual (or an associated criminal gang). Of course, if it should later prove possible to recover any monies from 
the perpetrator(s), double recovery of the loss by Mrs and Mr S would not be a fair 
outcome. But Santander can ask Mrs and Mr S to undertake to transfer to it any 
rights they may have to recovery elsewhere. So I find the remote prospect of 
recovery elsewhere is not a reasonable barrier to Santander considering these scam 
payments under the CRM Code or to reimbursing Mrs and Mr S in line with the CRM 
Codes provisions.
 In all the circumstances, I am satisfied these transactions fall under the remit of the 
CRM Code, and given that Santander is a signatory, it follows that the CRM Code is 
applicable to Mrs and Mr Ss losses.
Secondly, Im satisfied that Santander has not shown that Mrs and Mr S failed to meet their 
requisite level of care under the CRM Code. In particular I find it has not established that 
they lacked a reasonable basis of belief prior to making these payments because:
 Ive not seen anything that I consider should reasonably have led them (in advance 
of the purchase) to have any real concerns about this not being a legitimate sale. 
While Mrs and Mr S had negotiated a relatively low price for the vehicle, Im satisfied 
this was not too good to be true.
 Before sending any payment, Mrs and Mr S had taken several precautions. Theyd 
paid for an online vehicle check, which hadnt uncovered anything untoward. Theyd 
physically inspected the vehicle and checked the VIN number (the chassis number) 
against the logbook. Unfortunately, it seems the readily accessible VINs had been 
altered to match that of the cloned vehicle. Im persuaded this was part of the 
deception.
 Mrs and Mr S were shown a driving licence with a name and address matching that 
shown on the logbook. It now appears the licence was a fake, with the Police 
apparently establishing the seller was not who he claimed to be. But I find that it 
would likely have given Mrs and Mr S a reasonable basis for believing they had 
verified his identity. I also find the explanation they were given about the reason for 
paying the mans daughter was plausible in the circumstances. I think Mrs and Mr S 
did enough here to have a reasonable basis for believing they were paying the 
person they were expecting to pay.
 I think the precautionary steps they took here were enough here to have a 
reasonable basis for believing this was a legitimate transaction for genuine goods.
 The risk that this could be a stolen vehicle was one that I find would have likely 
appeared a remote one to Mrs and Mr S, given theyd met the supposed seller in 
person and carried out an inspection of the vehicle  none of these having raised 
concern.
 Thinking here about all the circumstances in this case, including the sophistication of 
the deception and the numerous checks Mrs and Mr S completed before making a 
payment, Im persuaded that, overall, Mrs and Mr S both acted reasonably and had a 
reasonable basis for belief here.
In summary, I find that the CRM Code is applicable here. I find that Mrs and Mr S met their 
requisite level of care under the CRM Code and were therefore entitled to be fully 
reimbursed in accordance with the provisions of the CRM Code.
Distress and Inconvenience
Mrs and Mr S have explained about the distress and inconvenience they have been caused 
by everything that happened. While most of the distress and inconvenience they describe 
stemmed from the actions of the scammer, not Santander, I have taken account of the 
extent of the impact on Mrs and Mr S attributable to Santander itself - through its handling of 
the matter. Santander accepts this wasnt handled as well as it should have been and has 
already paid Mrs and Mr S the sum of £100. Awards for distress and inconvenience are a matter of discretion, and I believe such an 
award should fairly be paid in this case. In all the circumstances I consider Santander should 
pay Mrs and Mr S a further £75 (in addition to the £100 it has already paid them) in respect 
of the material distress and inconvenience it caused them here.
Putting things right
To put matters right, Santander UK Plc should pay Mrs and Mr S the following:
the sum they lost  i.e. £9,000  within 28 days of receiving notification of their 
acceptance of my final decision; plus
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Santander initially declined to consider Mrs and Mr Ss 
claim for reimbursement under the CRM Code to the date of settlement; and,
a further £75 (in addition to the £100 Santander has already paid) in respect of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs and Mr S by its handling of the matter. 
Santander may require Mrs and Mr S to provide an undertaking to assign to it their rights to 
any monies they might elsewhere be entitled to recover in respect of this loss. If Santander 
asks Mrs and Mr S to provide such an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded 
may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking. Santander may treat Mrs and Mr Ss 
formal acceptance of the terms of my final decision as being sufficient for this purpose. 
Alternately, Santander would need to meet any costs in drawing up an undertaking of this 
type.
My final decision
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mrs and Mr S ought 
to have been fully refunded under the CRM Code. I therefore uphold Mrs and Mr Ss 
complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay them compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman