DRN-3315159
The complaint
Mrs N says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LaH), irresponsibly lent to her. 
She says that she was in a debt spiral when LaH approved the loans. And so, she couldnt 
afford the repayments. LaH shouldve seen this and not lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about five home collected loans LaH provided to Mrs N between 
August 2017 and August 2019. Some of the information I have been provided about the 
lending is in the table below. 
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 09/08/2017 £750 45 04/04/2018
2 04/04/2018 £1,500 78 28/08/2019
3 08/08/2018 £500 45 24/04/2019
4 24/04/2019 £800 46 26/02/2020
5 28/08/2019 £585 24 19/02/2020
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Ns complaint. She said that the loans 4 and 5 shouldnt have 
been advanced. This was because she thought the lending pattern itself was harmful.
LaH disagreed it said that the payment patterns didnt indicate a reliance on credit, Mrs N 
was simply choosing to use it. And it thought the adjudicator had only looked at the pattern 
of lending across the sector, rather than the specifics of this case. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that LaH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make 
sure Mrs N could repay her loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may come a 
point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the 
lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
Mrs N didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont comment 
further on this lending, save to say I agree that LaH wasnt acting incorrectly when it 
approved these loans. And they were part of the borrowing relationship Mrs N had with LaH. 
So, they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans she took.
Ive also considered the pattern of lending up to loan 4 and I think the lending history and 
pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that further lending would likely be 
unsustainable. So, I think LaH was irresponsible to continue lending after this point.
This is because Mrs N had now been borrowing for around 20 months. Loan 4 was for a 
similar amount to loan 1 but Mrs N still hadnt repaid loan 2 which was for a much higher 
amount. So, her overall repayments and indebtedness had increased significantly. 
And looking at the point of sale information its reasonable to say that Mrs N didnt have a lot 
of spare income. And adding this to the increase in indebtedness makes it reasonable to say 
that it LaH shouldve been concerned that Mrs N couldnt repay this lending sustainably. 
Ive considered the points LaH made in response to the adjudicators view. It says that there 
wasnt any real evidence that Mrs N was in difficulty. For example, she didnt have any 
problems repaying her loans. But these arent new points  theyre factors already taken into 
account in the adjudicators assessment, and they dont demonstrate to me that the lending 
from loan 4 was sustainable. I think the lending pattern itself demonstrates difficulty. 
LaH also commented on the way we look at these types of complaint, and in particular it said 
that it didnt think that the way we had considered Mrs Ns complaint, with an emphasis on 
repeat lending, was fair. But we have corresponded in some detail about how we look at this 
type of lending to LaH. And it has received much more in depth decisions about why we 
have reached some broader conclusions about this type of lending, particularly repeat 
lending. I wont repeat these here. And, whilst LaH clearly doesnt agree with some aspects 
of our approach, I dont think the way I have considered this complaint is unfair.  
So the points raised by LaH havent changed my decision and Im upholding this complaint 
about loans 4 and 5.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LaH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs N from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs N may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs N in a compliant way at this time.Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs N would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LaHs liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
LaH shouldnt have given Mrs N loans 4 and 5.
A) LaH should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs N towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) LaH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs N 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs N originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LaH should pay Mrs N the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Mrs Ns borrowing for loans 4 and 5 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mrs Ns credit 
file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LaH to deduct tax from this interest. LaH should give Mrs 
N a certificate showing how much tax LaH has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mrs Ns complaint. 
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman