DRN-3077739
The complaint
Mr Cs representative has complained, on his behalf, about the pension transfer of his 
preserved benefits in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension 
policy (PPP). It says that Mr C was advised to transfer by Carnwyllon Wealth Management 
Ltd (CWM) and another financial business (which Ill call Firm B). The representative 
considers that the advice provided to Mr C was flawed and has resulted in him suffering a 
significant financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel) announced that it would be examining
options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The
consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits,
one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory
fund designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes
when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit
accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related qualifying conditions 
relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Cs 
employer would be set up  the BSPS 2. 
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit 
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was 
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in 
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor 
scheme, the BSPS 2, the PPF or into a private arrangement, such as a PPP.
A deadline was set for members to notify the scheme administrators as to their choice in 
December 2017.
Mr C was 55 years old at the time of meeting with CWM in October 2017 and was an active 
member of the defined contribution scheme. Hed accrued 38 years service in the defined 
benefit BSPS, and at the normal date of scheme retirement  65  he could expect a full 
pension of £27,863 pa. 
Mr C had received a transfer value of £530,235, which was guaranteed until 11 December 
2017.
In the suitability report dated 30 October 2017 issued by Firm B, Mr C was described as 
being uncomfortable with the options provided to him relating to the BSPS and he was 
concerned about the prospect of it entering the PPF. 
Mr Cs objectives were recorded as being flexibility of income and the facility to retire early, 
flexibility in the format of any death benefits, control over the timing of access to the tax free 
cash, and control over how his funds were invested. 
Mr C was advised by Firm B to transfer his deferred benefits and Mr C accepted Firm Bs 
recommendation.
Mr Cs representative complained on his behalf to both CWM and Firm B in April 2019. In 
response, CWM said that it hadnt provided the transfer advice to Mr C and referred his 
representative to Firm B.
The complaint was subsequently referred to this service and one of our investigators 
considered the matter. He said the following in summary:
He didnt think that CWM was responsible for the advice given to Mr C to transfer. It 
was simply the introducer to Firm B.
He noted that Mr C had met with CWM both before, and then after, the transfer for 
ongoing advice, and that it received a fee for the introduction to Firm B. But the 
complaint was about the suitability of the transfer.
CWM didnt have the relevant permissions to advise on the pension transfer, and the 
evidence didnt support the position that it had provided Mr C with any advice on this.
He acknowledged that CWM had completed some paperwork, which it then passed 
to Firm B, but it was the latter which produced the transfer and suitability reports, 
which contained the recommendation to Mr C.
The agreement between Mr C and Firm B set out the fee it would receive in respect 
of the financial review and recommendation it would provide  and the receiving 
pension provider also confirmed that Firm B was the advising firm for the transfer.
It was clear from the documentation that Firm B was providing the transfer advice, 
which involved assessing whether it was suitable for Mr C based on his 
circumstances and objectives.
He couldnt know what was discussed in the meetings between Mr C and CWM, but 
even if it could be evidenced that CWM had intimated that transferring was a good 
idea, Firm B was still responsible for making the suitable recommendation. Had Firm 
B not become involved, the transfer wouldnt have proceeded.
Although he noted that the application form seemed to have been completed before 
Firm B assessed the suitability of the transfer, it was completed and signed by Firm B 
rather than CWM. And the product provider had confirmed that there was further 
communication between it and Firm B after this, but before the benefits were 
transferred and the receiving pension policy was established.
Mr Cs representative disagreed, however, and requested that the matter be referred to an 
ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice, and what I consider to
have been good industry practice at the time.
I think it would be helpful if I firstly set out the scope of my assessment in this matter  that 
is, what I can and cant consider when deciding the outcome of the complaint. And given that 
the complaint isnt about Firm B, I can only comment on that business responsibilities in the 
most general sense, and where relevant to the involvement of CWM in this matter. I wont be 
able, and it wouldnt be appropriate, to comment on whether or not it fulfilled those responsibilities.
I note that Mr Cs representative hasnt specified its objections to the investigators findings, 
other than to request an ombudsmans review. But having considered the evidence relating 
to CWMs involvement, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and 
for the same reasons.
CWM has confirmed that it didnt advise Mr C on the transfer, and the reason that it referred 
the matter to Firm B was because it didnt have the necessary permissions to do so. And 
theres no documentary evidence that it advised Mr C to transfer. 
CWM may have received an introducers fee for the referral to Firm B, but this doesnt point 
to it having given any transfer advice to Mr C. I also acknowledge the possibility of 
discussions having taken place prior to the referral which might have given Mr C the 
impression that transferring would be in his best interests, but it was Firm B which was 
responsible for the formal advice. And I think its more likely than not, or at least to be 
reasonably expected, that Mr C would have placed more store in a written recommendation, 
which would, or at least should, have taken into account his circumstances and objectives, 
than he would in any prior discussions with CWM about his options.
And so my conclusion must be, on a fair and reasonable basis, that it wasnt CWM which 
provided the transfer advice to Mr C. As such, I wont be requiring CWM to pay any 
compensation to Mr C or take any further action in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman