DRN-2942965
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the service he received when he made a claim to Vanquis Bank 
Limited (Vanquis).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When Mr R brought a claim to Vanquis under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
he was upset that the business took too long to answer it. He was also unhappy about the 
business response to his claim. That latter issue is being dealt with separately so Im only 
considering the delay here.
Mr R first contacted Vanquis in mid-April 2020 and there was a short and I think acceptable 
delay before they sent him forms to complete to provide further information about his claim. I 
can see that Mr R had difficulty contacting Vanquis thereafter. Several calls were curtailed 
when Mr R was unable to get through and Vanquis didnt provide an outcome on his claim 
until late October 2020.
I understand that for some of this time Vanquis would have been operationally impacted by 
the pandemic, but I think its fair to expect them to have found new ways of working: at least 
by May 2020 when the Financial Conduct Authority who regulate activities, considered that 
firms had now had enough time to imbed new systems.
  
Putting things right
I dont think a reasonable person would expect to wait six months to receive an outcome to 
their claim or to have so many problems communicating with the business. Considering the 
impact and all the circumstances I think Vanquis should pay Mr R £50 in compensation for 
the poor service he received in connection with his section 75 claim.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Vanquis Bank Limited to 
pay Mr R £50 to compensate him for the poor service he received.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman