DRN-3339158
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the charges PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) have placed on her 
account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs L, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs L acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The agreement said that a balloon payment of £4,973 and a final instalment would be due 
on the account 37 months after it started, and if Mrs L wished to retain ownership of the 
vehicle.
Mrs L says that she contacted the business to refinance the car on or around that time, but 
Ive seen no record of that.
As the business hadnt been informed of the intention to refinance they assumed Mrs L had 
exercised her right to purchase it (as they were entitled to under term 5.4 of the contract). 
PSA sent arrears letters to Mrs L in October 2018 and January and February of 2019 to 
chase the outstanding payment. In April 2019 they explained to Mrs L that she would incur a 
repossession and trace charge of £312 (as they were entitled to do under section 9 of the 
agreement) as theyd passed her account to collections. That charge was in line with the 
charges stated in Mrs Ls finance agreement. At that time Mrs L was about six months in 
arrears and from their system notes I cant see that Mrs L had agreed to refinance the car at 
that point. So, I think PSA were entitled to make that charge.
In February 2021 PSAs system notes show that they advised Mrs L the arrears on the 
account were over £1,060. Mrs L paid some of it and a repayment plan was set over three 
months for the rest. But Mrs L didnt honour those payments. I understand Mrs L thinks PSA 
prevented her from making the full payments as she says their online portal wouldnt 
accommodate larger payments. But I can see Mrs L had been provided with PSAs bank 
details and I think its reasonable to suggest she could have made payments directly. I dont 
think theres evidence PSA did anything wrong there.
PSA contacted Mrs L in February 2021 to explain her account was over four months in 
arrears. In those circumstances Id expect them to default the account and seek possession 
of the car, so I dont think they did anything wrong when they subsequently repossessed the 
vehicle. In those circumstances a repossession fee could be applied as the terms of the 
finance agreement allowed one.
As PSA were clearly aware Mrs L was struggling financially Id expect them to be 
understanding and to show some forbearance. I think they did. I can see that they approved 
payment plans and offered some gestures of goodwill and a payment break. I understand 
Mrs L is upset that PSA continued to pursue the debt and possession of the car whilst this 
service were considering her complaint. I can understand this must have been frustrating 
and upsetting but Im afraid that whilst this service can ask a business to stop collection 
activities it has no power to insist a business does so.
In all of the circumstances, I dont think there is evidence that PSA have done anything 
wrong here and Im not asking them to take any additional action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman