DRN-4203020
The complaint
Mr S was advised by Total Financial Services Limited to switch his Scottish Widows
personal pension into an Old Mutual plan in 2016, and the following year to switch funds
within the Old Mutual plan. He says that he was wrongly advised to make these switches
and also to cease making contributions in 2018.
In 2016 Total was an appointed representative of Intrinsic Wealth Limited, which is now
known as Quilter Wealth Limited. In 2017 it changed to become an appointed representative
of Intrinsic Financial Planning Limited, which is now known as Quilter Financial Services Ltd.
Quilter Financial Services Ltd has accepted responsibility for all the issues Mr S has
complained about, and Ill be referring to it as Quilter throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr Ss late wife was in poor health and in May 2016 they decided to seek advice on
accessing the tax-free cash sum from his Scottish Widows retirement account, worth about
£170,000. Mr S was aged 55 at that time, so hed just become entitled to this sum.
A meeting took place in their home on 6 June 2016, when Quilters adviser completed a fact
find of Mr Ss circumstances and objectives. He was earning £32,000pa and intended to
retire at age 67. His Scottish Widows policy had resulted from a transfer from Prudential 
about three years earlier, on advice from the same adviser. He was about to increase his 
contributions to that plan up to £356 per month gross. It was invested in Scottish Widows 
Pension Portfolio 4. 
Mr S has recently clarified that he was still paying an ongoing advice charge of 1%pa on the 
Scottish Widows plan. He also had another Group Personal Pension (GPP) with Royal 
London which wasnt affected by this advice  he and his employer were also contributing to 
that plan.
Quilter recommended Mr S transfer to the Old Mutual plan and redirect his £356pm
contributions to it. It issued a 22-page suitability report, plus appendices, on 18 July 2016.
This noted that Mr Ss risk profile was balanced - point 3 on a six-point scale ranging from 
risk averse to adventurous. This was selected partly because Mr S would be unhappy if his 
pension lost more than 10% in any one year. An appendix to the report said that:
In general, Balanced investors prefer not to take too much risk with their investments, but will do
so to an extent. They tend to prefer lower risk assets, but realise riskier investments are likely to
give better longer term returns. As a result, they realise that by taking a balanced level of risk the
opportunity for increased returns is higher.
Balanced investors typically have moderate levels of knowledge about financial matters and they
may have some experience of investment in riskier assets.
Balanced investors can take some time to make up their mind on financial matters and can suffer
from regret when decisions turn out badly.
The transfer took place in August 2016. After taking tax-free cash of about £43,000, the
remainder was invested in the Vanguard Life Strategy 40% Equity fund. The advice was paid
for by an initial fee of £3,099 and a replacement ongoing advice arrangement was set up, 
costing 1%pa.
Mrs S died in November 2016. Subsequently in December 2017 Quilter recommended that
Mr S switch from the Vanguard fund into the Quilter Investors Cirilium Balanced Portfolio. It
noted Mr Ss attitude to risk at this time was unaltered but hed changed jobs, earning the
lower amount of £17,500pa. The reasons for switching were set out in another suitability
report dated 14 December 2017.
Quilter has provided two versions of this report with the same date. Its not clear which was
sent, so Ive considered both. They say that Mr S wanted to try and achieve better fund
performance, by investing in an active multi-managed fund in wider asset classes. It
referred to these other asset classes as commodities, hedge funds and private equity. The
adviser explained that they would reduce how much the portfolio fluctuated (either down or
up), because their value did not move in sequence with the traditional assets of shares,
gilts/bonds, property and cash. There were five Cirilium portfolios to choose from, and this
one was aligned to Mr Ss attitude to risk. It was said to be more actively managed as the
fund managers picked the best funds to invest in within the portfolio.
In around April 2018 Mr S moved to a different Quilter adviser. He says that he decided to
stop his contributions to the pension (which had reached £373pm with indexation) at the
November 2018 annual review meeting, after that adviser assured him that the existing
funds would be sufficient for him to enjoy a similar income in retirement to what he was
earning. His salary by then was about £20,000.
There were no other changes to the pension, although the adviser and Mr S did meet in both
November 2019 and November 2020. These meetings assessed that Mr Ss attitude to risk
was the higher level of moderate as a result of a questionnaire, which on both occasions
was reclassified back to balanced after further discussion  as Mr S was noted to be
worried about markets at that time.
Mr S subsequently complained to Quilter that the advice it gave wasnt in his best interests.
He noted that in addition to the fees the fund lost another £3,000 in the months following the
Cirilium transfer. Quilters advice had also delayed access to his tax-free cash sum, which he
and Mrs S then didnt have time to spend on quality time together before she died. He also
took issue with the advisers denial that he had assessed Mr Ss pension would be sufficient
if he stopped contributing. And Mr S noted that he hadnt received any contact or letter since
November 2020 to arrange a financial review. He went on to cancel the ongoing advice 
charge in August 2022.
In its response to the complaint, Quilter said, in summary:
It was satisfied the 2016 recommendation was suitable for his needs and
circumstances and had placed Mr S in a fully informed position.
The 2017 fund switch was also suitable given his attitude towards investment risk,
and because he wanted to invest in a different asset class.
His circumstances, objectives, and investment strategy were reviewed at the annual
review meetings, and the plan remained suitable based on his attitude to risk and
desire for active fund management.
The complaint was prompted by poor performance, for which it isnt responsible.
It had tried to contact Mr S to arrange a review in late-2021, by phone, letter and text
without success. As a result, it was willing to refund the ongoing charge deducted
from his plan from the date of the last review letter (18 November 2020) onwards  
and pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience he suffered.
Mr S hasnt accepted this offer and referred his complaint to the Financial OmbudsmanService. He has reiterated that he hadnt switched in 2016 out of concerns about Scottish 
Widows performance. He had only wanted to access tax-free cash. He wanted to be shown 
where the adviser pointed out that he had the option of staying with Scottish Widows. He 
believed that the adviser was inappropriately influenced by links to Quilter.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 May 2023. Ill repeat the key parts 
of my findings below.
Quilters advising status
In his typed note of the June 2016 meeting, the adviser recorded that hed explained the 
independent status of TFS Ltd and that we are able to offer advice and plans from the whole 
of the market. That isnt consistent with the Keyfacts about our services and costs 
document it gave to Mr S, which said that it offered restricted advice on products from a 
panel of providers it had pre-selected  and disclosed that Old Mutual owned 100% of
the share capital of Quilter (which was at that time known as Intrinsic). However the 
suitability report which he later sent to Mr S explains:
we only offer advice on limited types of products, or products from a limited number of
companies. However, owing to your current needs and objectives to review your personal
pension plan, taking into account that wanted to access a pension plan with lower costs
than your current arrangement, I have had to research the wider market to make the
appropriate recommendation as outlined in my report below.
I can see from the evidence on file that the adviser did run a Defaqto search of the whole
market, although the criteria were locked down to such a high degree that only Old Mutual
and AEGON were left showing. I cant see how this search would be of much use unless the
adviser could see where Mr Ss existing provider, Scottish Widows, sat in relation to these
more favoured offerings. In December 2017, the same adviser stated that he was no longer
an independent adviser [but] if this range of products and providers cannot meet your needs
or objectives, I am able to source a solution from the wider market.
The cost of transferring
Irrespective of Quilters precise advising status, the core issues I need to address are the
same. Although Mr S and Quilter do not agree on his precise reasons for needing tax-free 
cash, they do seem to agree that this prompted him to seek advice from Quilter. The adviser 
noted in 2016 that Mr S appreciated the cost involved to set up a new arrangement (i.e. the 
advice cost) - but believe it is worth paying for advice costs if overall the portfolio costs are 
reduced. That is essentially what I have to consider: whether Quilters advice provided 
sufficient value for money for Mr S when the total cost is taken into account. And Im not 
currently minded to say that it did. Ill explain why.
The 2016 fact find suggests Mr S was seeking a more modern platform-type pension which
was potentially cheaper. And that he wanted to continue receiving advice face-to-face
annually as he had been doing in the past. Of the options under discussion, including multi-
manager funds and discretionary fund management, Mr S rejected single manager basic
managed funds in favour of blended investment funds. This was how the Vanguard option
with Old Mutual was chosen, in part also because it had consistently outperformed the
benchmark for managed funds with 20-60% in shares over the past five years, by some
18%. A factsheet for this fund showed that its total overall charges were 0.24%pa.
I share the doubt expressed by Mr S as to the extent to which he was, in reality, driving
these discussions. They seem to reflect what the adviser thought Mr S should do, but I
accept Mr Ss testimony that he had actually approached Quilter in the first place with a view
to taking the tax-free cash from his pension. Quilter has provided no evidence to suggest
otherwise. Given that Mr S wasnt noted to have particular investment knowledge, and hiswife was seriously ill at the time, I find it unlikely that he would have already been thinking of
specific requirements for the future investment of his pension.
The key features document for the Old Mutual pension explained that it allowed access to
1,250 funds from over 100 fund management groups, allowing Mr S and his adviser to build
a bespoke portfolio. Or alternatively, they could pick from 45 screened funds that had been
fully researched by Old Mutual. However Quilters file also has a brochure of the fund
supermarket Mr S could access through his existing Scottish Widows retirement account for
an additional 0.14%pa. If he wanted to do that, which I doubt is the case here, that would
enable him to access around 1,250 funds in any event.
The Old Mutual illustration took into account the withdrawal of tax-free cash and additional
contributions. It also allowed for an initial adviser fee of 2.4% of the net initial investment
after tax-free cash was taken, and 1%pa thereafter. The total charge for the Vanguard fund
was only 0.24%pa, but there was also an Old Mutual product charge of a similar amount.
As a result, I am having trouble reconciling how the overall impact of charges on the regular
premiums could be as low as 0.3%pa, as shown on the illustration. Quilters comments at
the 2017 review note that the ongoing advice charge was being taken as a percentage of all
the funds, not just the amount transferred from Scottish Widows. And thats also borne out in
the transaction history Quilter has provided, which shows the right proportion of adviser and
product charges being taken from the total fund value.
I therefore think what the illustration shows as the average impact of all the charges on the
amount transferred across from Scottish Widows  of 2%pa up to retirement at age 67 
would be closer to the figure that applies for the entire policy. With 1%pa of this of course
being the ongoing adviser fee. So the next question for me to consider is whether it was in
Mr Ss interests overall to move to an arrangement with total costs of this order.
In the 2016 suitability report the adviser explained that reviews should be carried out each
year in a drawdown arrangement and referred to the need to assess whether the income
being taken was sustainable, and so on. Some of this was not necessary as Mr S wasnt
taking an income. I accept that other aspects, such as reviewing the performance and Mr Ss
attitude to risk, could add some value  but I think the adviser overplayed the benefit of
paying 1%pa for the service he would provide in Mr Ss particular case.
The adviser discussed the charges Scottish Widows levied, which came to 0.68%pa in total
for the product and fund costs. When viewed alone, those costs would be more expensive
than Old Mutuals, although not by very much. The Scottish Widows fund range (without
paying the small extra cost of the fund supermarket Ive mentioned above) was restricted to
30 funds managed by Scottish Widows, 75 managed externally, plus 34 Scottish Widows
portfolios or multi-manager funds. Given that Mr S didnt have a lot of investment experience
(as recorded by Quilter at the time), in my view that range of funds would have been more
than adequate for his needs.
The adviser pointed out that the cost of ongoing advice would be in addition to these 
charges with Scottish Widows. And although it wasnt clear at the time of my provisional 
decision, Mr S has since clarified that he was already paying 1%pa at Scottish Widows. But 
it can be seen that even with ongoing advice costing the same under both plans, the Old 
Mutual proposition would end up being more expensive  at least on the amount being 
transferred across from Scottish Widows  due to the extra impact of the initial charge for 
Quilters advice.
Theres no policy-specific information from Scottish Widows included on Quilters file at all. 
Im unable to corroborate the claimed figures of 0.28%pa for the policy Mr S had, or 0.4%pa for the fund he was in. In fact, a brochure the adviser downloaded from Scottish Widows 
website said that the charge for Portfolio 4 was only 0.1%pa.
I also think the adviser misled Mr S about the impact of his fees because he said in this
letter, with my emphasis: The total reduction in yield taking into account my initial fee but
excluding the cost of ongoing advice is 0.50%, as shown on the Old Mutual illustration,
which is 0.18% lower than the 0.68% annual charge currently made under your Scottish
Widows plan. That was incorrect as the 0.50% doesnt include any adviser fees at all,
although I do note that later on he correctly referred to the total effect of all the charges on
Mr Ss Scottish Widows transfer being 2%pa. I think the overall result is somewhat confusing
as to whether Mr S would in fact be saving anything at all by transferring. And thats
problematic because I think the benefit of him transferring is questionable in this case.
Mr Ss attitude to risk
An assessment of the potential to overcome any higher charges with Old Mutual would need
to include Mr Ss attitude to risk  and hence what growth he might reasonably expect to
achieve. Mr Ss existing Scottish Widows fund choice (Portfolio 4) is benchmarked against 
the ABI 0-35% shares index, suggesting that it was below medium on the risk scale. That 
seems to be broadly consistent with how Quilter assessed Mr Ss attitude to risk. I cant find 
a record of the questions it asked him in 2016, but the 2017 ones included:
People who know me would describe me as a cautious person  Agree
I feel comfortable about investing in the stockmarket  Agree
I generally look for safer investments, even if that means lower returns  Agree
Usually it takes me a long time to make up my mind on investment decisions  Agree
I associate the word risk with the idea of opportunity  Agree
I tend to be anxious about the investment decisions Ive made  Agree
Id rather take my chances with higher risk investments than increase the amount Im saving 
Disagree
Im concerned by the volatility of stockmarket investments  No Strong Opinion
The adviser also noted Mr S would be unhappy about a 10% drop in value over a year  all
of these answers were pointing towards a lower than medium risk. The Vanguard fund
broadly satisfied that. It was a single fund which operated more like a portfolio, so its difficult
to see what advantage that offered over Scottish Widows Portfolio 4. It had performed well in
the past, but that performance wasnt guaranteed to be repeated in future. And the adviser
hadnt compared it to the performance of Portfolio 4 or assessed the likelihood of getting
sufficient extra growth to overcome the higher costs.
Although the 2016 suitability letter referred to the benefits of having so many funds to
choose from within Old Mutual in order to reduce risk, that wasnt the approach Mr S was
taking. He was selecting a single portfolio and giving the fund manager the role of making
those selections (from funds that were passively managed in the Vanguard range) and
regularly rebalancing the portfolio. Thats what was happening in Mr Ss existing Scottish
Widows portfolio.
The adviser also highlighted the future possibility of combining Mr Ss other investments,
such as ISAs, under one wrap account. Mr S had a £6,000 ISA, but it was a cash ISA and it
doesnt seem to me he expected to have significant amounts to invest onto such a platform.
Nor has he done so or been advised to do so, despite having more of the tax-free cash left
unspent than hed planned.
The later fund switch
Although the adviser did recommend switching funds at the next annual review, arguably a
benefit funded by the ongoing charge, I am even less persuaded of the likelihood that thiswould significantly benefit Mr S. He again said the benefit of the new portfolio (Cirilium) was
that Mr S wouldnt need to pick separate funds to invest in within his plan, as the fund
manager would take over all those decisions. But compared with both the Vanguard fund
and Mr Ss original Scottish Widows portfolio, the charges were again going up.
The charges for the Cirilium portfolio are also shown in a factsheet on the file as 1.34%pa
with a 5% initial charge. Im not sure to what extent these charges are correct, as its not a 
factsheet produced by Old Mutual and post-dates the fund switch. But it does suggest the 
Cirilium fund  given its more actively managed nature  had the potential to be considerably 
more expensive than the Vanguard fund Mr S had previously been in, which charged 0.24%.
At Mr Ss attitude to risk, it becomes more important to question whether more superior
performance can be achieved to justify these additional costs  either with the 2016 or 2017
recommendation. Mr S would be paying charges to both the adviser and the fund manager,
even though the adviser evidently had the confidence on both occasions to recommend
those funds because they would be regularly managed and rebalanced. In other words, he 
would not need to take over what the fund manager was doing and select different funds. 
That in my view calls into question the need for the additional ongoing advice service plus 
the new portfolio, which at Mr Ss attitude to risk would always eat up a significant portion of 
the returns he was likely to achieve. The suitability report at this point doesnt adequately 
address why the Cirilium portfolio was worth Mr S paying more for. Its unclear from the 
cursory factsheet provided (from 2019) exactly what assets were held in the fund  there 
was a 38% shares component but also a 35% other which was neither bonds nor cash. (I 
assume from the report that this was commodities, hedge funds and/or private equity). The 
5% cash component was the net effect of a 33% long position and a 28% short position.
Quilters report implied that the presence of these additional assets would even out the 
peaks and troughs in the markets  but that wasnt the same as meaning Mr S would obtain 
any better long-term prospects from their inclusion. In fact the opposite could well be true. As 
Mr S was investing for a term of over ten years until age 67, Im not sure he needed to have 
his portfolio hedged to this extent  or that someone of his limited investment experience 
was able to appreciate how (in Quilters view) these alternative assets would achieve a 
better result for him over that long term. I think Quilter should have been more concerned 
about the costs being paid and whether he could achieve enough growth to justify them.
Did these recommendations benefit Mr S overall?
The (post-dated) factsheet for the Cirilium portfolio indicates that this underperformed its 
benchmark over the four-year period up to November 2017 (and has continued to
underperform since). That is of concern given that Quilter had a potential conflict of interest
in recommending a portfolio that was designed for its own organisation, to Mr S. Im not
persuaded that it managed this conflict adequately. It seems that the recommendation had 
more potential to benefit Quilter and partner organisations through charges, than Mr S.
Ive reached a fairly similar view in respect of the 2016 recommendation too. Mr S already
seems to have had a very competitive arrangement with Scottish Widows. He didnt have the
attitude to risk to mean that, after all the additional charges hed be paying, hed be much
better off at all from making the switch. The only thing that could be guaranteed was the
charges. Sufficient investment performance to make up for them wasnt guaranteed. Its for
all these reasons that I consider Mr Ss complaint should be upheld, and he should be put
into the position as if hed never switched from his Scottish Widows plan.
Ive also considered Mr Ss point about stopping his ongoing contributions. I think the adviserhas made a good point here that It makes no sense for me or any adviser to tell a client to 
stop paying into a pension that wants to & can comfortably afford to. I say this particularly 
as Quilter would stand to benefit from the larger funds resulting from ongoing contributions.
The adviser did record on a fact find that Mr S was concerned about keeping more funds
liquid to help his children, and I think its likely those comments were made. But I also dont
disbelieve Mr S that he had just reassessed his ability to contribute to the pension on such a
reduced salary. That was entirely natural. I cant know whether or not the adviser offered a
view on whether Mr Ss pension pot was sufficient, but I dont think this would have made a
difference ultimately to whether Mr S cut back his contributions. He had plenty of reasons for
wanting to do so, and he still has the funds he didnt contribute to the pension.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr S said that he had nothing more to add, except that in September 2016 his wife was 
diagnosed terminally ill, and the unnecessary delay to accessing his tax-free cash deprived 
them of the chance of something special. He accepts that the exact prognosis of his wifes 
condition could have been foreseen back in May 2016, but he did tell the adviser then that 
they were looking to do a south sea cruise - something they could not ordinarily have 
afforded to do. But unfortunately by the time they received the money they were unable to go 
ahead. He doesnt think that £300 compensation begins to cover the impact of this.
Quilter also responded to the provisional decision. In summary, it said:
My decision should take account of the law, regulators rules and industry good 
practice at the time of the events concerned, rather than being made with hindsight. I 
have been prejudiced by the unsupported claims made by Mr S.
Even though I thought Mr S was focused on his wifes illness, the suitability report 
clearly shows that his future income requirements at age 67 were being discussed. 
The greater overall cost of the switch was mainly due to the upfront fee, and doesnt 
automatically mean advice was unsuitable. Mr S was advised that the Cirilium charges 
were higher. Hes now focused on cost because his funds have performed poorly.
There is absolutely no conflict of interest between the advice Mr S was given and the 
management of the recommended Cirilium fund. There was no incentive for the 
adviser to recommend Quilter above other providers on the approved panel.
The evidence on file does support that Mr S was driving the discussions (about 
wanting a more modern platform-type pension, and rejecting single manager basic 
managed funds in favour of blended investment funds, and so on).
Quilter (the platform), and Quilter Financial Planning Limited are separate legal 
entities, so Quilter Financial Planning Limited cannot be held responsible for any 
potential errors in the illustration. FCA guidance COBS 2.4.8 G says that a firm is 
entitled to rely on information provided to it as accurate.
The adviser correctly states the total effect of all charges for the transfer was 2% in the 
suitability letter, which wasnt confusing and Mr S could have raised queries with the 
adviser if he found it so.
I was somewhat reluctant to concede that reviewing the clients attitude to risk, and 
therefore ongoing suitability, is of much benefit to the client. The 1%pa charge for this 
was within acceptable parameters and fully disclosed to the client.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to assure Quilter that I have considered the regulators rules and industry good 
practice as it applies to pension switching. In addition to the requirement under COBS 9.2.1R to take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a decision to 
trade, is suitable for its client, which Ive been considering throughout my decision, Quilter 
will be aware of the FSAs thematic review into pension switching in 2009. A key finding of 
that review was that some people had been switched to a pension that was more expensive 
than their existing one (or a stakeholder pension) without good reason. So, thats also what 
Ive been considering here.
It's been the expected standard of good industry practice since that time for an adviser 
recommending a transfer to obtain, and evidence, full details of what the ceding policy 
charged; the performance of the funds it was invested in; and a projection of what it could be 
worth at retirement age if contributions continued. These details (including the projection) 
would then be compared with the newly proposed pension.
Perhaps because Mr Ss adviser knew something about the plan with Scottish Widows hed 
arranged previously, he added some details of charges into his report. But these have not 
been corroborated by evidence from Quilter, either at the time or now in response to my 
provisional decision. And as I set about above, when I looked these up I found significantly 
cheaper figures. Either way, if Quilter had put two projections side-by-side in its suitability 
report, the projected fund value from Scottish Widows would I am sure have looked higher 
than the Old Mutual one.
Quilter appears to accept this in its response to my provisional decision, and I think this 
should have been clear to it at the time simply from adding up the charges - notwithstanding 
that there may have been an error in the illustration. It says that the reason the charges are 
higher is due to the upfront fee. And paying this fee doesnt invalidate the advice. I disagree, 
and the outcome of the FSAs thematic review doesnt support what Quilter is saying. 
The initial fee cant be divorced from all the other fees and charges. It meant that by 
retirement, Mr S would end up with less pension benefits unless the new Old Mutual fund 
outperformed his Scottish Widows fund. So, I would expect to see better justification of why 
the Scottish Widows fund was underperforming. There simply wasnt that justification  and 
given that this was a fund and platform the same adviser had decided was appropriate only 
a few years earlier, on balance its unlikely its fortunes would have faded so quickly. Ive 
been presented with no evidence to suggest otherwise.
As Ive said, the Cirilium fund selected later on was, already, underperforming in relation to 
its benchmark. Im not suggesting that Quilter shouldnt be able to recommend funds with 
which it has a connection (providing that is disclosed to the investor). But in this case, 
recommending an underperforming fund which also costs more, without adequately justifying 
why Mr S was not better staying in his existing fund, does become more of a problem when 
it seems more likely to me that Quilters group of companies would benefit from that 
recommendation. I dont think it matters that the adviser was not, personally, incentivised to 
recommend the Cirilium fund. 
Im sorry to learn that Quilter feels Ive ignored the evidence of what its adviser recorded at 
the time of the switch and subsequent fund recommendation. Ive taken into account 
everything Quilter and Mr C has said. When Mr S said that his only objective was to take tax-
free cash from his pension, I took into account that the fact find only has one goal noted: 
GOAL 1:  HE WANTS TFC FROM PENSION. I was also mindful that he was a manager in 
a machinery company. He had no evident expertise in financial services, as in fact Quilter 
noted at the time. 
So, when the evidence on Quilters file suggested that Mr S was seeking a more modern 
platform and had rejected single manager basic managed funds in favour of blended 
investment funds, I found it unlikely that Mr S would have been talking about his pension in these terms. Not least because, as the fact find confirms, he was focused on accessing the 
tax-free cash to make the best of his time with his wife (and at the subsequent advice point 
her loss had led him to change to a lower-paid job). But even in happier times, Mr S doesnt 
strike me as the sort of investor who would benefit from making decisions on an online 
platform, or understand the concept of hedging employed in the Cirilium fund.
In conclusion, therefore, I havent ignored Quilters evidence. Ive weighed it up against 
Mr Ss recollections, and found those recollections more persuasive. Whilst Quilters advice 
did, as a matter of course, highlight he would have a future income requirement in 12 years, 
I dont think that was the driver for the advice he sought from Quilter.
I accept that the adviser did say at one point in the suitability letter for the Old Mutual switch 
that the total charges would be about 2%pa  and that seems to be correct. That doesnt 
alter the fact that hed previously implied that the Old Mutual plan was cheaper taking into 
account my initial fee  which was incorrect. So he was wrongly justifying the advice as 
suitable based on a saving in charges that didnt exist overall. Given this statement I dont 
think its reasonable to expect Mr S to realise he wasnt saving money, after all.
Quilters remaining point is about the cost of the annual review service. Contrary to what its 
suggested, I did accept in my provisional decision that reviewing the performance and 
attitude to risk annually could add some value for Mr S. We now of course know that hed 
already been paying 1%pa to the same adviser for ongoing reviews previously. What Im 
saying is that Im not convinced of the benefit of delegating more responsibility for selecting 
funds to the fund manager (at added cost), with no corresponding reduction in the advisers 
fee for what it seems might involve less work. The end result was that Mr S paid more 
overall, with no corresponding guarantee that the performance would be better to match.
When the FCA has reviewed the market for ongoing advice services it has commented that 
these are often clustered at a small number of price points, typically 0.5%pa and 1%pa  
irrespective of the amount of work involved. Given that Im satisfied that Mr S was of lower 
than medium attitude to risk, a 1% ongoing advice charge alone would have a significant 
proportional impact on the returns he might expect to receive. If Quilter was proposing a 
more dynamic ongoing portfolio solution, I think there was an opportunity for it to review how 
much it would then need to charge him for ongoing advice in addition. If it had done that in a 
way which prevented the new recommendation exceeding the cost of his existing plan, 
including the cost of advice, the outcome of this complaint might have been different.
I recognise that its not this services role to dictate what Quilters fees should have been, but 
Im just noting this for completeness. Ultimately, on taking into account the total cost Mr S 
was actually paying for its recommendations I remain of the view that he wasnt given 
suitable advice. He didnt stand to benefit enough overall from the recommendation unless 
superior fund performance materialised, that couldnt be guaranteed.
Mr S made some comments about the delay in receiving his tax-free cash. When I 
acknowledged his comments I told him the issue here is that, once Quilter does embark 
upon an exercise of comparing his existing pension with potentially another one, it ends up 
taking some time. Even to establish that taking benefits directly from Scottish Widows was 
the best thing to do, is likely to have still involved the same degree of research. 
Ive reflected on what Ive said. Its occurred to me that the adviser could have arranged the 
payment of tax-free cash from Scottish Widows before considering whether a long-term 
switch of the remaining funds was in Mr Ss interests. I dont think the pension switch was 
necessary to facilitate the one goal of accessing tax-free cash noted on the fact-find. Had 
Quilter later investigated whether to switch the remaining funds  which it was entitled to 
investigate and make recommendations on  I think from what Ive seen that remaining in the Scottish Widows plan should have been found to accommodate his needs. But the 
difference would be that Mr and Mrs S would have been able to make use of the tax-free 
cash earlier.
Ive considered carefully whether Quilters offer of £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused is enough to reflect the feeling Mr S understandably has, that he didnt make the 
best use of his remaining time with his wife. Hes told us, I'm not bitter nor angry about this 
but the realisation of what we may have been able to do deeply saddened me. However, this 
will not overshadow the precious memories of our last few months together.
I appreciate Mr Ss comments. But Ive also had to take into account that at the time he first 
went to Quilter with his plans to take tax-free cash, he couldnt know he would get the much 
worse news of his wifes prognosis  which he says he received in September 2016. By that 
point the transfer had already happened. This was undoubtedly very unfortunate timing but 
on balance, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Quilter responsible for all the 
consequences of this. In view of the poor advice it provided, which he feels led to an 
underperformance of his pension plan through higher charges, I remain satisfied that it 
should pay Mr S £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr S would have remained with Scottish Widows, however I cannot be certain that a 
value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. I am satisfied 
what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given Mr S's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Quilter do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Quilter must:
If possible, compare the performance of Mr S's investment with the notional value if 
it had remained with Scottish Widows after having paid out the same tax-free cash 
sum and received the same ongoing contributions. I suspect it may not be possible 
for Scottish Widows to produce this value  and if that is the case I set out 
alternative directions below.
If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no compensation is payable. If 
the notional value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation 
is payable.
Quilter should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If there is a loss, Quilter should pay into Mr S's Old Mutual plan to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Quilter is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr S wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume hes 
likely to be a basic rate taxpayer, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, as 
Mr S would have been able to take a tax free lump sum in respect of his ongoing 
contributions, this reduction should only be applied to 75% of that part of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15% on the part in respect of 
Mr Ss ongoing contributions.
If either Quilter or Mr S dispute that the tax assumption is reasonable, they must let 
us know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified and Mr S 
receives appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this 
assumption once any final decision has been issued on the complaint.
The amount of £300 Quilter has already offered Mr S for distress and inconvenience 
must also be paid.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Quilter should give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr S asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Old Mutual 
pension 
planStill exists 
and liquidNotional value 
from Scottish 
Widows
(or if this is not 
available, see 
alternative 
below)Date of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr S's investment had it remained with Scottish Widows until the end 
date, after paying the same tax-free cash and receiving the same contributions. Quilter 
should ask whether Scottish Widows can calculate this value, explaining that it is on the 
Financial Ombudsman Services instruction.
Any additional sum paid into the Scottish Widows retirement account should be added to 
the notional value calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid to the Old 
Mutual pension. So, Quilter would need to give Scottish Widows a history of these 
contributions.
The withdrawal of tax-free cash should be deducted from the notional value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid, so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. Im not agreeing for Quilter to deduct the initial or ongoing advice fees, as I dont think its advice was suitable for Mr S  and he will now need to find alternative advice at 
his own expense. So this will have the effect of refunding fees to him as part of the 
compensation (if there is a loss), as the notional value will be higher without them.
If Scottish Widows is unable to calculate a notional value, Quilter will need to determine a 
fair value for Mr S's investment instead, using this benchmark: 
- For half the investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index;
- For the other half: average rate from fixed rate bonds. 
The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using the benchmark, 
which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If Scottish Widows is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index is made up of a range 
of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. 
Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr S's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to take 
a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Mr S into that position. It does not mean that Mr S would have invested 50% 
of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, 
I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr S could 
have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and require Quilter Financial Services Ltd to calculate and pay 
compensation to him as set out in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman