DRN-3027401
The complaint
Mr S, as the executor of his mothers (Mrs Ss) estate, complains about the time taken by 
Cofunds Limited trading as Aegon, referred to as the business, to carry out his instructions 
to sell her stocks and shares ISA.  
Mr S remains unhappy with the redress offered by the business, as well as its behaviour.   
What happened
In July 2020, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and forms 
part of my final decision:  
provisionally Im minded to uphold this complaint. Because the business has already 
upheld the complaint, the key issue for me to consider is redress and whether its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, provisionally I think that the sell request 
wouldve completed 10 days sooner than it did, but for the delays by the business. So, 
provisionally I think the business should use the date of 13 March 2020, to calculate redress, 
rather than 17 March 2020.  
Before I explain my decision, I think its important for me to note Mr Ss strength of feeling 
about this matter. Im also very sorry for his loss. I know it must be a difficult time for him. 
Hes provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr S and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
A brief chronology of the events suggests that on 20 February 2020, the business received 
Mrs Ss death certificate and GOP. I understand that on 4 March 2020 the work was picked 
up but incorrectly indexed to a different work stream. So, the valuation (according to the 
business) shouldve been sent out 5 March 2020 but wasnt, until 11 March 2020.  
I appreciate Mr S feels that the process shouldve been completed by 5/6 March 2020. But 
on balance Im unable to agree. A business not being able to perform a text book perfect 
sale, doesnt necessarily mean that it has done anything wrong. 
Whilst I appreciate the business accepts that it made a mistake by allocating the work to the 
wrong work stream, Im not sure why (in the first instance) it took the business 13 calendar 
days to pick up/progress the request from when the documents were received on Thursday 
20 February, and why it still took so long to write to Mr S/the IFA thereafter. Im minded to 
say that this ought treasonably to have been days sooner, notwithstanding the backlog of 
cases the business was dealing with at the time. 
Im aware that on Friday 20 March 2020, the business received instructions to sell the 
investment and make payment  I note it probably couldnt have progressed matters before 
it heard back from Mr S/the IFA. But I think Mr S/the IFA wouldve responded much sooner if 
theyd been provided with the documents sooner. I dont think that theres any dispute that 
the business shouldve picked up the work sooner and processed it correctly.    
I note the business says that it shouldve sold the investments by Tuesday 17 March 2020, 
and so for the purposes of redress, it worked back  six days  from 23 March 2020 when 
the investments were sold down, in order to calculate redress. 
Whilst I appreciate the business methodology, what it says about the SLA, and the 
calculations, I dont think the process is as formulaic as it suggests.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its more likely (than not) that the 
instructions to sell wouldve completed 10 calendar days sooner than it did, but for the 
delays caused by the business. Therefore, I think the business should calculate redress 
using its proposed methodology, but, using the date of 13 March 2020, as the date when the 
units wouldve been sold rather than 17 March 2020.   
In other words, by way of redress, I think the business should compare the unit price of the 
investments on the date they were sold (23 March 2020), with the date they most likely 
wouldve been sold (13 March 2020) and pay the difference, if theres a loss, with 8% simple 
interest. 
The business attached 1% interest to the loss payment, but I think should be 8% interest  
from the date of payment to the date of settlement  to mark the estate being deprived of the 
money.   
I appreciate what Mr S says about financial loss, but Im unable to safely say that the estate 
has lost in the region of between £12,000 to £16,000. There was no guarantee that the 
estate wouldve received the valuation that Mr S got - using the date of his mothers death. 
The value of the ISA is dependent on the stock market, and crucially the date at which the 
units were sold. Thats why I suggested the redress using the date of 13 March 2020, which I 
think is when the sale of the unit probably wouldve taken place but for the delays. 
I note that Mr S was initially told that the sale shouldve taken place on 6 March 2020  as 
per the email from the business dated 16 April 2020. But the business now accepts that this 
was a mistake. I note it says  presumably by way of explanation  that the death certificate 
and the GOP were indexed correctly, but the work was allocated to the wrong work stream 
leading to delays, and it had a backlog of cases. So, despite what Mr S says, I think the 
redress should be calculated using the redress methodology that Ive suggested. 
In circumstances, I think the £350 compensation offered, including a refund of the two 
platform charges, for the inconvenience caused to estate is broadly fair and reasonable. I 
should make clear that Mr S as the representative of the estate isnt technically entitled to 
any compensation, despite the inconvenience hes suffered in pursuing this complaint.  
I appreciate the business comments about the SLA, but I dont think it prevents me from 
reaching the decision I have. In other words, despite giving itself 10 days within which to complete a sale, I still think the request wouldve been completed sooner, but for the delays 
caused by the business. 
It seems to me the SLA  a self-imposed agreement  is in place to ensure that requests are 
dealt with reasonably and within a reasonable amount of time. I dont think its a justification 
for requests not being processed sooner, when they couldve been, but for errors by the 
business. I dont think its reasonable to allow itself 10 days latitude in every single case.
In conclusion, I note the business accepts that it made a mistake in respect of a request to 
sell investments, it therefore accepts that it couldve completed the request sooner, but for 
the delays caused.
However, in this instance, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think the business 
is likely to have completed the request 10 days sooner than it did, but for the delays, for 
which Im satisfied the business is responsible. 
   
I appreciate that Mr S will be unhappy that despite reaching a different decision to the 
investigator, Ive not given him the redress hes after. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't 
what he wants to hear. But on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable 
to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider. 
Mr S responded and accepted my decision. He said:
Many thanks for your email. I have read carefully the conclusion of the Ombudsman and I 
would like to thank you both for the time you have allocated to this case.
I am obviously pleased that the Ombudsman has upheld my complaint and that he has 
carefully considered the facts presented to form a balanced conclusion and taken into 
account my strength of feeling on the matter.
The only further observation and comment that I would like to make is that the Ombudsman 
correctly states that I feel that the process should have been completed on 6th March 2020. 
However, I only stated this date because this was the date given to me by the Aegon 
Complaints Manager that was handling the issue when we were dealing with Aegon directly. 
I have provided the email evidence of this communication.
In my opinion, even if the Complaints Manager was wrong to communicate this date to me, 
then Aegon should have felt obligated in the circumstances to have stuck to this date rather 
than overruling the decision of their Complaints Manager and demonstrating yet another flaw 
in their processes.
The business also responded and but didnt accept my provisional decision. It asked several 
questions and sought clarification. Having considered its submissions, I provided the 
following response:
I note the business says that its not sure if Im saying the time taken to write out when it 
receives the death certificate should not take 10 working days?
Im not suggesting that it shouldnt take the business 10 working days  under any 
circumstances  to respond once it has received the death certificate. I apologise if that 
wasnt clear. What Im saying is that in this instance  notwithstanding whether (or not) a business has 
given itself 10 days to write out  Cofunds couldve written out sooner but didnt because of 
its errors. In other words, it wouldnt have taken as long to write out, but for the errors. 
But looking at the process as a whole  without questioning the businesses internal 
processes  what Im saying is that its likely that the process wouldve been completed 10 
days sooner than it was overall. And thats including the 13 or so days taken to pick up the 
request as well as the incorrect allocation. 
This is why, I didnt agree with Mr S who feels that the process shouldve been completed by 
5/6 March 2020 - because a business not being able to perform a text book perfect sale, 
doesnt necessarily mean that it has done anything wrong. 
Its entirely a matter for the business  in the legitimate exercise of its commercial judgement 
 whether (or not) it reduces its target or not. Its not something that Im asking or advocating 
it do. 
I still believe that on the face of the evidence, and on balance, the sell request wouldve 
completed 10 days sooner than it did, but for the delays by the business. And thats why, 
provisionally I said the business should use the date of 13 March 2020, to calculate redress, 
rather than 17 March 2020.
 
Despite chasing the business and allowing it additional time to respond it hasnt provided a 
further response. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of no new material submissions, my decision to uphold this 
complaint remains the same, for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision.. 
In other words, no new material points have been made that persuade me to change my 
decision. In this instance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have 
been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think the business is likely to have completed 
the request 10 days sooner than it did, but for the delays, for which Im satisfied it is 
responsible. And thats why I still think the business should use the date of 13 March 2020, 
to calculate redress, rather than 17 March 2020.
I appreciate what Mr S says about the dates, but in this instance, I dont think the business 
was obliged to complete the transfer by a date which was clearly said in error. 
I should also reiterate that the business attached 1% interest to the loss payment, but I think 
this should be 8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of settlement  to 
mark the estate being deprived of the money.   
Finally, in my provisional decision I said: 
In circumstances, I think the £350 compensation offered, including a refund of the two 
platform charges, for the inconvenience caused to estate is broadly fair and reasonable. I 
should make clear that Mr S as the representative of the estate isnt technically entitled to 
any compensation, despite the inconvenience hes suffered in pursuing this complaint.  I should make clear that under the rules governing our service, Mr S (as a representative) as 
well as the estate of Mrs S, arent technically entitled to any compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
I provisionally asked the business to pay Mrs Ss estate compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, and that wasnt correct. I have explained to Mr S that I can only tell a 
business to pay compensation for trouble and upset experienced by its customer, not by a 
third party. So, Mrs Ss estate is only entitled to financial loss including a refund of the two 
platform charges.   
Im mindful that the business had previously agreed that it should pay a total of £350 
(including the platform charges) to the estate of Mrs S for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Its a matter for the business whether it keeps to the offer it previously made to Mr S 
for this, although I would expect it to do so. In any case still think it should still refund Mrs Ss 
estate the two platform charges.  
Putting things right
Cofunds Limited trading as Aegon should do the following:  
Pay the difference in value between what Mrs Ss estate received, and what it 
wouldve received, if the sell request had completed by 13 March 2020, plus 8% 
simple interest from that date to the date of settlement. 
Refund the two platform charges. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. 
Cofunds Limited trading as Aegon should calculate and pay redress as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman