DRN-2558818
The complaint
Ms D complains that Homeserve Membership Limited mishandled a home emergency 
insurance policy.
What happened
This final decision will name Homeserve, but it wont identify any other party.
In 2018, Ms D took out a Homeserve plumbing and drainage policy at the introductory 
annual premium of £12.00. The policy contained provision for automatic annual renewal 
unless Ms D cancelled it. In 2019, Ms D allowed a renewal.
For the year from 7 March 2020, Homeserve sent a renewal letter proposing the premium of 
about £270.00, payable by quarterly instalments. On about 9 July 2020, Ms D complained to 
Homeserve that shed called to cancel the policy, but it had taken two instalments of about 
£67.00 each
Homeserve cancelled the policy on about 9 July 2020. Ms D first contacted us in August 
2020 asking for a refund of the two instalments. In mid-September 2020, Homeserve wrote a 
final response declining the complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Homeserve had acted fairly.
Ms D disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
Homeserve keep changing their mind. One minute they say she hadnt rung and next 
they say she rang on 7th then its 9th. 
They say they cant trace ex-directory numbers then change their minds.
The only number Homeserve had for her was her mobile number. She used that for 
the first year but used her ex-directory landline ever since. She doesnt give her 
mobile number unless she has to.
She wouldnt have rung to confirm she would like to agree to pay a 300% increase.
Homeserve sent her a letter in October 2020 saying dates mixed up and they should 
have been clearer on the renewal price.
She took out a new policy with another provider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Homeserve referred to Ms Ds complaint as having been made on 7 March 2020 when it 
wrote its final response in September 2020. I dont condone the making of mistakes in final 
response letters. But I accept that Homeserve didnt intend to suggest Ms D had rung in 
March 2020. It intended to respond to her complaint made in July 2020.
In October 2020, Homeserve sent Ms D a standard letter. It was intended to clarify the 
format in which it had provided information in the 2020 renewal letter about the comparison 
with the premium for 2019. 
As Ms D has said she was aware in March 2020 of the percentage increase, I dont think 
Homeserves standard letter has any bearing on her complaint. I dont accept her view that it 
shows that Homeserve often gets its dates mixed up.
I havent seen any documents showing when Ms D took out other cover for plumbing and 
drainage.
Homeserve has sent us some screenshots from which I can see that it does have a landline 
number for Ms D. It says it has no record of any call before July 2020. 
I consider that Ms D bears the burden of showing that she rang Homeserve to cancel the 
policy before it took the two instalments in March and June 2020. She hasnt said on what 
date she called.  And she hasnt provided any itemised telephone bill. 
So, whilst I dont doubt the sincerity of her recollection, I think Ms D has fallen short of 
showing that that she rang Homeserve to cancel the policy before it took the two instalments 
in March and June 2020.
Im satisfied that Homeserve made a refund of about £42.00 and that this was fair for the 
period after about 9 July 2020 for which Ms D had pre-paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Homeserve Membership Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman