DRN-3903997
The complaint
Mrs L says Lloyds Bank PLC has not helped her recover around £22,000 she paid to a 
rogue trader. 
What happened
Mrs L commissioned the build of an extension to her property. The work was sub-standard 
and unfinished. So she asked Lloyds to reimburse the payments she had made to the 
builder saying she had been the victim of a scam/fraud.
Lloyds said unfortunately it could not help Mrs L. The build did not meet its criteria for a 
scam claim as work had been carried out, albeit poorly. And the payments could not be 
refunded as fraudulent because Mrs L had made and authorised them. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ls complaint. She explained as Mrs L had paid by bank 
transfer there was no real protection for her from the bank. Had she used a credit or debit 
card Lloyds may have been able to raise a Section 75 claim or a chargeback claim to try to 
recover her money. But as she hadnt Lloyds had not made an error in saying it could not 
help.
Mrs L disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. She said she 
had been scammed by a rogue trader. She sent in copies of negative reviews that show this. 
In summary, she says the builder misrepresented his qualifications and insurances. 
Materials did not arrive as promised, items he asked for pre-payment for never turned up. 
The work that was completed was sub-standard and she is left, disabled, living in a 
hazardous property with a large cost to carry out remedial works.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mrs Ls complaint.
I can see this incident has been very distressing for Mrs L, but I can only consider if Lloyds 
did anything wrong, and not any of the other parties involved.
Lloyds and our investigator have explained that as Mrs L paid by bank transfer there is no 
bank protection available for her. This is correct. Credit and/or debit card payments offer the 
opportunity for bank to try to reclaim funds in certain circumstances, for example, cases of 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. But bank transfers, like cash, do not offer this same 
protection so I dont find Lloyds has failed to do anything it ought to have in order to help  
Mrs L.
I am not disputing that Mrs L has been the victim of substandard workmanship  I can see 
from the Site Inspection Report that there are many problems with the build  but that is a 
different issue and the bank cannot fairly be held liable for that. Mrs L would need to pursue 
her claim through the relevant construction industry bodies or as a civil matter in the courts  
Citizens Advice would be help to her identify the best next steps.
It follows I am not instructing Lloyds to take any further action. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman