DRN-3019469
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that V12 Retail Finance Limited declined her claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
 
What happened
Miss S purchased a sofa from a retailer and entered into a finance agreement with V12.
After as few weeks, Miss S noticed that one of the seats on the sofa had collapsed and 
stretched and the piping which shouldve been on the edge had slipped down.
Miss S reported the issue to the retailer, who arranged for an inspection of the sofa. The 
inspector concluded that the issue had been caused by a lack of dressing, and that there 
was nothing wrong with the quality of the sofa.
Miss S remained unhappy and raised a claim under section 75 with V12. V12 declined the 
claim. It said there was no evidence of a manufacturing fault with the sofa.
Miss S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that there had been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation by the retailer.
Miss S didnt agree. She said the sofa had been misrepresented to her because the care 
advice had changed following the inspection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Miss Ss complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation, and that V12s response to the claim under section 75 
wasnt fair or reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the 
point of supply. If this isnt the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred. 
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces the consumer to enter into 
the contract.
Ive looked at the available evidence, including the inspection report and the photos. I 
appreciate that Miss S feels that the look of the sofa has already been ruined. The inspection 
report says that the border of the seat is ruffled and baggy but says this is an issue caused 
by lack of dressing. The report doesnt say that the issue is irreversible.
In order to find that theres been a breach of contract, I would need to be satisfied that the 
sofa had a fault which made it of unsatisfactory quality. I havent seen any evidence in the 
inspection report or anywhere else to suggest that the sofa is faulty, so Im unable to say that 
there been a breach of contract.
Miss S has said that the sofa was misrepresented because the care advice changed 
following the inspection. Miss S hasnt said what care advice she was given at the point of 
supply. She makes the point that the care advice on the care guide only applies to 
detachable cushions, whereas the cushions on her sofa are fixed. Ive looked at the care 
advice and whilst it does make refence to detachable cushions, I think the advice of general 
application to all cushions.  Further, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the care 
advice is wrong, so Im unable to say that the care advice amounts to an untrue statement of 
fact (or a misrepresentation).
Miss S has said that the technician who inspected the sofa tried to repair it, and that 
because the same issue has returned, the repair wasnt successful. Ive thought about this, 
but I havent seen any evidence that there was a fault for the technician to repair, so I dont 
agree that a repair has been attempted here. The inspection report states that there isnt a 
fault and that the technician showed Miss S how to dress the cushions.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im unable to say that theres any evidence of a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation. So, I dont think V12 declined the section 75 claim unfairly 
or unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman