DRN-2347839
The complaint
Miss F complained because she is unhappy that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) 
Limited (Red Sands) declined her pet insurance claim. 
What happened
Miss F has a Prestige Lifetime policy with Red Sands which offers cover of up to a maximum 
of £6,000 per condition per policy year minus policy excess of £99. Miss Fs pet, S was 
treated for diabetes and was later referred to Queen Mother Hospital for Animals (QMH) on 
7 June 2018. He was diagnosed with Diabetic Ketoacidosis, Diabetes Mellitus, Hepatic 
Lipidosis and Heinz-body anaemia. Sadly, S had to be put to sleep on welfare grounds. 
Between 29 March 2018 and 19 June 2018, Red Sands received and settled claims for the 
treatment of Diabetes. On 21 June 2018, a claim of £6,387.49 was submitted for Diabetic 
Ketoacidosis. Red Sands reviewed the claim as a continuation of S ongoing claim for 
Diabetes. However, because it felt that the annual condition limit of £6,000 had been 
exceeded, it deducted £1,880.07 and only authorised a payment of £4,507.42. 
On 6 November 2018, the treating vet from QMH wrote to Red Sands to inform that he had 
spilt the conditions of Diabetic Ketoacidosis and Hepatic Lipidosis as he felt that they were 
not intrinsically linked. Red Sands reviewed the matter further and upon further advice from 
its consultant vet, maintained its stance to treat the two conditions under one policy limit and 
deducted the costs exceeding the policy condition limit of £6,000. However, it agreed to treat 
the Heinz-body anaemia as a separate condition and authorised the payment for this.
Miss F was unhappy with Red Sands decision not to cover the full claim. Shes unhappy 
with the way the claim was handled so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Miss Fs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. To 
summarise, he felt that Red Sands dealt with the claim fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
But firstly, I would like to offer my condolences to Miss F. Our pets are like family and it 
couldnt have been easy losing S.
Claim
Miss Fs Prestige life time policy has an annual condition limit of £6,000 minus policy excess 
which in this case is £99 .
The terms and conditions of Miss F policy states:
We will provide cover for all reasonable costs for treatment of your pet by a vet due to 
accident, illness or disease. Complementary Medicines and Behavioural problems. (Cover is 
provided up to the maximum limits as specified in your schedule subject to the policy excess 
and any applicable co-insurance payment).
The issue at hand is whether Red Sands dealt with the claim fairly in line with the policy 
terms by choosing to process the Diabetes and Hepatic Lipidosis under the same treatment. 
To do this, Ive reviewed the clinical records, report and comments from the treating vet and 
the report provided by Red Sands consultant vet.
In his letter to Red Sands dated 6 November 2018, the treating vet stated,
I have split hepatic lipidosis from the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis as these two are 
not intrinsically linked, and we do not always see them occurring together. Although as Im 
sure you are aware, diabetic mellitus is a risk factor for the development for hepatic 
lipidosis.
Ive then considered the report of Red Sands consultant vet below:
This appears likely to be secondary Hepatic Libidosis. Any cause of anorexia or sudden 
weight loss can trigger this, the vet practice is correct in saying its not a specific 
complication of Diabetes, but equally, it is unlikely to have happened without the diabetic 
complications seen here. Like Ketoacidosis, I think it is fair to treat this as a consequence 
and related to the diabetes claim. 
Although S had been losing weight, it looks fairly sustained in the record, primary Libidosis is 
triggered by acute, marked weight loss, like a sudden withdrawal of food (obese cat locked 
in a shed for example). Mostly, the anorexia and weight loss is triggered by an underlying 
illness, secondary Lipidosis, here due to diabetes. Peripheral fat sources are mobilised and 
oxidised in the liver, overwhelming the oxidative abilities of the liver and leading to 
triglyceride accumulation in the liver cells, impairing liver function and causing cholestasis, 
with further anorexia and nausea. In diabetic cats, this can profoundly affect the ability to get 
a cat eating and stable on insulin. There is no reason to believe Hepatic Lipidosis would 
have occurred here without a significant underlying disease like Diabetes and treating it as a 
complication under the same claim is fair.
Miss Fs policy term define a condition as any injury sustained during or resulting from a 
single accident or any manifestation of an illness having the same diagnostic classification or 
resulting from the same disease process regardless of the number of incidents or areas of 
your pets body affected.
Having reviewed the two expert opinions, my understanding is that whilst these two 
conditions may not be naturally linked, I think there is enough to infer that without the 
underlying diabetic condition, its unlikely that the secondary condition of hepatic lipidosis 
would have occurred. This is further confirmed by the statement from treating vet where he 
confirmed that diabetic mellitus is a risk factor for the development for hepatic lipidosis. 
I appreciate that Miss F felt that Red Sands shouldve requested more explanation from the 
treating vet on why he didnt feel the two conditions were related. However, I feel that there 
is enough information to conclude that there is a direct relationship between the two 
conditions in that the hepatic lipidosis was unlikely to have occurred without the underlying 
condition of diabetes. As such, Im satisfied that Red Sands fairly deducted the costs 
exceeding the policy limit of £6,000 in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.Service related issue
Ive considered Miss Fs comment about the treatment she received from a staff whom she 
felt was incredibly rude. Unfortunately, Red Sands has told us it no longer has the calls from 
2018 due to General Data Protection Regulations. However, I can see that Red Sands 
apologised for any offence that may have been caused in its email to you dated 8 July 2020. 
I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Red Sands has acted fairly, and I dont 
require it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman