DRN-3246566
The complaint
Mr M complains that Starling Bank Limited wont reimburse him the money he lost when he 
fell victim to an investment scam.
What happened
Mr M holds an account with Starling. In 2021, he explains he was recommended to visit a 
page on a social media platform for someone who claimed to be a professional trader. The 
supposed trader was posting success stories showing money he claimed to have made for 
other clients.
Mr M was able to verify that the platform the trader said he was using was a real company 
offering trading services. He says he also googled the name of the trader, who appeared to 
be a real person.
Already interested in trading, Mr M says he watched the page for a few weeks before 
deciding to go ahead. He says he decided to make an initial investment of £100, which he 
describes as a safe amount. 
He sent this payment from his Starling account by Faster Payments to an account in the 
name he believed to be that of the trader. The payee name he was asked to use suggests 
that the account was a personal account held with a UK bank.
Less than twenty-four hours later, he was told the investment had grown significantly. The 
trader told Mr M hed need to clear the trade by paying a percentage of the profits. The 
payment he needed to make was £250. Mr M did some checks and found that the platform 
did sometimes require the payments of fees, so he went ahead.
Mr M says that he was told the profits were continuing to grow, and so did the clearance fees 
he had to pay. This continued and he sent further payments over the next few days. In total, 
between 12 March and 16 March, he sent £2,220. This comprised 6 separate payments all 
going to the same bank account and all sent from Mr Ms Starling account.
He made a further payment of £408 on 20 March, and then two final payments on 26 and 
27 March for £2,218 and £2,745.63 respectively. At this point Mr M says he realised he was 
constantly paying in money and receiving nothing back. 
He contacted Starling to report this as a suspected scam. Starlings chat history appears to 
show the report first being made on 30 April  it does not show an earlier report about this 
specific scam incident. Mr M thinks he might have made this report at some point before 
30 April - but no longer has a record so cannot be certain when.
Starling was unable to recover any money from the receiving account. It considered his 
scam claim under the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM Code), which provides additional protection to scam victims against the impact of 
authorized push payment scams, and to which Starling is a signatory. Starling said it had 
met its obligations under the CRM Code. It said that Mr M hadnt taken sufficient steps to 
avoid falling victim to the scam and it didnt think it was liable to reimburse him under the 
CRM Code.
Mr M didnt accept this, and he referred his complaint to this service for an impartial review. 
He believed hed carried out extensive research before sending any payments. He thought 
Starling hadnt done enough to protect him and hadnt provided an appropriate scam 
warning.
Our investigator reviewed everything. But he thought Starling had treated Mr M fairly, and in 
line with the CRM Code. He said the investment returns Mr M had been clearly too good to 
be true. He didnt think Mr M had taken sufficient steps to verify who he was dealing with 
when he made the payments, so hadnt had a reasonable basis for believing the supposed 
investment scheme was legitimate.
Mr M didnt accept this. He pointed out that while Starling claimed to have met their 
standards for security, he hadnt been given a specific scam warning. While he accepted an 
element of responsibility for what had happened, he thought Starling might also be partly to 
blame. 
Because Mr M didnt accept our investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to 
reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Having done so, I have reached broadly the same conclusions as those of the investigator 
and for similar reasons. I realise this will be a disappointment for Mr M, so Id like to explain 
why.
Firstly, Im extremely sorry to hear about what happened. I can understand entirely why 
Mr M feels so strongly that his money should be returned to him, and why he doesnt accept 
that Starling isnt responsible to refund him here. He was tricked into sending money to 
someone who was pretending to be a trader, but instead took his money and gave nothing in 
return. Hes been left out of pocket by a significant sum as a result of this scam.
However, the main cause of Mr Ms loss was the scammer who deceived him.  It does not 
necessarily follow that Starling is responsible to reimburse him.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Starling should have reimbursed Mr M under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it 
ought to have done more to protect him from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. Both sides agree that Mr M was tricked into making these payments. He thought he was 
being helped to trade, by someone who claimed to be a trader on a real trading platform.
But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Mr M to receive a refund of the money under the 
CRM Code. The CRM Code requires a certain level of care to have been taken by Mr M too. 
The CRM Code 
Starling is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances 
and it is for Starling to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care 
under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to fully reimburse a customers loss if it can 
establish that - amongst other things - that customer made the payment(s) without having a 
reasonable basis for believing that:
- the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; 
- the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
- the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Having regard for the requirements of the CRM Code, Ive taken into account all of the 
circumstances of this case, which includes Mr Ms knowledge and wider circumstances as 
well as the complexity of the scam. I think the concerns Starling has raised about whether 
Mr M had a reasonable basis for belief about the points listed above are sufficient to support 
its position that he failed to meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code in making 
the payments he did. Ill explain why.
Mr M describes the steps he took before sending these payments. However, Im not satisfied 
these were sufficient to have given him a reasonable basis for believing the person he was 
transacting with was legitimate.  
Mr M believed the trader was investing in cryptocurrencies and stocks. He seen posts on the 
traders social media page which appeared to show the trader making significant profits for 
other people.
The trader told Mr M he was using a real trading platform, which Mr M was able to research. 
However, while I understand Mr Ms point that hed researched the trading platform and 
looked at how it worked, he was sending these payments to a personal bank account in the 
traders name - not one obviously connected to that trading platform. I cant agree that the 
legitimacy of the underlying trading platform necessarily meant the person claiming to use it 
was legitimate or not.
The first few payments Mr M made were for smaller sums. He describes the first payment as 
being a safe amount. As the sums gradually rose, Mr M was being told he was making even 
more significant sums. He says that his supposed profits had grown to £39,682 before he 
realised hed been scammed.
Mr M says he wasnt promised a set rate of return but that his profits were significant within 
the first day and appeared to be continually rising. Mr M can no longer access the details of 
what he was told by the supposed trader but recalls that the percentage clearance fee he 
was told to pay after the initial days profits was £250  suggesting the total profit must have 
been a higher sum. Even had the profit on day one been just £250, that would equate to a percentage return on 
investment of 250% in less than twenty-four hours. That would be an exceptionally high rate 
of return for any investment and I think this should have prompted Mr M to be sceptical. As 
the scam went on I dont consider that the steadily rising profits made it any more plausible  
rather to the contrary this made the traders supposed returns less plausible.
Its unclear how Mr M thought the trader was able to achieve these returns. He says he 
thought the returns seemed guaranteed based on the profits the trader posted on his social 
media page. From the outset, I find this level of profit was simply too good to be true  
particularly when it appeared to Mr M that the returns were guaranteed.
In saying that, Ive taken in account Mr Ms comments about the social media page having 
appeared legitimate, with followers and posts showing what looked like success stories. But 
given the nature of the platform used it wasnt really possible for Mr M to verify the truth of 
what he was seeing. As such I dont find it was reasonable to place such reliance on this as 
a means of judging the investment to be genuine, at least not in the face of the other 
concerning elements present.
In short, I dont think the steps he took gave him a reasonable basis for believing he was 
dealing with a legitimate trader, and so the exception to reimbursement under the CRM 
Code has been fairly applied by Starling.
That said, Ive also thought about whether Mr M might have met CRM Codes definition of a 
vulnerable customer at the time of the payments. If that were the case, then Starling would 
be required to reimburse Mr M regardless of the applicability of the CRM Codes exceptions. 
Mr M has explained that while in hindsight hes satisfied that he carried out the requisite due 
diligence at the time, he considers it possible he might have identified this as a scam sooner 
had he not been preoccupied with his university work at the time. He explains that he was 
under pressure with his university studies, and further, suffered from anxiety and depression. 
I understand his point about how that affected him.
Ive carefully considered everything hes said, and the impact hes described here. However, 
I find on balance that Mr M did not meet the CRM Codes definition of vulnerability. In 
summary, the CRM Code defines vulnerability as circumstances where the victim couldnt 
reasonably have been expected to protect themselves from the scam. 
Here, Mr M explains he did identify some concerning features and risks (the possibility that 
the trading platform itself might not be real, and the traders request for payments to clear 
the trade). He explains further that he took some steps to protect himself from those 
concerns. Given the evidence I cant fairly conclude he was not capable of protecting himself 
here. While I dont think the steps he took were sufficient for him to have had a reasonable 
basis for believing he was sending these payments to a legitimate trader, I find it more likely 
than not that Mr M was capable of taking further steps to protect himself at the time.
I want to emphasis though that this is not to diminish the circumstances he was in at the 
time, or the subsequent impact the scam has had on him. It is simply that I dont find the 
evidence would justify a finding that Mr M was unable to have taken further steps to protect 
himself here. I dont find Starlings assessment under the CRM Code was at fault here.
Should Starling have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Mr M? 
Amongst other factors, Ive also considered that the CRM Code says that where firms 
identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they should provide Effective Warnings to 
their customers. Starlings payment page did include a generic scam warning message which Mr M recalled asking whether he knew the person amongst other things. 
Mr M has argued that perhaps Starling should have given him a specific warning about the 
payment he was making and the risk he faced here.
There is no hard and fast rule about exactly when a bank should identify an APP scam risk 
under the CRM Code. But Ive considered whether the payments Mr M was making were so 
significantly unusual that Starling should have identified he might be at risk of an APP scam.
Having reviewed his transaction history for the period leading up to the scam, Im not 
persuaded that these payments would have stood out in that way  these were fairly 
unremarkable transactions for his account. Hed made other bank transfers previously, and 
his account balance fluctuated by similar amounts in normal usage. Similar looking 
payments appear to have been made to investment related payees and cryptocurrency 
platforms.
In all, I cant reasonably conclude that any of these payments should have stood out enough 
from Mr Ms typical transaction patterns for Starling to have been concerned that he might 
have been at risk of financial harm from fraud. It follows that I do not find it at fault here - 
neither do I find that it should have intervened in some other way than provision of a specific 
warning message.
Once it was made aware of the scam, the available evidence shows Starling acted quickly 
and appropriately to try to recover the funds Mr M had sent, but no funds remained to be 
recovered. Mr M says he may have reported the scam sooner than Starlings records show, 
but I have not seen any other evidence to support this being the case, and in any event it 
seems unlikely it would have made a material difference to the prospect of recovering any 
funds. Unfortunately, it is not unusual that scammers will quickly move funds on leaving 
nothing to be retrieved and the evidence supports that being the case here. 
Based on the evidence available to me I dont think there is anything further I could 
reasonably have expected from Starling in the attempts it made here to recover Mr Ms lost 
money.
Overall 
In saying this, I want to reiterate that I am extremely sorry to hear about what happened to 
Mr M, and I am sorry he has lost out. But I cant fairly hold Starling responsible for the 
actions of the scammer here. I can only look at its assessment of Mr Ms fraud claim under 
the CRM Code and any other obligations it had at the time. 
As Ive detailed above, Im satisfied Starling considered his claim appropriately under the 
CRM Code and isnt liable to refund him for any other reason.
Having carefully considered the available evidence, I cannot fairly and reasonably require 
Starling to reimburse Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint 
about Starling Bank Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman