DRN-3475382
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds trading at the time of sale as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester) mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr A bought a regular premium MPPI policy in May 1997 alongside a mortgage. The policy
covered Mr A against unemployment, accidents and sickness. Mr A and Lloyds have both 
said the policy was sold in a meeting. The mortgage ended in March 2003. 
Mr A says he was led to believe PPI was not a separate product from his mortgage. He
says he was mis-sold the MPPI policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. As Mr A doesnt agree with the investigators
opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold
Mr As complaint. I will explain why.
Mr A says he was led to believe PPI was not a separate product from his mortgage. I 
acknowledge what Mr A has said about this. I cant be sure exactly what was
discussed between Mr A and Lloyds when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that
the sale took place many years ago, and that detailed recollections of what happened
can fade over time.
Lloyds hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was sold. Thats
not surprising either given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other cases
Ive seen.
Without anything else to support what Mr A has told me and based on what I know of
sales conducted by Lloyds during that time, I cant safely conclude that Lloyds didnt
make him aware of the policy or that it was optional and that he chose to have it.
Moving on, Lloyds has said it recommended the MPPI to Mr A during the meeting
and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed that this
was the case. So, as it did recommend the policy to Mr A, it had to ensure during the
sale that the policy was suitable for Mr As needs.
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was
unsuitable for Mr A based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr A
says he didnt have any provisions at the time of sale mainly as he was self-employed (so 
wouldnt have been able to rely on company sick pay). The MPPI policy would have been a
would have covered his mortgage payments in a time of need. I think, on balance, Mr A had 
a need for this cover at the date of sale. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a 
significant or limiting term that would make the policy unsuitable for him either.
Lloyds has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy that
Mr A took out but even though it has provided information detailing how much it cost
it hasnt provided details on the benefit provided and I cannot be sure that the costs
were disclosed to Mr A in a clear and fair way at the time of sale either. That said,
even if they were disclosed clearly, I dont think Mr A would have done anything
different and decided against having the policy for the reasons that I have already
given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its
unlikely Mr A wouldve been affected by any of these.
In conclusion, although I know it will come as a disappointment, I do not uphold Mr As
complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman