DRN-4163936
The complaint
Mr B complains about how U K Insurance Limited trading as NIG (UKI) settled his claim on 
his landlords insurance policy.
Throughout this complaint Mr B has been represented by a third party. However for ease of 
reading Ive referred only to Mr B. All references include the actions of his representative. 
What happened
Mr B had landlords insurance with UKI for a number of properties he owns and rents out. In 
February 2021 he made a claim on the policy after one of his tenants moved out and left the 
property in a poor state. 
UKI sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. It accepted the claim but said it would only 
pay for some of the repairs as not all of the damage was caused maliciously and instead 
was due to neglect by the tenant and wear and tear. 
It also said that the sum insured (rebuild value of the property) on the policy wasnt sufficient. 
It said the property was underinsured by 15%, so the overall settlement would be reduced by 
this amount due to an average clause in the policy. 
It also initially said that as each individual bit of damage was a separate incident, an excess 
of £250 would apply to each one. 
It initially offered around £700 as a settlement but later increased this to £4846.13 after 
agreeing to include a replacement kitchen and only charging two excesses for external and 
internal damage, rather than for each item. 
However Mr B remained unhappy with this. He said that all the damage was caused 
maliciously so the whole claim should be covered. He made a complaint but UKI didnt 
uphold it, so he brought it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she thought UKIs 
decision that some of the damage was due to wear and tear was a fair one and therefore the 
settlement offered was reasonable. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs policy covers theft and malicious damage by tenants. The term malicious damage 
isnt defined in the policy, however this service generally considers it to be damage that is 
caused with malicious intent. 
Ive looked at the photos of the damage caused to Mr Bs property. And I agree there is 
some that appears to have been caused maliciously. This includes damage to some of the 
doors that look like theyve been punched. And the damage to the kitchen surface which 
looks to have been hacked off. As these items appear to have been damaged intentionally 
then I agree this would suggest malicious intent and therefore meet a reasonable definition 
of malicious damage. 
However there is some damage that doesnt appear to have been caused with malicious 
intent. This includes staining on the floor and carpet. This damage doesnt appear to be from 
a one off event but instead appears to have happened over time, due to a lack of care. 
UKI sent its loss adjuster to inspect the damage and based on their assessment and photos 
its agreed to cover some of the damage including the doors, window ledge, plaster on a 
bedroom wall and the kitchen. And based on the evidence I think this a fair assessment.
The damage to the plug sockets, floor and carpet and the damage in the bathroom dont 
appear to have been caused by force but instead have worn and become damaged over 
time. And as damage due to wear and tear isnt covered by the policy, I think UKI has acted 
fairly by not including these items in its settlement.
I note Mr B has said that all the damage was caused by one event, when the tenants 
partner attacked the property. Hes provided a police report that he says shows this. Ive 
looked at the report and I dont agree this is what it says. While it mentions domestic issues 
that have occurred in the household, it doesnt reference one event when all the damage 
was caused. It says that Mr B has said he thinks the damage was caused by the tenants 
partner and comments on the extent of the damage. So I dont agree this shows that all the 
damage was caused maliciously. 
Further, I wouldnt expect the police to comment on how the damage was caused, as this 
wasnt the purpose of their considerations. So I dont consider comments about the damage 
contained in the report persuasive when considering this complaint. 
So based on the evidence I think UKI has acted fairly and reasonably by concluding that 
some of the damage wasnt caused maliciously and therefore isnt covered under the policy.
Ive also considered UKIs decision to apply two excesses to the claim. The policy states as 
follows:
The Company shall not be liable for the first amount of each and every loss stated under the 
excesses set out in the Schedule or otherwise stated in this Policy.
As there is no evidence to suggest the damage is all linked to one event, then each 
individual event would be considered a separate loss with an excess applying to each. 
However I think UKI has taken a fair approach by applying only one excess to both the 
external and internal damage. So I wont ask it to do anything differently in regards to this. 
Underinsurance 
UKI has said that its further reduced the settlement as the property was underinsured. Its 
said the sum insured was 15% less than it should have been to reasonably reflect the value. 
As this formed part of the settlement, I have also considered whether this was fair. While I can see the policy contains an average clause that allows UKI to reduce the 
settlement proportionately, when considering underinsurance, this service would usually 
expect insurers to take regard of the relevant law. In this case thats the Insurance Act 2015. 
This is because we wouldnt expect a policy term to disadvantage a customer compared to 
the law. Insurers can opt to contract out of this law but have to meet a number of 
requirements (laid out in the act) in order to do this. 
Where there is underinsurance, the Insurance Act requires insurers to reduce the settlement 
proportionately based on the difference in premiums that were paid and what would have 
been paid if the property hadnt been underinsured. Ive asked UKI to provide details of the 
premium Mr B would have paid based on the reasonable estimate of the value. And I can 
see that he would have paid around 15% more. As UKI reduced the settlement by 15%, Im 
satisfied Mr B hasnt been disadvantaged by the fact it relied on the average clause rather 
than the relevant law. I therefore wont interfere in its decision to do so.
For these reasons, Im persuaded that UKI has acted fairly when settling Mr Bs claim and 
have offered a fair and reasonable settlement. I therefore wont ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman