DRN-3855878
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way Hoist Finance UK Limited dealt with his request to remove a 
default from his credit file. 
What happened
Mr L had a credit card with another business Ill call B. The credit card was closed and B 
recorded a default on Mr Ls credit file. The account was later sold to Hoist. 
At the end of 2021 Mr L spoke with B and it agreed to remove its default from his credit file. 
Mr Ls told us B advised it would contact Hoist and tell it to remove the default as well. 
Several months later, Mr L checked his credit file and found Hoist was still recording its 
default. Mr L went on to raise a complaint with Hoist and it sent him a final response. Hoist 
said it would refer Mr Ls concerns to B and closed his case. But Mr Ls explained B didnt 
follow up with him or issue a response to his complaint. Mr L has told us he chased both 
businesses but was unable to resolve the matter. 
Hoist says Bs first response to its enquiries was unclear as it didnt confirm whether the 
default it was reporting should be removed. B responded and confirmed the default date but 
didnt say Hoist should amend Mr Ls credit file. 
Hoist sent Mr L a final response that said it had referred his concerns to B. And B sent Mr L 
a final response sometime later advising it had failed to notify Hoist the default should be 
deleted. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ls complaint. They didnt ask Hoist to take 
further action as they felt it had dealt with Mr Ls complaint fairly. Mr L asked to appeal so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr L raised complaints with both Hoist and B about the default on his credit file. 
In this decision Im only looking at Hoists actions and whether it treated Mr L fairly.
When Hoist bought the account from B it took on responsibility to report the default. I 
wouldnt expect Hoist to amend a credit file to remove a default without a clear instruction 
from the original lender. 
Hoist has advised that it didnt receive a request to remove the default from Mr Ls credit file 
from B at the end of 2021. And the information Ive seen supports that the first time it 
became aware of the issue was when Mr L approached it some months later. Hoist has 
provided copies of the messages it sent B and I can see theyve already been set out by the 
investigator in their findings. Having read Hoists messages, Im satisfied they make a clear 
request for confirmation of whether the default should be removed from Mr Ls credit file. 
Bs responses confirmed information about the account but dont say the default should be 
removed. So whilst I understand why Mr L wanted Hoist to remove the defaults, Im satisfied 
it didnt receive a clear instruction from B to do so. Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but I havent 
seen anything that shows Hoist made a mistake after he contacted it about the default. Im 
pleased the issue was cleared up and can see Bs final response confirmed the default 
needed to be removed from Mr Ls credit file. 
I understand Hoist referred the matter to B when it responded to his complaint. But Im not 
persuaded that was an unreasonable step as, at that point, it hadnt received an instruction 
to remove the default which was the basis of Mr Ls complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but as Im satisfied Hoist dealt with his complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman