DRN-2393163
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs C complain that Charter Court Financial Services Limited (trading as Precise 
Mortgages) didnt tell them sooner that they were able to make overpayments to their 
bridging loan.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr T and Mrs C took out a 12-month bridging loan with Precise Mortgages 
to buy a new residential property. The debt was secured by way of charges over the new 
residential property and a buy-to-let property Mr T and Mrs C also owned. The exit strategy 
was the sale of Mr T and Mrs C existing residential property which was subject to a chain.
Mr T and Mrs C kept in touch with Precise to keep it updated on progress, but by 
November 2019 the sale still hadnt completed, and so other exit strategies were discussed. 
Following that Mr T and Mrs C repaid £68,000 (by way of three lump sum payments) and 
said theyd refinance a buy-to-let property to pay off another chunk of the bridging loan.
The bridging loan was fully repaid in December 2019.
Mr T and Mrs C complained to Precise that they should have been told sooner that they 
could make lump sum payments, as that would have saved them interest. Precise said the 
terms of the loan didnt allow lump sum payments, but it offered them as an exception as 
Mr T and Mrs Cs exit strategy was evolving. It said its call handlers should have explained 
that.
Our investigators said Precise did nothing wrong as capital reductions werent allowed, but it 
offered that as an exception to help Mr T and Mrs C. Mr T and Mrs C didnt agree and so the 
matters been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr T and Mrs C wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in 
the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point 
its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome. 
The simple fact here is that the contract Mr T and Mrs C entered into didnt allow for capital 
reductions within the term. This was clearly and unequivocally set out in the mortgage offer
You cannot make lump sum or regular overpayments on this mortgage. The fact Precise 
later allowed Mr T and Mrs C to do so doesnt alter that.
Mr T and Mrs C say if theyd been told sooner that lump sum reductions were allowed then 
they could have made some sooner, and therefore saved interest. But it wasnt allowed at 
all, let alone sooner. It was a concession Precise Mortgages offered to try to help Mr T and 
Mrs C as their bridging loan was nearing the end of its term and the original exit strategy still 
hadnt been achieved, and there was no guarantee it would be achieved in time. Precise 
Mortgages didnt have to offer the concession at all, so I cant fault it for not offering it 
sooner.
Precise Mortgages was trying to try to help Mr T and Mrs C. Instead it could simply have 
held them to the contract they entered into, and not allowed either the lump sum payments 
or the partial release of the security. 
I agree with Precise Mortgages that it would have been helpful if its call handlers explained 
all this to Mr T and Mrs C rather than leading them to believe overpayments were always an 
option, but not doing so didnt change things so no compensation is due for that mistake.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman