DRN-2730670
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that a computer error meant that the was unable to access funds in the
current account he held with Barclays Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr F submitted a cheque to his Barclays account. However, when he next came to use the
account, he discovered that the proceeds of the cheque hadnt cleared and so werent
available to him.
Mr F went into his local branch, where he learnt that a computer error had meant that the
cheque hadnt cleared. Mr F was concerned because the money was needed to make a
mortgage payment which was coming due in a few days. However, nobody at Barclays could
tell him when the money would clear, and they were unwilling to give him a temporary
overdraft to enable his mortgage to be paid.
Mr F wasnt happy with what had happened, so he made a complaint. And because Mr F
hadnt received any guarantees that the cheque would clear in time for him to make his
mortgage payment, he had to borrow money from a friend and was charged an interest rate
of 50% on this loan.
Shortly afterwards, the cheque did clear, but a further error meant that the cheque was
credited to Mr Fs account twice. This left Mr Fs account with a significant surplus. Mr F then
withdrew all the money in his account, including the surplus.
Barclays responded to Mr Fs complaint. They agreed that there had been a computer error
and that Mr F had been inconvenienced because of this. So, they upheld Mr Fs complaint
and made an offered of £175 compensation because of this. But Barclays confirmed that Mr
F wasnt entitled to the surplus money that had been paid into his account and which he had
withdrawn, and they asked Mr F to repay this. And when Mr F didnt make the repayment,
Barclays debited his account the surplus amount which took the account overdrawn. And Mr
Fs account accrued overdraft fees and charges because of this.
Mr F wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, especially as the incident with the cheque had
caused the person who had issued the cheque to no longer do business with him. So, he
referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. After a lengthy review they agreed that Mr
F should pay back the surplus money that he had withdrawn from his account, and so they
didnt feel that Barclays had acted unreasonably in making Mr Fs account overdrawn
because of this. But they felt that amount of compensation that Barclays had offered Mr F
didnt fairly reflect the worry that Mr F had experienced regarding the possibility that his
mortgage payment might not be made. So, they recommended that Barclays increase their
offer of compensation from £175 to £250.
Neither Mr F or Barclays thought that the view put forward by our investigator represented a
fair outcome to this complaint, and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 February 2021 as follows:
Barclays dont dispute that there was an error here which led to the proceeds of the 
cheque not being available to Mr F in the period approaching the time that his 
mortgage payment was due to be paid. And it is evident from the information I have 
available to me that Mr F spent considerable time in branch trying to resolve this 
matter when he first became aware that the money wasnt available to him.
Barclays have acknowledged the inconvenience that this matter caused Mr F in their
response to his complaint, in which they made an offer of compensation to Mr F of 
£175. I understand that Mr F doesnt feel that this offer of compensation goes far 
enough, especially considering the loan he had to take out from a friend who charged 
50% interest on the money borrowed, as well as the resulting loss of business from 
the person who gave the cheque to Mr F in the first place.
Its very difficult for me to consider awarding compensation when there isnt a 
material record of loss. And in this instance the nature of the loan that Mr F took 
means that it isnt possible for him to be able to provide a valid record that he was 
charged the amount of interest that he has said he was.
Similarly, its also very difficult to confirm that Mr F lost future business solely 
because the cheque in question didnt clear when it first should have done. 
Unfortunately, this means that Im unable to consider either the loan interest or the 
loss of future business as factors when assessing whether the level of compensation 
offered by Barclays is fair and reasonable here.
This means that Ive had to assess whether I feel that the £175 compensation offered 
by Barclays is appropriate when considered against the inconvenience that Mr F 
incurred in having to go into branch to try to resolve this matter, as well as the 
distress he may have suffered while waiting for the money to eventually clear.
Matters of compensation are always a subjective issue, and what one person 
considers reasonable may not be thought of in the same way by a different person. 
However, in this instance I do feel that the £175 offer made by Barclays is a fair one, 
and I note that it is commensurate with what this service would expect, given the 
circumstances here.
I understand that Mr F felt that because he wasnt given any guarantees that the 
money would clear into his account in time that he felt compelled to take a loan, as 
described previously, to cover his mortgage payment. But the money did clear in 
time, and while Mr F has expressed his concern that this service is assessing his 
complaint with the benefit of hindsight, given that Mr F was borrowing money from a 
friend, its difficult to consider that this loan wouldnt have been available to Mr F a 
few days later in the month, allowing Mr F the time to monitor whether the cheque 
would clear on time  as it ultimately did.
Finally, with regard the cheque being credited to Mr Fs account twice, resulting in a 
surplus which Mr F withdrew, I find that it is fair that Barclays should have asked Mr F to repay this money, and also to have debited his account the surplus amount when 
Mr F didnt take steps to return the money.
It follows then that my provisional decision will be that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or asking Barclays to take any further action at this time - beyond that to 
which they have already agreed. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr F 
was wanting, but I hope he can understand why, given everything that I have 
explained above, I feel that this is a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
In my provisional decision letter, I explained that my decision at this stage was provisional 
and that I was open to receiving any comments or any new information that either Mr F or 
Barclays might want to submit if they disagreed with my provisional decision, and I gave until 
28 March 2021 for all parties to do this. 
That date has now passed. Barclays responded to confirm that they accepted my provisional 
decision, while Mr F did not respond at all. It follows that I see no reason not to finalise my 
decision on the basis outlined in my provisional decision. And so, it will be my final decision 
that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman