The complaint
Mr D complains that the claim he made on his mobile phone insurance to Assurant General 
Insurance Limited (Assurant) was unfairly delayed and declined. He also complains that 
when he called Assurant on the 28 August to discuss his claim the call handler was rude to 
him.
What happened
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr D and Assurant, so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think its relevant to the issues. 
However, in summary it is this;
On the 23 July 2019 Mr D made a claim to Assurant following the theft of his mobile phone. 
Throughout August and September Assurant asked him to provide various pieces of 
information to support his claim such as proof of purchase, address and barring. And also 
screen shots showing whether the phone was still connected to Mr Ds i-cloud account. Mr D 
provided some information but not all of it.
Assurant had concerns about the claim especially as the documentation had not been fully 
supplied. The claim was closed on the 26 September because Mr D hadnt provided all the 
documentation Assurant were requesting. In their final response letter they said that if Mr D 
could provide a screen shot of the device linked to your account or evidence from Apple 
showing that it is not, then we can look to re-open and review your claim.
Mr D was unhappy with Assurants response and so the investigator looked into the 
complaint and upheld it, because she thought Mr D had proved his claim in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the policy, and that Assurant should not have declined it. She 
also thought that Mr D should provide proof of address and that Assurant should then 
reopen and assess his claim. For the trouble and upset caused to Mr D she thought 
Assurant should pay him £100 compensation.
As Assurant didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. Mr D 
also didnt agree believing that he should be given more compensation for the time, effort 
and trauma he had endured in bringing the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
In my provisional findings, I said: Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The role of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress 
where it is appropriate. I will consider whether Assurant acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr D. I aim to address all relevant points with a view to reaching a fair and 
reasonable decision based on the evidence before me. I take into account both sides views. 
DRN-1841483But, where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, then I have to come to a 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances of the 
case.
I've looked at the evidence supplied and considered the chronology of events. When Mr D 
first indicated his claim to Assurant they properly asked for further information. It then came 
to their notice that the phone had not been barred, which led to a reasonable request for 
further information and that such information was required on letter headed paper. Because 
Assurant are naturally concerned that all claims are genuine they called for yet further 
information regarding the linking of the phone to the i-cloud account. And when evidence 
was ultimately provided to show that Mr Ds i-cloud account had no devices linked to it, they 
raised the valid point that there also existed conflicting information that the phone was still 
active on a web service Find My iphone.
All of this I think left Assurant in the position of having concerns about the claim, and 
therefore asking for more information to satisfy themselves that it was genuine. That leads 
me to the terms and conditions of the policy. The policy does not provide for a specific list of 
documents or information that Mr D was required to provide Assurant  with in the event of a 
claim. What it did say was;
We will walk you through the simple claims process and tell you what information you 
will need to provide for us to assess your claim.
And also,
"It is important that when applying for insurance, or submitting a claim you or anyone 
acting on your behalf must take reasonable care to answer all questions honestly and 
to the best of your knowledge. Failure to do so may affect the validity of your policy or 
the fulfilment of your claim."
Considering that, it is clear to me that Assurant were entitled to ask for a reasonable level of 
detail and documentation from Mr D to support his claim. And, if such information were not 
forthcoming then the fulfilment of [his] claim might be affected. The issue therefore is 
whether Assurant were acting reasonably in requiring further information and documentation 
from Mr D. I think they were. Assurant have not declined his claim and so have not made 
any final determination on whether they accept the claim to be genuine or not. What they 
have done is ask for further information to enable them to satisfy themselves that it is a 
legitimate claim. That is fair and reasonable in my view.
And I don't think there was any delay in processing the claim because Assurant were entitled 
to seek further information as the picture changed, which it did. I've also considered the way 
in which the call handler dealt with Mr D on the telephone on the 28 August and although I 
can understand that Mr D perceived the call handler was rude, objectively the call was 
handled very professionally.
I issued my provisional decision on the 30 April 2020 asking Assurant and Mr D if they 
wished to submit any further evidence or comments, and if so to do so by the 13 May 2020. 
Neither have responded. 
So, I see no reason to depart from the findings Ive already reached in this case. Therefore, 
my decision remains the same. I can't say Assurant have acted unfairly or unreasonably and 
I'm not upholding this complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained and those in my provision findings, my final decision is that I 
do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman