DRN-3543608
The complaint
Mr J complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) failed to protect him from falling victim to an 
investment scam and refused to refund the money he lost.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I dont intend to repeat 
everything again here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving my reasons for 
my decision:
In May 2021, Mr J came across an investment opportunity through an individual he 
met on social media. Between 23 May and 7 June 2021, he authorised four 
payments totalling £7,000 to a cryptocurrency exchange, which Ill refer to as B, to 
buy cryptocurrency which was then sent on to a trading platform. Mr J also made a 
further payment through an account held with another bank. The following 
transactions were made to B using Mr Js Monzo debit card:
Date Amount Running total
23 May £200 £200
28 May £4,000 £4,200
3 June £1,000 £5,200
7 June £1,800 £7,000
Mr J eventually realised the trading platform was a scam and he reported the 
transactions to Monzo. At the time, he said that his phone had been hacked and 
someone else had accessed his account to authorise the payments. When Monzo 
declined the fraud claim on the basis that it was satisfied Mr J had authorised the 
transactions (it also closed his account), he admitted that he hadnt been honest and 
in fact had been scammed. 
Mr J complained to Monzo that it shouldnt have allowed him to make these 
payments as the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had imposed restrictions on B 
and it wasnt permitted to undertake any regulated activity in the UK. Mr J asked 
Monzo to refund the payments, re-open his account, and pay £500 compensation. 
Monzo stood by its decision but offered £25 compensation to acknowledge that it 
took longer than usual to respond to Mr Js complaint.
Our investigator concluded that Monzo didnt act unfairly in letting the payments go 
through  there were no warnings about the merchant at the time and the payments 
werent significantly unusual for Mr Js account. The investigator thought about 
recovery and concluded there were no chargeback rights. He also thought it wasnt 
unreasonable for Monzo to have closed Mr Js account as it reasonably had 
concerns following his initial version of events. And that the compensation offered 
was fair in the circumstances.
Mr J disagreed and asked for his complaint to be escalated to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr J has been the victim of a scam and the impact this has had on him. 
Id like to reassure him and Monzo that although Ive only set out the key points, I have read 
and considered whats been provided in its entirety. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. There 
is no dispute these payments were authorised. The starting position is that liability for 
an authorised payment rests with the payer even where they were duped into making 
that payment. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank 
has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is 
reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it 
might be liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result.
Monzo ought to have been: monitoring accounts to counter various risks; having 
systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other indicators that its customer 
was at risk of fraud; and, in some situations, making additional checks before 
processing payments or declining them altogether to protect its customer from 
possible financial harm from fraud. 
In Mr Js case, I dont think there was a reason for Monzo to have challenged any of 
the disputed payments. There wasnt, and to my knowledge still isnt, a duty on a 
payment service provider like Monzo to check the regulatory status of a merchant 
before executing an authorised payment instruction. That said, it isnt unreasonable 
to expect a payment service provider to pay attention to any warnings about the 
merchant from UK and overseas regulators. Its true that the FCA placed restrictions 
on the activities that B could carry out, these werent effective until after Mr Js 
payments. There were no regulator warnings about B at the time he authorised the 
payments. So, I wouldnt have expected them to have flagged on Monzos systems 
based on the merchant name alone. 
Looking at the operation of Mr Js account in the year leading up to the disputed 
payments, I dont consider the transactions were particularly unusual or suspicious 
such that they ought to have triggered Monzos fraud detection systems. Mr J 
regularly cleared the account balance after receiving credits into his account. The 
disputed payments were spaced out over several days and, apart from the £4,000-
payment, were similar in value to other payments on the account. A one-off larger-
value payment in and of itself isnt so unusual that I think Monzo ought to have 
flagged it for additional verification. A bank must balance the extent to which it 
intervenes in payments to try and prevent fraud, against the risk of unnecessarily 
inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions
Ive gone on to consider whether Monzo could have done more to try and recover 
Mr Js money via a chargeback claim after it became aware of the situation. But a 
chargeback in this instance would have most likely failed, given the transactions Mr J used his Monzo card for were to pay B (a legitimate company) for the purchase of 
cryptocurrency, which was duly received. The loss Mr J has complained about 
occurred when he paid the cryptocurrency to the fraudulent broker/trader. So, he 
could not claim that he did not receive the goods or services paid for from his Monzo 
account; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
Ive also considered the closure of Mr Js account, and I dont think Monzo has been 
unfair or unreasonable in its actions. The terms and conditions of the account allow 
for immediate closure in certain circumstances  and I can see that providing false 
information is one those. Based on Monzos findings that Mr J had authorised these 
transactions when he claimed that he hadnt and provided a backstory which wasnt 
true, Monzo was entitled to close his account without giving notice. I acknowledge 
that Mr Js other bank didnt close his account when it became aware of the true 
circumstances. But this doesnt mean that Monzos decision to exercise its rights was 
unreasonable or unfair. 
Monzos already apologised to Mr J for giving him the impression that it wasnt taking 
his complaint seriously and has also offered compensation. Our investigator made 
some observations regarding the content of Monzos final response letter which he 
thought was insensitive at times. Ive considered everything in the round, and Im 
satisfied Monzos offer of £25 is fair in the circumstances. So, I wont be making a 
further award. I understand Monzos requested account details from Mr J to pay the 
compensation. Its unclear if this has already happened but if not, Mr J can contact 
Monzo directly to provide the requested information as set out in its final response.
In summary, I know that Mr J will be disappointed with this outcome. Not least because the 
matter has been ongoing for some time. But for the reasons stated above, I dont consider it 
would be fair and reasonable to hold Monzo liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as Monzo Bank 
Ltd has already fairly resolved it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman