DRN-2491006
Complaint
Ms H has complained that Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) provided her with an unaffordable 
guarantor loan. She says that if Bamboo ought to have seen that she had a bad credit 
history and had been declined for credit elsewhere a number of times.
  
Background
Bamboo provided Ms H with a loan of £5,000.00 in July 2019. The loan was secured by way 
of a guarantee and indemnity agreement and was due to be repaid in 60 instalments of 
£197.09. The loan had interest of £6,825.37 and the total amount to be repaid was 
£11,825.37.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that Bamboo hadnt carried out 
proportionate checks before lending and that such checks would more likely than not have 
shown Bamboo Ms H wasnt able to sustainably repay the loan. Bamboo disagreed with our 
investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint.    
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Ms Hs complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Ms Hs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms H 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Ms H wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms H would 
be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
Bamboo provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Bamboo to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Ms Hs ability to make the repayments under 
this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Bamboo had to think about whether repaying 
the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Ms H. In practice 
this meant that Bamboo had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause 
Ms H undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Bamboo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms H. The existence 
of a guarantee and the potential for Bamboo to pursue the guarantor instead of Ms H, for the 
loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Bamboos checks reasonable and proportionate?
Bamboo says that Ms H completed an online income and expenditure assessment. It then 
ran a number of automatic checks against the details Ms H provided. These checks ensured 
Ms H met its initial lending criteria and included a credit check to ensure she wasnt 
insolvent.
Ms H told Bamboo that her monthly income was around £1,975.00  this was made up of 
£1,541.00 from earnings and £434.07 from benefits. Ms H was also recorded as having 
monthly expenditure of £926.16. This was made up of a £1 a month figure entered for rent, 
£448.12 in living expenses (based on Office of National Statistics (ONS)) data and £447.04 
for repayments on existing credit. Bamboo concluded that Ms H had over £1,107.84 in disposable income available each 
month (the numbers dont quite add up as Ms Hs calculated expenditure of £926.16 
subtracted from her income of £1,975.00 actually leaves £1,048.84) and would have in 
excess of £900 left over after her Bamboo loan repayments were taken into account. 
 
Ive thought about what Bamboo has said but I have significant concerns about the rigour it 
applied to its affordability assessment. To explain, the credit check Bamboo carried out 
showed that she had an unsatisfied default and had opened 3 new accounts in the previous 
6 months. The data also suggested that Ms H had made 5 further applications for credit in 
the 12 months preceding this loan. The credit check also showed missed payments on some 
accounts too. 
I have also concerns with Bamboos use of ONS data to calculate Ms Hs living expenses. 
Bamboo says the FCAs guidance in CONC 5.2A.19G permits the use of statistical data to 
estimate a prospective borrowers non-discretionary expenditure. I accept that this is the 
case but its also fair to say this provision also states that it is unfair to rely on such data 
where it is unlikely to be reasonably representative of the prospective borrowers situation. 
Bamboo used ONS data, which was based on the finances and expenditure of the average 
consumer, to estimate Ms Hs living expenses. But Ms Hs previous difficulties with credit 
and the multiple recent credit applications meant that Bamboo knew it was providing a loan 
to someone who fell outside this average portfolio. I didnt think that using ONS data  which 
was unlikely to reflect the existing commitments and expenditure of someone in Ms Hs 
circumstances was fair, reasonable and proportionate especially bearing in mind Bamboo 
took no steps to verify her income  Im not persuaded that credit reference data would have 
been able verify Ms Hs income  and theres no indication that this took account of the fact 
Ms H had two dependents.
 
Furthermore, Im also concerned how Bamboo seems to have accepted at face value Ms H 
had a monthly disposable income of £1,107.84 a month, yet needed to borrow £5,000.00 on 
these terms and also involve a guarantor. This is also in the context of Bamboo having 
refused Ms Hs initial application for a loan of £7,500.00 on the basis of it having concerns 
over her ability to afford £295.63 a month. 
I find it somewhat odd that proceeded with the loan for £5,000.00 on the basis Ms H had a 
monthly disposable income of £1,107.84 when it also thought that she might not be able to 
afford £295.63 a month. So Im satisfied that Bamboos checks threw up a number of 
questions which meant that it would have been reasonable and proportionate for it to have 
verified the income and expenditure Ms H provided. 
I want to confirm that Ive also seen what Bamboo has said about outcomes reached in other 
unrelated cases confirming that its checks were proportionate. But I dont think that it is 
appropriate for me to review the conclusions reached by investigators (whose opinions arent 
final and Im not bound by) on completely separate and unrelated cases. 
In any event, Bamboo was required to carry out a borrower focused check. And it is the 
particular circumstances of the borrower (e.g. their financial history, current situation and 
outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) together with the type, 
amount and cost of credit being provided thats the main driver in determining whether a 
check is proportionate. So its entirely possible that a proportionate check could look different 
depending on the individual circumstances of the prospective borrower.
Bearing all of this in mind, as Bamboo didnt take steps to verify Mrs Hs income and 
expenditure and instead chose to rely on an over optimistic (and somewhat unrealistic) calculation of her monthly disposable income, I dont think that its checks before providing  
Ms H with this loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Bamboo that Ms H would 
have been unable to sustainably repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Bamboo that Ms H wouldve been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan. 
Ms H has now provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she 
applied for this loan. I accept different checks might show different things. And just because 
something shows up in the information Ms H has provided, it doesnt mean it wouldve 
shown up in any checks Bamboo mightve carried out. But in the absence of anything else 
from Bamboo showing what this information would have shown, I think its perfectly fair, 
reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight on it as an indication of what Ms 
Hs financial circumstances were more likely than not to have been at the time.
As Ive already explained, Bamboo was required to establish whether Ms H could make her 
loan repayments without borrowing further  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments being 
affordable on this basis might be an indication it was fair and reasonable to lend. But it 
doesnt automatically follow this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow 
further in order to make their payments, it follows a lender should realise, or it ought fairly 
and reasonably to realise, that it shouldnt lend in circumstances where it is on notice the 
borrower is unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered the information Ms H has provided in light of this. The information 
Ive been provided with shows that Ms Hs income was substantially less than what shed 
declared to Bamboo. The information provided also shows that Ms H had a loan with another 
guarantor provider. So I have concerns about the viability of the guarantee. 
The information also shows Ms H was borrowing from a number of other unsustainable 
sources such as pawnbrokers and other high-cost lenders. Ive seen the argument that this 
loan allowed Ms H to settle the default on her credit card. But even if this might have been 
the case, its still abundantly clear to me that Ms H making the payments on this loan was 
always likely to result in her borrowing further. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have demonstrated that Ms H would not have been able to make the 
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering significant adverse 
consequences. And, in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks 
would more likely than not have alerted Bamboo to the fact that it shouldnt have provided 
this loan to Ms H. 
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms H in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude that Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms H in 
some other way.  
So I find that Bamboo didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms H in some other way.  
Did Ms H lose out as a result of Bamboo unfairly providing her with this loan?As Ms H has paid and is still being expected to pay interest and charges on a loan that she 
shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what 
Bamboo did wrong. 
So I think that Bamboo needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Bamboo needs to do to put things right
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Hs complaint for Bamboo to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £5,000.00 
originally lent. Bamboo should treat any payments made should the new starting 
balance be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to 
Ms H;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Ms H to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Ms Hs credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Id also remind Bamboo of its obligation to exercise forbearance if it intends to collect on an 
outstanding balance, should one remain after all adjustments have been made to the 
account, and its the case that Ms H is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Hs complaint. Bamboo Limited should put 
things right for Ms H in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman