DRN-4443865
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled a 
claim he made under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mr A was in a car accident in March 2023, and he made a claim to LV. Mr A explained to LV 
what happened - he was slowing down on the roundabout to allow another car to change 
lanes when the third party hit his vehicle. LV was also given the third-party drivers version 
which stated Mr A pulled onto the roundabout in front of him and it was Mr A who was at 
fault.
LV considered the damage caused to Mr As vehicle and Mr As own diagram both 
supported the third partys version of events. Therefore, it didnt consider the evidence 
available was sufficient to argue Mr A was established on the roundabout and hadnt failed 
to give way to vehicles already on the roundabout when he joined it. As a result, LV 
accepted liability for the third parties claim.
Mr A complained about this to LV - he felt LV was choosing to side with the third partys 
version of events. LV didnt uphold Mr As complaint, so he came to this service for an 
independent review.
The Investigator looked into matters and didnt uphold Mr As complaint. They explained LV 
was entitled to settle the claim as it saw fit, in accordance with the policy terms. And they 
hadnt seen any evidence to show the action taken by LV was unfair or unreasonable.
Mr A disagreed. He says the third partys version of events is a fabrication of lies and theres 
collusion. This matter has therefore been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
consider are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the 
submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, Im satisfied the Investigator reached a fair outcome here. So, I dont uphold 
Mr As complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Ive considered LVs standard policy terms and conditions which set out the agreement 
between the parties. And Im satisfied LV acted in line with them. I say this because the 
terms allow LV to conduct, defend and settle a claim as it sees fit. It therefore doesnt need 
Mr As approval of any decision to admit liability, settle a claim or make a payment to a third 
party. That might mean it makes a decision the policyholder disagrees with such as it may 
not try to recover its outlay or settle a claim from the third party or their insurer. But wed look 
at whether LV made a reasonable decision in doing this based on the evidence it had and 
the circumstances of the case.
LV explained it settled the third partys claim on Mr As policy based on the vehicles damage 
and what each party said, including the evidence from Mr A, as it found this was more likely 
to support the third partys version of events. It also has experience of how courts view such 
matters and the likelihood of success in pursuing a legal case. Whilst Mr A says the third 
party was to blame, without independent evidence of this, LV didnt consider it was a case it 
could win. 
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded LV was acting unfairly or unreasonably 
when it accepted liability in this claim.
Im aware Mr A has strong views about what happened in the accident, and I know he 
believes the third party to be totally at fault for it. But its not the role of this Service to decide 
who is responsible for an accident  decisions on this are best dealt with by a court of law. 
What Im deciding in this matter is whether LV has acted in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and dealt with the claim fairly and reasonably when deciding to settle 
the case as it has done here. And Im satisfied it has. So, I wont be asking LV to do anything 
further in relation to this matter.
I recognise Mr A will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve his dispute with LV  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman