DRN-2708072
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Soteria Insurance Limited (SIL) have declined her home insurance 
claim. She says her roof suffered storm damage which should be covered under the policy.
What happened
Mrs W had a home insurance policy underwritten by SIL. In February 2021 she made a 
claim for storm damage after rainwater came through the roof causing part of a bedroom 
ceiling to collapse. SIL appointed a loss adjuster (B) to validate the claim.
B inspected the roof (after a contractor had replaced three cracked tiles) and concluded that 
the old tiles (which had been kept for B to inspect) had weathered and cracked over a period 
of time rather than as the result of any recent storm event. They also said the water had 
been coming through to the ceiling gradually. SIL declined Mrs Ws claim.
Mrs W complained but SIL didnt change their decision. They said the weather conditions in 
her area on and around the relevant date didnt meet the policy definition of a storm. They 
also said the repairs required to her roof were caused by wear and tear  a gradual process 
not covered by the policy.
Terms and conditions
Mrs Ws policy covered loss or damage caused by storm or flood but excluded Loss or 
damage caused by wear and tear or anything that happens gradually. The policy included 
the following definition of the word storm:
Storm:
means a period of violent weather involving
(a) wind speeds with gusts of at least 55 miles per hour; or
(b) torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 15mm per hour; or
(c) snow to a depth of at least 30cm in 24 hours; or
(d) hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
Our investigators view
Our investigator looked at records of weather conditions in the area of Mrs Ws property for 
the relevant period. He didnt agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date of 
the reported damage. He also didnt think a storm had been the main cause of damage, as B 
had identified weathering on the roof tiles indicating wear and tear.
Mrs W didnt agree. She said the contractor whod repaired the roof had written storm 
damage on the invoice. She thought high winds might have lifted and cracked the tiles, 
allowing rainwater in, over the preceding months. She also said she didnt think her roof was 
old enough to have suffered wear and tear.
So, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although Im sorry to disappoint Mrs W, I dont uphold her complaint. My 
reasons are broadly the same as the investigators.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
So, Ive considered whether storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened. Having considered weather reports from January 2021 to the date of 
the claim I agree with the investigator that what wed normally consider to be storm 
conditions didnt occur during this time.
The peak wind gust recorded at a weather station four miles from Mrs Ws property and the 
maximum hourly rainfall recorded at a weather station 13 miles from Mrs Ws property didnt 
meet the speed or volume wed usually think amount to a storm. There was also no 
significant snow or hail in the area.
A named storm, Christoph, did bring some very wet weather to parts of the UK from 18 to 20 
January 2021. This caused some travel disruption in the local area of Mrs Ws property with 
surface water on the roads. But the maximum total rainfall observed during any one hour 
over those days didnt meet the storm definition.
As there wasnt weather which met the policy definition of a storm at the relevant time, I cant 
say that a storm caused the damage Mrs W is claiming for. Its not unfair for SIL to decline a 
claim under the storm peril if there is no evidence of a one-off event of storm.
Its also worth noting that, even if there had been weather amounting to a storm in the run up 
to the date of the claim, Id have to consider what caused the damage to the roof (and, in 
turn, the bedroom ceiling).
SILs expert, B, said the damage was caused by wear and tear, not a storm. B found that the 
edges of the cracks in the roof tiles had weathered, suggesting the cracks had been 
developing for a while.
Ive also noted that Storm Christoph was primarily named for the potential impacts from the 
heavy rainfall and flooding. Although it did bring some strong winds, the winds in Mrs Ws 
area werent of the strength that would usually be associated with lifting and cracking roof 
tiles. So, on balance, I think its more likely than not heavy rain brought to light an existing 
problem with deteriorating tiles. But thats not the same as saying that a storm event caused 
the cracks and water ingress.
Mrs W says that the invoice she had from the roof contractor which describes the need for 
repairs as storm damage should be given more weight. But I dont think the wording used 
on the invoice is evidence that there was a storm event or that the main cause of the 
damage was a storm. The contractors role was to repair the roof to prevent further water ingress, not to assess how the tiles had become cracked or for how long theyd been like 
that. I dont think what he wrote on the invoice undermines the reasoned opinion of SILs 
expert. Im also not persuaded by Mrs Ws point about the age of her roof. The roof is more 
than 30 years old and thats time for gradual deterioration to have occurred.
Overall, I find theres no evidence that storm conditions were present at the relevant time, 
and also no evidence to rebut Bs conclusion that the repairs to Mrs Ws roof are primarily 
required due to the gradual deterioration of the tiles. It follows that I dont think SIL have 
unfairly declined Mrs Ws claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman