DRN-4389139
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with how American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) handled a 
claim he made to it.
What happened
The background facts of this complaint are well known to the parties  I will only summarise 
these and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
Mr N purchased a hair treatment using his AESEL credit card. He is unhappy with it and 
says he did not get the results he was expecting and wants a refund.
Mr N made a claim to AESEL and it considered matters in respect of Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) and declined the claim. Mr N then complained to it 
about the outcome of his claim.
Mr N brought his complaint about the outcome of the claim to this service. Our investigator 
did not uphold the complaint.
Mr N disagrees. In summary he says:
He paid for something he did not receive.
He has submitted a report by a qualified dermatologist which should be sufficient to 
show he didnt get results.
The matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the evidence submitted by the parties but not commented on it all  only 
those things I consider to be particularly relevant. This isnt intended as a discourtesy but 
reflects the informal nature of our service in resolving disputes.
I am sorry to hear about Mr Ns dissatisfaction with the treatment he purchased. However, it 
is important to keep in mind that AESEL is not the supplier of treatments here. When 
deciding if it has acted fairly I am only looking at its role as a provider of financial services. In 
doing so I consider how it might have been able to help Mr N get his money back. Section 75 
is particularly relevant here so I have focused on this.
Section 75
Section 75 in certain circumstances allows Mr N to have a like claim against AESEL for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by a supplier of goods and services paid for using 
his credit card.
Section 75 has technical criteria that needs to be satisfied in order for there to be a valid 
claim in respect of the actions of a particular supplier. For example, relating to who was 
involved in the agreement, how it was paid for and what the goods or services cost. In this 
case we have quite limited information about the nature of the contract agreed with the 
supplier (which I will discuss later on). However, based on what I do have I am broadly 
satisfied the criteria is met for Mr N to have a valid claim against AESEL for a possible 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in respect of the treatment he 
purchased.
In order to determine if there has been a breach of contract by the supplier I have 
considered any specific terms and conditions of the service Mr N bought along with any 
terms implied by consumer law.
In this case I consider the Consumer Rights Act 2015 is particularly relevant as it implies 
terms into consumer contracts in respect of goods and services as follows:
 that services will be performed with reasonable care and skill 
It is important to note here that Mr N purchased what is a complex medical service and 
something which I do not have expertise in. It is something which involves possible 
complications and side effects involving the human body.  It is commonly known that there 
are many variables with a medical treatment  and unlike some other services there is often 
a reasonable expectation that things may not always turn out as planned (and relevant 
consents and disclaimers agreed). So judging whether the supplier has acted without 
reasonable care and skill or breached the contract in some other way (even if discussions 
took place about a desired course of action at the outset) is not straightforward. This 
challenge would have been similar to that facing AESEL when deciding the claim. 
It is particularly challenging here with a lack of paperwork to show what was explicitly agreed 
between the parties (along with any conditions on this). This service (unlike a court) is not 
able to compel witnesses for cross examination either  which makes getting to the bottom 
of things much more difficult. So in considering AESELs response to the claim I have 
factored this in.
I note that Mr N provided a summary to AESEL about his dispute with the supplier  that he 
paid in good faith for hair removal treatment (to deal with sweating) and that he was told by 
the supplier that it had very good results based on a number of treatment cycles. Mr N 
explained to the supplier that he wasnt getting results even after a number of cycles and 
that he ended up with itchiness and a negative impact on his sleep. He also referred to his 
dermatologist whom he said he contacted about the issue to seek an opinion on the 
treatment.
Overall I dont see persuasive evidence reasonably available to AESEL at the time to show 
an express term of the contract has been breached (or a misrepresentation has taken place 
in respect of what Mr N would receive as part of the treatment). In making this finding I also 
note here that the correspondence from the supplier to Mr N denies a contractual provision 
has been broken and insists that Mr N got what was agreed.
In considering whether there was persuasive evidence that the procedure was not carried 
out with reasonable care and skill I note that the supplier in its back and forth 
correspondence to Mr N insists the treatment was carried out according to relevant 
guidelines and that Mr N did not previously mention (nor did he evidence) the side effects he 
is claiming now. It strongly refutes Mr Ns claim for a refund. It has also mentioned that the 
treatment was showing results but Mr N stopped coming regularly and did not complete the recommended course of treatment.
It is important to note that even if I accepted that AESEL should have concluded Mr N had 
received poor results from the treatment (and currently that isnt clear from the evidence) this 
in itself this will not necessarily demonstrate a lack of care and skill - which is focused on 
the manner in which the service was performed.
I note Mr N has produced a medical report to support his case it looks like AESEL might not 
have been sent this when considering the claim. However, even if it had been I am not sure 
it changes things in any event. The report is not independently appointed, is somewhat 
general and does not go into detail about the expected standards in that particular industry 
and whether the supplier fell below these. It is also difficult to rely on here considering the 
wider allegations by the supplier that Mr N didnt complain of side effects during the 
treatment and didnt participate in the plan as required.
In summary, while there are clearly two sides in disagreement here (Mr N and the supplier) I 
think there isnt sufficiently clear evidence of a breach of contract or misrepresentation to 
have expected AESEL to have upheld the Section 75 claim. As I have indicated, the subject 
matter is a complex medical treatment, and there is a lack of information about what was 
agreed and provided by the supplier, conflicting allegations between the parties, along with 
limited expert information. And all this makes things more challenging here. 
For completeness I have considered chargeback, which it appears AESEL discontinued due 
to lack of evidence. The chargeback scheme is dependent on the particular rules of the card 
scheme and isnt guaranteed to succeed. For similar reasons to those I have identified 
above regarding the lack of paperwork, conflicting accounts of the parties and complex 
nature of the dispute it is also difficult for me to fairly say that AESEL should have pursued a 
chargeback further, and that it would have likely succeeded in any event.
Once again I am sorry to hear about Mr Ns disappointment with the treatment  but I dont 
think AESEL acted unfairly in turning the claim down here. It is also worth underlining that 
this service (unlike a court) is limited in its ability to compel and cross examine witnesses, 
furthermore I am not able to make awards for loss of amenity in any event (which relates to 
compensation for what Mr N has said about the ongoing side effects he has). With this in 
mind it might be that Mr N is able to consider alternative ways to pursue his claim against the 
supplier, such as court. If so he should consider seeking independent legal advice on this.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman