DRN-2844936
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that his claim on his contents insurance policy hasnt been covered by 
Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz). 
What happened
Mr S made a claim on his contents insurance when he accidentally damaged his vinyl 
flooring. 
Allianz declined the claim. As Mr Ss flooring was stuck to the ground they considered it to 
be a permanent fixture of the property and therefore part of the building. So Allianz said they 
couldnt cover it under his contents policy.
Mr S complained to Allianz that his flooring was only partially stuck down. So he said he 
could remove it if he moved home. But they didnt uphold his complaint. They said that the 
vinyl flooring couldnt be considered as contents because it was glued down, even if only in 
part. They said that Mr S would be unlikely to be able to lift it without damaging the vinyl 
itself or the laminate it was stuck to.
Unhappy, Mr S brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into everything and came to the opinion that Allianz hadnt acted 
unfairly in declining the claim. 
Mr S disagreed. So his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss policy covers him for his contents. The policy document defines these as: 
Household goods and personal property, personal money and valuables.
The policy document goes on to state:
Contents does not include:
-Permanent fixtures and fittings...
So the policy covers what Id expect it to cover. Contents policies usually cover everything 
you can take with you if you moved home.
As Mr Ss vinyl flooring was partially stuck to the ground, it suggests it was meant to be a 
permanent fitting, rather than something that could easily be taken away if Mr S moved 
home. 
I also note that the invoice for the replacement flooring Mr S ordered shows that it was to be 
fully stuck down. So there would be no potential to remove the replacement if he moved 
home. The invoice also mentions the disposal of a full stuck floor. 
Because of this, Im satisfied Allianz have declined the claim in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. 
I know this will be disappointing to Mr S, but Im not persuaded that Allianz have done 
anything wrong. So Im not going to ask them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman