DRN-2789831
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that their second charge loan with Mars Capital Finance Limited was 
mis-sold. They say they were given no advice and no affordability checks were carried out. 
They say theyve suffered distress and their health has suffered as a result. Mr H has dealt 
with the complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a second charge loan with a different lender. They say this was in 
about 2012. The original lenders loan portfolio was sold some years ago. Mars Capital 
acquired Mr and Mrs Hs loan in mid-2019.
Mr and Mrs Hs loan is in arrears and theyre struggling financially. Mr H says Mars Capital 
disregarded the fact he told it the loan had been mis-sold and feel it doesnt care. 
Our investigator said Mars Capital wasnt responsible for the sale of the loan, or the actions 
of the original lender. Its only responsible for what happened with Mr and Mrs Hs loan from 
when it acquired it.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. Mr H said no-one was taking responsibility for the mis-sale of the 
loan. He said theyd asked for help from Mars Capital, such as freezing interest, but it 
declined. He says they now owe more than they borrowed. Mr H says Mars Capital wont 
accept payments less than the contractual monthly payment and its threatened to take 
possession action. He asked if he could raise a complaint about how Mars Capital is 
managing their account now.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mars Capital says its only responsible for Mr and Mrs Hs loan from when it acquired it. It 
provided evidence of the terms on which the loan (and others in the portfolio) was acquired 
by another lender in late 2018. Mars Capital acquired the portfolio from that lender in mid-
2019. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably find that Mars Capital is 
responsible for the sale of the loan in 2012.
Mr and Mrs Hs loan is part of a portfolio that has been sold or transferred at least twice. 
Mr H says no-one is taking responsibility for the sale of the loan. While I can understand his 
frustration, I cant, in the circumstances, reasonably find that Mars Capital is responsible for 
the sale of the loan. 
The original lender was part of a group. Its not clear from the information available to me 
which company within the group was the original lender to Mr and Mrs H. However, several 
companies within this group have been dissolved and/or entered insolvent liquidation some 
time ago. I understand Mr and Mrs H have raised the matter with the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme.
Mr H says Mars Capital was unfair to disregard the fact that they told it the loan was mis-sold 
when dealing with them. Mr H has explained their situation, and Im sorry for the difficult 
circumstances they are dealing with. I dont think though I can reasonably require Mars 
Capital to deal with Mr and Mrs Hs loan on the basis it was mis-sold.
However, Mars Capital is responsible for how it managed the account since it acquired it. It 
must treat Mr and Mrs H fairly and take their current circumstances into account. Mr and 
Mrs H have raised a new complaint about this and so I wont look into this here. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman