DRN-2714311
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy with how National House-Building Council (NHBC) has handled her claim 
under the buildmark policy. 
What happened
Before summarising whats happened, I need to clarify this complaint is about how NHBC 
handled Miss Ls claims from 1 August 2020 to 20 December 2020. 
Another ombudsman issued a final decision about NHBCs handling of claim 18/17816 for 
the period 15 February 2019 to 31 July 2020.  I cant, nor do I need to, comment on the 
ombudsmans findings. But where necessary - to understand the timeline of events - I have 
referred to what the ombudsman decided.
Miss L bought a new property in December 2015 for which she has a NHBC buildmark 
policy. In January 2016, Miss L reported issues with the property to the builder. But she 
remained unhappy, and in March 2018 told NHBC about the outstanding issues.
NHBC carried out investigations and completed repairs in respect of the issues it deemed 
fell within section 2 of the policy.  Miss L remained unhappy with how things had been 
handled and complained to NHBC. NHBC provided multiple final responses from July 2018 
to December 2020. 
Miss L subsequently complained to this service. The ombudsman explained she could only 
consider aspects of Miss Ls claim which fell within our jurisdiction  and she decided these 
were:
1. roof leak  damp coming through walls to bedroom and flooring  uneven in both 
bedrooms (18/17816)
In respect of the damp, the ombudsman was satisfied NHBC had largely handled Miss Ls 
claim as shed expect it to. Where there had been delays, she considered NHBCs 
compensation fairly reflected the inconvenience Miss L had experienced. And the 
ombudsman was satisfied NHBCs further investigations into the flooring was a reasonable 
course of action. These two issues continue to be of concern for Miss L. 
In addition to claim 18/17816, Miss L complained to NHBC about the:
1. heating system not performing and roof leak near extractor (19/36332). 
2. damp ingress to front bedroom and external wall is excessively wet (19/37903)
3. external guttering at front house (20/51611)
4. cash settlement 
a. it doesnt include compensation for the time, discomfort and ill health shes 
experienced.
b. no mention of temporary accommodation is included in the cash settlement.
c. reservations about sufficiency of proposed works and cost.
NHBC considered Miss Ls concerns and in November 2020 made a cash settlement offer, 
which it said covered the:
Guttering and downpipe to front of property (ex-gratia)
Missing flashings to the rear of property
Right sizing of the guttering to the rear of property
Flashings to either side of the balcony
Replacement glazed panel to the balcony
Floors in both bedrooms
Rectification of cold bridge in rear bedroom
Decoration of kitchen ceiling
Professional fees - to plan an oversee the works. 
Miss L remained unhappy and so brought a complaint to this service. 
Claim 18/17816
Our investigator said she was satisfied NHBCs cash settlement sufficiently covered the 
outstanding works required to remedy the damage.
 
Claim 19/36332
With regards to the heating system not performing, NHBC had previously said its ability to 
investigate the issue had been prejudiced because the system had been repaired by a third 
party. The item was considered under NHBCs resolution service and was based on Miss L 
reporting issues with the heating system showing error messages. The investigator said she 
hadnt seen evidence to show Miss L reported issues with the temperature in the house.
During further investigations in 2020, NHBC found an issue with the Mechanical Ventilation 
Heat Recovery (MVHR). This malfunctioning caused condensation to collect in and on the 
ductwork and to drip on to the kitchen ceiling below, causing staining. NHBC disagreed that 
lack of insulation contributed to the problem and said it wouldnt be carrying out installing this 
under section 2 or 3 of the policy.  It did however, include in its cash settlement an amount to 
make good the kitchen ceiling  which the investigator considered to be fair. 
Investigations also revealed a cold bridge in the rear bedroom - which could be corrected by 
adding more insulation. NHBC accepted this as a valid claim under section 2 of the policy 
and included this in its cash settlement. The investigator was satisfied NHBC had acted fairly 
by offering to cover the cost of installing insulation, and that the works to rectify the cold 
bridge were reasonable. 
Overall however, the investigator said she hadnt seen thered been a breach of a NHBC 
technical requirement with the heating system (MVHR unit). In any event, as it was 
considered under the resolution service part of the policy in 2019, it wasnt within our 
jurisdiction and so couldnt be commented on. 
With regards to the roof leak near extractor element  NHBC said extensive investigations 
didnt reveal damp or ongoing water ingress. But it accepted the repair to the stained area was poor, and so in order to comply with the technical requirement further works to sand and 
repaint the area using a stain block was needed. The investigator was satisfied there hadnt 
been further water ingress and so considered NHBCs remedial works to be reasonable.  
Claim 19/37903
NHBC has included an ex gratia payment for the guttering and downpipe at the front of Miss 
Ls property. It says this is despite it not being liable for the repair under the policy. The 
investigator said claim 19/37903 doesnt fall within this services jurisdiction because it was 
investigated under NHBCs resolution service and no technical failings were identified. 
Claim 20/51611
NHBC said the lack of guttering to the front of Miss Ls property isnt a failing of a technical 
requirement  it said above ground drainage isnt a part of the home covered by section 3 
of the policy, and so its unable to consider the claim. However, its contractor said it would be 
beneficial for the property to have the guttering sorted, and so NHBC has included an ex-
gratia payment in its cash settlement for this.
The investigator said she hadnt seen evidence to show internal water ingress was a result 
of the guttering, and as NHBC had included the guttering in the cash settlement, she was 
satisfied it had done enough.
Cash settlement
The investigator hadnt seen evidence to suggest the cash settlement wouldnt allow the 
works to be completed. She acknowledged that NHBC had included an amount to enable 
Miss L to employ a professional to have the works designed and overseen  something it 
isnt required to do under the policy. And she was satisfied NHBC had progressed the claim 
proactively from August to December 2020. And so, she didnt ask it to do anything else.
Miss L remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. Both parties have 
provided a lot of information in relation to this complaint. I want to reassure them Ive looked 
at everything theyve submitted; however, Ill only comment on those things I consider 
central to the outcome Ive reached
Section 2 of the buildmark warranty protects an owner if the builder becomes insolvent or 
fails to meet its obligations during the first two years after completion. But we can only look 
at complaints which fall within this period if the following has happened: a resolution report 
has been completed; the report directed the builder to do something by a deadline; the 
builder has failed to complete the works by the deadline or is insolvent.
Section 3 of the policy provides cover against damage caused by defects in specified parts 
of the property during the three to ten-year period after purchasing the property.
Under the policy, damage is defined as physical damage, and defect as being where 
damage occurred because the builder failed to build [certain parts of] your home to comply 
with NHBC requirements. Under the policy, damage is defined as physical damage, and defect as being where 
damage occurred because the builder failed to build [certain parts of] your home to comply 
with NHBC requirements. 
To determine whether there is a defect I need to consider whether a technical requirement 
exists. If a requirement exists, Ill then need to consider whether it has been breached. Here, 
the relevant technical requirements are those which were mandatory and in force at the time 
the property was built. 
But not all aspects of Miss Ls claims issue are within our jurisdiction - where they arent, Ive 
explained why.
Claim 18/17816  roof, balcony and flooring
NHBC has accepted the missing flashings and undersized guttering to the rear of the 
property, along with the uneven bedroom flooring is a breach of its technical requirements. 
As these issues were reported to the builder in the two years after completion, NHBC has 
accepted this as a valid claim under section 2. The repair costs have been accounted for in 
the cash settlement. So, I dont need to comment any further on this
With regards to the second-floor balcony, NHBC has said it has undergone works to prevent 
water ingress to Miss Ls property, and its satisfied these were done to an acceptable 
standard. The replacement glass panel was an outstanding issue, but I can see an amount 
for this has been included in NHBCs cash settlement, so Im satisfied a solution has been 
provided. 
In October 2020, Miss L made a claim for storm damage after a stain appeared on her 
bedroom ceiling. Ive looked at the insurers report and note the damage wasnt as a result of 
a storm. Tests showed the area to be dry and the surveyor said there wasnt a visible stain.  
Ive not seen evidence to show there had been further water ingress during the period this 
complaint is considering.  And so, Im satisfied NHBCs cash settlement is a fair reflection of 
the scope of works required to remedy items listed in this claim. 
Claim 19/36332 
heating system not performing (item 1) 
NHBC issued an updated resolution report on 2 December 2020. In it, NHBC explained that 
following BSRIA (Building Services Research and Information Association):
the heating system was found to be sized correctly for the conditions, and the 
underfloor heating system was operating correctly with no leaks or dead legs found in 
the system.
Testing indicates that the heating system is sized correctly in this property for the 
conditions and the heating demand at the time, therefore the item complies with our 
technical requirements.
NHBC said no further action was required in respect of the heating. As such, I dont have 
authority to investigate this further because the report didnt direct the builder to do 
something (which is one of the criteria that must be met before we can look into things).
roof leak near extractor (item 2)In December 2019, NHBC issued an updated resolution report regarding item 2. The report 
said the tested areas were found to be dry and that there wasnt evidence of recent water 
ingress. 
But it did say the repair paint work to the previously stained area was poor and didnt comply 
with NHBCs technical requirements. So, it directed the builder to carry out works to ensure it 
was compliant  and it gave a deadline of 31 January 2020 for this to be done. 
 
Its not clear if the repair was completed by the deadline. Given that making good the ceiling 
has been included in the cash settlement, I think its unlikely. I havent been persuaded that 
there was a water ingress in the period this complaint is considering, and so Im satisfied 
NHBCs means of putting right the paint work  by accounting for it in the cash settlement  
is reasonable. 
Claim 19/37903  damp in front bedroom and wet external wall
These concerns were considered as part of NHBCs resolution service. Because these were 
found to comply with NHBCs technical requirements and no further action was required, 
NHBC said it wouldnt be taking the claim further. It also means Im unable to comment on it.  
I note however, NHBC has made a ex gratia contribution to rectify the guttering in respect of 
this.
Claim 20/51611  external guttering at front house
NHBC considered this claim item under section 3 but declined it on the basis it wasnt in 
breach of a technical requirement. So, I need to consider whether NHBCs decision is fair. 
The important issues are: 
1. Was there physical damage? And 
2. Was it caused by a defect in a specified part of the property?
Both parties agree the guttering at the front had become disconnected. So, Im satisfied 
there was physical damage. But NHBC said there isnt a technical requirement in respect of 
drainage above ground level. Ive looked at the technical standards and agree this isnt 
covered, so Im satisfied NHBC has acted fairly by declining this aspect of the claim. 
However, I note NHBC has included an amount for this in the cash settlement as a gesture 
of goodwill to enable Miss L to have it repaired  which Im satisfied provides a fair resolution 
to the problem. 
Cash settlement
Miss L has concerns about whether the cash settlement is enough to allow the necessary 
works to be completed. First, its worth setting out what the policy says: 
If the builder does not fulfil their responsibilities under the builder warranty, we will 
do so on their behalf or alternatively if we choose to, we will pay you what it would 
cost us to have the work done. So, NHBC choosing to settle the claim by way of a 
cash settlement is something it is entitled to do under the policy.
NHBC has explained that an allowance for temporary accommodation hasnt been included 
in the cash settlement because it doesnt agree Miss L needs to vacate her home for the 
repairs to be completed. While there will be some disruption, Im satisfied the works do not 
affect the functioning of the kitchen or bathroom and so the property is habitable. And so, I think NHBC has acted reasonably by omitting temporary accommodation costs from the 
settlement figure. 
Having looked at how NHBC has handled Miss Ls claims during this period, I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that it caused avoidable distress. I sympathise with Miss L that this 
situation has caused her great strain, but I cant attribute it to NHBC having done something 
wrong. 
The difficulties Miss L has experienced with her new home ultimately stem from the original 
builder. So, it wouldnt be fair of me to ask NHBC to pay compensation for failings its not 
responsible for. What I need to consider is whether NHBC has treated her unfairly once its 
liabilities materialised under the policy. From what Ive seen  in respect of the time frame of 
this complaint  it has. And so, I wont be asking it to pay compensation. 
I know my decision will disappoint Miss L but for the reasons Ive explained above I hope 
she can appreciate why I havent upheld her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman