DRN-4360793
The complaint
Mr O complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money (Virgin), didnt send him 
statements, which led to charges and defaults being unfairly reported to Credit Reference 
Agencies.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr O opened a credit card account with Virgin with a £1000 credit limit.
Mr O requested to receive paper statements and declined Virgins on-line and telephone 
banking services.
Mr O credited his account with funds so he could make a purchase for £2500. However, he 
changed his mind on the purchase and instead of requesting a repayment of the additional 
funds he decided to use it for daily expenditure items. 
Mr O says that, between June and October 2019, he didnt receive a number of statements 
so he couldnt verify what he had spent and his outstanding balance. He explains that he 
didnt get responses from Virgin when he contacted them to request this information and 
when he saw a credit marker on his credit report he realised there had been defaults.
However, when Mr O complained, Virgin said that he had only contacted them about the 
non-receipt of statements in late November 2019 and this was after they had notified him 
about late payments and taken arrears action. Also, their collections team had made 
unsuccessful efforts to contact Mr O.
Virgin did though apologise for their complaint communication service and credited Mr Os 
account with £50 compensation.
Mr O complained to our service as he wanted to receive a refund of charges and have the 
defaults removed from his credit file. However, our investigator couldnt see that Virgin had 
made any errors and didnt uphold his complaint. 
As Mr O remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the investigator has reached the right conclusion here. I dont think 
Virgin has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its dealings with Mr O and Ill explain why.
Mr O says that, between June and October 2019, he didnt receive a number of statements 
and he couldnt verify his expenditure. So, I checked the information on file, including system 
records, to see if Virgin had used the correct address and actioned Mr Os request for free 
paper statements to be posted, as set out in their terms and conditions. I couldnt see that 
Virgin had made any errors here. There is evidence on file which shows Virgin set up a 
monthly paper statement facility for Mr Os account. Also, they had the correct address listed 
and there were no records of any post being returned. 
Its unclear how many statements Mr O didnt receive between June and October 2019. The 
information on file indicates that Mr O did receive some statements together with letters at 
the address he registered. Mr O says he believed the statement for June 2019 was received 
following his request at a Virgin branch that he visited and, in his correspondence to Virgin, 
he refers to letters dated 16 October and 1 November 2019 which he received. 
So, considering the above, I am satisfied that Virgin dispatched the statements and the non-
receipt of statements wasnt due to a Virgin error. Whilst it isnt possible to know what 
happened to the missing statements, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Virgin 
responsible for postal issues.
As Mr O experienced statement issues, I looked at alternative ways Mr O couldve accessed 
his statement or got information on his transactions, account balance and minimum 
payment.
Virgin offered on-line or telephone banking, however for an unknown reason Mr O declined 
these services. Whilst this was Mr Os prerogative, these banking services enable customers 
to access statements and balances. They are in place for busy customers like Mr O and act 
as a preventative measure, so customers dont have to worry about paper statements being 
delayed or not being received. In addition, as banks cant control postal delivery services 
and cant be held responsible if mail gets lost or misplaced, they prevent paper statement 
issues impacting upon customers and enable them to meet their contractual obligations. 
Virgin customers also have access to a branch network and Mr O describes visiting two 
branches between July and September 2019. And, where customers have difficulties 
making payments, Virgin have a collections team who will reach out to them. The file shows 
that Mr O was able to use this branch network and that Virgins collection team tried to make 
contact with him.
Mr O is categoric that he didnt receive some statements. He says that he had no idea what 
the state of my account was from one month to the next, refers to the the difficult situation 
they have created and reversed his direct debit payment to Virgin. So, I considered his 
difficult situation and whether his non-payment, which led to fees and defaults, was 
reasonable.
Regarding Mr Os difficulties reconciling his credit card account, a contributory factor 
appears to be that he wasnt using his account as intended. Whilst I appreciate the reason, 
he has given for putting his account in credit and using it for everyday expenditure, the terms 
and conditions that Mr O signed up to say:
 You must not make payments that put your account in credit.
Regarding non-payment and the non-receipt of statements, Virgins terms and conditions 
say:
 Each month, you must pay at least the Minimum Payment in pounds sterling, shown 
on your statement
 If we do not receive the Minimum Payment by the payment date, we will apply the 
late payment default charge set out in our Tariff. We will also let Credit Reference Agencies 
know you have not paid You must tell us straight away if:
o you do not receive a statement when you expect one
o you are not able to access your statement
o you think something on your statement is wrong
File notes show that Mr O chose to use his account differently and relied on paper 
statements which Virgin dispatched. Although Mr O says he did receive some statements 
after visiting branches, I cant see that Virgin were made aware that Mr O had reconciliation 
and statement difficulties until it was too late. This is because Mr O informed Virgin of his 
difficulties in late November which was after he had reversed his direct debit and Virgin had 
made collection efforts and sent their missed payment letters. 
Virgin clearly set out to Mr O how he should use the account, what to do if statements 
werent received together with minimum payment requirements. Also, Virgin didnt make a 
mistake issuing statements and gave Mr O facilities and opportunities to reconcile his 
account and avoid the charges and defaults. Furthermore, Virgin gave Mr O the opportunity 
to settle his missed payments. Their customer contact records show they made outbound 
calls and, although they were unable to speak to Mr O, they left messages and sent missed 
payment letters which Mr O received.
So, having considered all of the above, Im satisfied that Virgins charges, defaults and 
Credit Reference Agency reporting actions were fair and reasonable and Im not upholding 
this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman