DRN-2079087
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way the The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (the 
Prudential) dealt with his purchase of an annuity which meant he got less income than he 
couldve.
What happened
Mr B said that in August 2018 he was considering buying an annuity. The Prudential sent 
him three quotes. He had settled on the highest but before accepting he was contacted by 
the Prudential. It said it was going to offer a new service from September offering a wider 
choice of annuity quotes which should ensure he got the highest price. He said that on that 
basis he deferred accepting the quote provided. Following further advice from The Prudential 
he deferred his retirement date by a year to 2019. The following year he asked for new 
quotes and was sent six. The top three providers were the same as the year before and in 
the same order. He thought it odd the top three were identical to the position the year before. 
However, the terms offered a lower annuity than he wouldve got the year before. He felt 
hed been misled and misadvised by the Prudential. He felt the only reason he lost out was 
because of the intervention by the Prudential. He wanted the Prudential to make up the 
shortfall and make a payment for distress and inconvenience.
The Prudential listened to the call recording with Mr B in summer 2018. It said it didnt think it 
gave him any advice about not taking his benefits at that point. It didnt uphold the complaint.
The investigator said he didnt think the Prudential needed to take any action. He said Mr B 
first complained in autumn 2018 complaining about a reduction in his fund value. The 
Prudential replied on 29 October 2018 and advised of the option to refer the complaint to this 
service within the following six-months. As Mr B didnt bring this complaint to this service 
within that six-month time limit this service wasnt able to investigate it.
He also said hed listened to a recording of the call from August 2018. At the start the agent 
from the Prudential made clear he would only provide factual information and not financial 
advice. The agent made Mr B aware he could defer accepting his annuity quote to make use 
of the new annuity service. Mr B said he picked an annuity but hadnt reviewed other annuity 
providers yet. Mr B asked if he didnt go ahead would he have the option to review his 
annuity through the new service. The agent confirmed this as the new service would provide 
more options from more companies. He didnt need to decide now but could shop around or 
use the new service that was available from early September 2018. The investigator said he 
was satisfied that the Prudential didnt give any financial advice but instead made Mr B 
aware of his options and didnt tell him to delay taking his annuity. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said that the August 2018 call was unsolicited and the result of it was 
that he was persuaded to delay taking his annuity. He didnt think making a call was normal 
and felt that important changes should be communicated in writing so that customers 
understood the full facts and could make a considered decision. He thought failing to do this 
wasnt professional or legal. Secondly, he was on holiday at the time of the call so couldnt 
check what was being said. What was very clear to him was that by delaying he could 
benefit from a wider choice of the market and by implication better value than what was on 
offer at the time.
He hadnt had the benefit of listening to the call, but any interpretation was subjective. He 
objected that the investigators letter referred to him by his surname whereas references to 
the agent used a first name. He felt this seemed over friendly and created a sense of 
deference towards the Prudential which he didnt feel was impartial. 
Lastly, he said the timescale of the delay in taking the annuity was due to subsequent 
circumstances following that conversation. Because of the delay the Prudential told him he 
must change his retirement date to August 2019.
The investigator said the call showed Mr B was told the new service would provide more 
choice not a better deal. He also sent on the call recording. Mr B didnt change his mind and 
said that the fact the top three companies offered were the same and in the same order 
showed the new wider choice didnt really exist.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B complains that there was a fall in his fund value and secondly about the issues 
surrounding the delay in taking out an annuity.
There are rules governing what this service can consider. These are set out in the Dispute 
Resolution Rules or DISP. DISP 2.8.2 says that this service cannot consider a complaint if 
the complainant refers it to this service (1) more than six months after the date on which 
the respondent sent the complainant its final response. 
I can see from the papers that Mr B raised a complaint about the fall in value of his policy in 
late 2018 and the Prudential issued a final response to Mr B on 29 October 2018 and 
advised that he had six months to complain to this service. As it was more than six months 
after 29 October that Mr B referred this matter to this service, we cannot consider it.
With respect to his complaint that he suffered due to advice from the Prudential I can 
consider this as he made complaint to this service within the six-month time limit. 
I have reviewed all the papers on the file and listened to the call between Mr B and the 
Prudential from mid-2018. 
I note in the introduction to the call that Mr B is told the call is being recorded, and that what 
will be provided is information and not financial advice. However just saying that it isnt 
financial advice doesnt mean that he wasnt given advice. I have therefore carefully 
considered the substance of what was said.
It is clear the intention of the call is to advise Mr B that a new service is being introduced 
from 3 September 2018. After that date instead of providing annuity quotes from three 
providers, customers will be offered a service looking at more options. The adviser says this 
should ensure customers get the highest income from their annuity. 
Mr B suggests that he understood using the service would give him a better income than the 
ones already quoted. But I dont think that is the case. While the adviser refers to the highest 
income, I think it is clear he is referring to the highest income available from reviewing all the 
options at that time and not just from three providers, that doesnt mean other providers will give a higher quote. Mr B himself says that he is currently considering the highest of the 
three quotes but hadnt yet gone online to check comparisons. So, it is clear to me that he 
understood he may or may not find a higher quote in the open market. There is no 
suggestion that the new service will offer a better rate just ensure he explores more 
providers to ensure he finds the best rate then available for him.
Also, in the call, Mr B reconfirmed that he understood the new service is available from third 
September 2018 and says he will decide whether to take up the current offer but is aware 
the new service is available from that date. Had Mr B thought the new service would ensure 
he got a better rate then I dont think he wouldve said he would consider the existing offer 
and then decide what to do. 
I dont think the adviser provided any financial advice but instead provided information. I say 
that because the adviser confirms to Mr B that his options are to go ahead with the current 
papers or to call back after 3 September if he wishes to use the new service. So, the adviser 
doesnt make any recommendation. There is some discussion about whether the new 
service will repeat all the compliance requirements to date and therefore be time consuming. 
But there is no recommendation as to which the better option is, nor any suggestion he must 
use the new service at all. 
Mr B also says that the result of that call directly resulted in him not taking the original 
annuity offer and that the Prudential made him delay his retirement age. But I dont agree. I 
say that because at the end of the call it is clear he is going to go and consider his options. 
He didnt say that he was going to delay his decision in order to use the new service and he 
does not in fact do that as he didnt immediately contact the new service.
I can also see that by the time of the August 2018 call Mr Bs selected retirement date has 
already passed. His next main contact is around October 2018 when he complains about the 
fall in fund value. It isnt until June 2019 that the Prudential contacts him to ask about his 
retirement date and advise that the minimum deferral period is a year. So, it seems the delay 
in the retirement date isnt raised until nearly a year later and as his retirement date had 
already passed when he spoke in August 2018. So I cannot conclude that the delay meant 
the Prudential made him change his retirement date. It seems instead the change in 
retirement date is because of Mr B not progressing to accept any of the offers or to take up 
one from the market by his selected retirement date. 
Even if I am wrong in that conclusion based on the call the Prudential didnt advise him to 
delay taking the annuity and use the new service nor delay his retirement date. While the 
delay in taking the annuity terms offered in 2018 has meant his retirement date was moved 
to 2019, based on the evidence I cant reasonably conclude that the delay was caused by 
any advice from Prudential.
I have considered that the call was unsolicited and received while he was away on holiday 
and there was nothing in writing. I can understand that he may not have been focused on the 
annuity issues as he was on holiday and may not have had papers to hand at that time. But 
having listened to the call recording I think Mr B was clear of his options at the end of the call 
and not under any impression that he should delay. Indeed, it seemed he was still intent on 
finishing his consideration of the current offer and comparing others before he decided. He 
wasnt being given details of a new annuity offer so I dont think it mattered that he didnt 
have any papers to hand and wasnt provided with written information at that time. I say that 
because he didnt need to refer to any details as the call simply advised him of a new service 
he might wish to use. 
I note Mr Bs comments about the new quotes and that the new service didnt give him wider 
choice. I note he says the top three quotes were from the same providers and in the same order as the previous year. But it is clear there were more quotes and the Prudential didnt 
guarantee the wider choice would bring a better rate. The greater number of quotes just 
offered the potential to find one that was better than the three the Prudential would have 
provided. Whether or not the other quotes were better wouldve depended on Mr Bs details 
and the market at that time. So, I dont think Mr B was misled even though the service didnt 
actually find him a better offer.
So, for the reasons given I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this compliant.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman