DRN-3835762
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds handling of his request to withdraw 
some of his personal pension funds. 
What happened
On 17 June 2022 Mr H called Aviva to withdraw £25,000 from his Aviva personal pension 
funds. Aviva said it would send him the necessary form within five working days. 
Mr H called Aviva on 28 June 2022, as hed not received it. He says he was left waiting a 
total of 20 minutes before Aviva told him it hadnt sent the form and had no idea when hed 
receive his funds, but it would be as soon as possible. Mr H was unhappy about this, so 
Aviva logged a complaint. Mr H also called Aviva the next day, and says it explained his 
initial request had been miscategorised but would be dealt with as soon as possible. Mr H 
received the form on 1 July 2022 and completed and returned it to Aviva the same day.
At around the same time, Mr H approached our Service. He said his pension values had 
been falling and Avivas delay and uncertainty meant he couldnt time his withdrawal to 
mitigate his loss or best balance his income needs with fund value. That Aviva hadnt been 
sympathetic or apologetic, or acknowledged his efforts, but had caused him a great deal of 
distress as he relied on this pension. Mr H wanted compensation for his loss of fund value, 
costs of alternative sources of income, and distress and inconvenience. 
Mr H called Aviva on 11 July 2022 as hed not received payment, and says it apologised for 
not processing it within five working days of receiving his form but would do so as soon as 
possible. Aviva processed the payment on 13 July 2022 and Mr H received it the next day. 
In its final response to Mr Hs complaint, Aviva apologised for its call waiting times and the 
delay in sending Mr H a form and making payment. It explained that if it had paid Mr H when 
it should have on 1 July 2022, hed have been worse off. But it had paid him £15.55 plus a 
further £9.07 of interest to compensate him for not having use of his funds when he should 
have, plus a further £100 for his distress and inconvenience. Aviva also offered to consider 
any further evidence of financial loss Mr H provided. 
Mr H and Aviva had further communication. Mr H thought this wasnt enough and didnt 
address Avivas seeming lack of controls, training, and ability to manage his pension in 
future. He thought Avivas lack of timescales for withdrawal had exposed its customers to 
liquidity risks and he didnt want this to happen again to him or others. He said he wouldnt 
have automatically returned his form the same day he received it but would instead have 
timed his withdrawal to best effect, so Aviva should pay him the maximum gain he could 
have achieved between 17 June 2022 and his withdrawal deadline of 4 August 2022. 
Mr H remained unhappy with Avivas further clarifications, so our Service investigated his 
complaint.  Our Investigator explained the role and remit of our Service to Mr H. She said 
Aviva had accepted it made errors but had already taken fair and reasonable steps to put 
things right.
Mr H and our Investigator communicated further. Mr H confirmed hed not had to find 
alternative funds, but Avivas lack of concern, explanation and certainty left him worried 
about his funds and Avivas financial viability and was especially distressing because of his 
personal experience of mismanaged and lost pension funds. And he cancelled or postponed 
unnecessary expenses, including a holiday and medical treatment, and began looking into 
alternative income from another pension and his overdraft. Mr H said hed lost confidence 
about withdrawing his Aviva pension funds in future and his poor experience was so serious 
as to have caused Aviva to make the recent improvements hed noticed to its withdrawal 
process. So Mr H thought compensation of about £1,250 was fairer here.  
Ultimately, our Investigator didnt change her view. As agreement couldnt be reached, this 
complaint came to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has provided us with detailed comments and points, and Id like to reassure him that 
Ive carefully considered everything both he and Aviva have provided. But while I mean no 
discourtesy, my decision wont address every point Mr H has raised. Instead, it will only 
address what I think is relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint. 
Id also like to be clear about the role and remit of our Service. Its not our role to tell a 
business how it should operate or what its processes and training should be, or to consider 
how its treated a broad group of customers. Instead, those are matters for the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority.  
The role of our Service is to impartially investigate individual complaints, and if we think a 
business has made errors, to tell the business what it needs to do to put the consumer back 
into the position they should have been in if not for those errors. 
Aviva accepts it made errors by not sending both the withdrawal form and payment to Mr H 
as soon as it should have. Its explained these delays were due to its mis-categorisation of 
his 17 June 2022 request and its backlogs of payment requests. So, whats left for me to 
decide is whether Avivas errors caused Mr H any financial loss, distress and inconvenience 
And if so, what would be a fair and reasonable way to put things right. 
Its not disputed Aviva should have sent Mr H a withdrawal form within five working days of 
his request, so by 24 June 2022 at the latest. Aviva has assumed Mr H would have returned 
the form the same day (as he later in fact did), so says it should have used the value as it 
stood on 24 June 2022 and processed payment to Mr H by 1 July 2022 at the latest. Mr H 
says he wouldnt simply have returned the form on the same day but would instead have 
timed it to achieve maximum value from his fund. I acknowledge Mr H monitored his funds 
and understandably wanted to achieve the best value. But the fund value would change 
every day depending on investment performance. And Mr H wouldnt be able to accurately 
predict when his funds had reached their peak value, as he couldnt know what the value 
would subsequently be. So even if Aviva hadnt made any errors, its not reasonable to think 
Mr H wouldve withdraw his funds at their highest possible value before his deadline of 
4 August 2022.  
Instead, I think its reasonable in these circumstances to assume hed still have returned his 
completed form the same day, as he later did. And Im satisfied Aviva hasnt caused any 
financial loss to Mr Hs pension fund. I say that because based on the evidence provided to 
me, I can see Aviva has compared the notional value of Mr Hs funds on the date it should have used (24 June 2022) with their value on the date it did use (1 July 2022). And this 
shows that Aviva would have needed to encash more of Mr Hs fund units on 24 June 2022 
to provide him with the £25,000 he wanted to withdraw. So it didnt cause him a financial loss 
there.
I appreciate that Mr H thought it best to cancel or postpone some of his planned expenditure 
and begin exploring other avenues of income. Mr H has had the opportunity to provide 
evidence of any financial loss this caused but hasnt provided any. Therefore, Ive not seen  
enough evidence to fairly say Aviva caused him a consequential financial loss here either. 
However, its not disputed that Mr H should have received his £25,000 sooner. As I say, 
Aviva should have processed the payment on 1 July 2022. And Aviva paid Mr H using the 
Faster Payments method, which its entitled to do, and this means it takes 24 hours for 
payment to reach the recipients account. Therefore, Im satisfied Aviva caused an 
unnecessary payment delay of just under two weeks here. So Aviva should compensate 
Mr H for not having the use of his funds for that period, and I think the £15.55 plus a further 
£9.07 of interest Aviva has already paid Mr H for that is fair and reasonable. 
Im also satisfied Aviva caused Mr H some distress and inconvenience. Mr H needed to 
contact Aviva on several occasions to chase what hed asked for. And it left him uncertain 
about when he would receive his payment, which I understand would have caused 
Mr H some worry and frustration, especially in light of his personal experiences and reliance 
on this for income. But I think that inconvenience was relatively minor, and that distress was 
over a relatively short period of time. Because Mr H first asked for a withdrawal form on 
17 June 2022 and received his funds by 14 July 2022. And while Aviva didnt guarantee 
when hed receive payment between these dates, it did reassure him that it would be as 
soon as possible. 
I understand Aviva didnt initially apologise to Mr H, and he thinks its been unsympathetic 
and unconcerned. But based on what Mr H has told us and the correspondence Ive seen 
between Aviva and Mr H, I think Aviva did apologise once it had looked into his concerns, 
and that it tried to explain what had happened with his withdrawal and put things right. The 
tone of that correspondence was professional and polite. So, Im satisfied Aviva hasnt done 
anything wrong here.  
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Aviva has already taken fair and reasonable 
steps to put things right, so Im not asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not asking Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to do 
anything further here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman