DRN-3449035
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, repeatedly blocked his 
account when he was trying to transfer money online. And he had to wait to receive a 
passcode by letter to get the block lifted. 
What happened
Mr P made a payment that was put on hold on 7 October 2021. Unable to speak to Mr P 
Virgin Money applied a fraud block to Mr Ps account on 8 October 2021. As it had been 
unable to contact Mr P by phone it sent a letter with the passcode that he needed to call in 
with to get his account unblocked. He did this on 16 October 2021, but Virgin Money failed to 
lift the block. On 18 October 2021 Mr P called back to resolve this and to make a complaint. 
The block was then lifted but reapplied the same day as the second attempted payment on 
that day re-triggered a block. Virgin Money left a voicemail message for Mr P. When he 
called back on 19 October 2021 the block was removed and the payment released. 
Virgin Money explained that its fraud detection system identified Mr Ps spending pattern as 
unusual and so it needed to contact him to verify the spend as genuine. When it cant get 
through to accountholders it issues a letter. It accepts human error on its part meant the 
block was not lifted when Mr P first called in. For the inconvenience this caused it paid Mr P 
£50 compensation and apologised. 
Mr P brought his complaint to this service saying £50 compensation does not adequately 
reflect the substandard service he received. He asks for £200. He adds it makes no sense 
he has to wait for letters through the post in an online banking environment. Every time he 
had to call the wait times were excessive and the complaint manager did not call him back 
as committed. He was without access to his account for 16 days and this caused significant 
inconvenience and stress that exacerbated his health issues.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. She said whilst Virgin Money had made an 
error when it failed to lift the block she was satisfied it acted fairly when it applied the 
block(s). It acted to protect Mr Ps account and in line with the terms of his account. It had 
apologised for the service lapses and she felt £50 compensation was fair.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr P asked for an ombudsmans review. He said, in 
summary, Virgin Money has not acted in line with the principles set out by the regulator to 
ensure customers are treated fairly. Despite him transferring £1 before the larger amounts of 
£10,000 his account was blocked. He should not have to wait 3-5 days for a passcode in the 
post. Why did Virgin Money continue to block the account after the payee was set up and 
transfers were made? His complaint was not registered as he requested. The banks actions 
have contributed to the deterioration in his health and this is beyond reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint. I have read and considered all of        
Mr Ps points carefully but in keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service I 
will focus here on those that I find to be material to the outcome of his complaint
The investigator concluded that Virgin Money had acted fairly when it blocked Mr Ps 
account. She said how its Fraud Detection system operates is a commercial matter for Virgin 
Money, but Mr P said this service must have a remit to look at incidents where banks have 
not behaved fairly. And that Virgin Moneys actions would be understandable had the payee 
not already been set up, or had prior transactions not been made.  
But for me to agree with Mr Ps last point I would be challenging the underlying logic and 
commercial decisioning of Virgin Moneys fraud prevention system which we do not have the 
powers to do. I dont find that its actions were unfair  the blocks were applied in response to 
certain activity on the account. Our investigator set out the terms of Mr Ps account that 
supports this so I will not repeat them here. There is no evidence they were applied 
incorrectly, rather Mr P disagrees with the logic behind the decisions. But in these 
circumstances there are no grounds for me to fairly conclude Virgin Money acted in error 
when it blocked Mr Ps account. 
Virgin Money has evidenced that it attempted to call Mr P but was unable to make contact 
and thats why it sent a passcode by letter. I accept that introduced a lag, but equally from 
the timeline of events it doesnt appear that Mr P called the bank on immediate receipt of 
that letter. It is not in dispute between the parties that when Mr P did call Virgin Money failed 
to lift the block. It has apologised and explained it was human error. I find this response is 
reasonable, although I accept it does not alleviate Mr Ps frustration. Mr P has reiterated he 
was without access to his account for 16 days. Virgin Money asked for evidence of any 
financial loss he suffered as a result, but he did not supply any so I do not need to take this 
into account when considering the compensation. 
Mr P is also unhappy he didnt receive a call back from a complaints manager and his 
complaint wasnt registered at first. The bank has accepted he didnt receive the service he 
expected and apologised for this. 
Mr P also asked that I take into account that the banks actions caused his health to 
deteriorate. I have reviewed the medical evidence he has sent in. And whilst I am very sorry 
he has been suffering in this way I cant see from the evidence that Virgin Money 
exacerbated his issues. The letter of 27 October 2021 dates the relevant medical diagnosis 
as January 2020, and notes that since changes to his medication, which seem to have been 
mid-2021, his condition has been better controlled. So I cant fairly link these events of 
October 2021 as a causal event in his medical situation, or see that there was any recorded 
deterioration at the time. I do understand that the frustrations the events created for Mr P 
wont have helped him, but that isnt the same conclusion.
Overall, I find Virgin Money acted fairly and reasonably in its application and communication 
of the blocks. Its service at times fell short of what Mr P reasonably expected  when the first 
block wasnt removed on time and when his complaint wasnt actioned. But I think its 
apology, feedback and training for the relevant business area, and the £50 compensation 
already paid is a fair resolution in the circumstances.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman