DRN-2657309
The complaint
Miss A complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) caused inconvenience by 
returning her phone without it being properly repaired and sending her a second phone in 
error. 
What happened
Miss A took out a mobile phone insurance policy that was underwritten by Great Lakes in 
January 2017. The policy was renewed each year, including on 28 January 2020.
Miss A submitted a claim to Great Lakes on 13 September 2020. The claim was accepted by 
Great Lakes as accidental damage. Miss A sent her phone to Great Lakes to be repaired.
Great Lakes completed the repairs and returned Miss As phone to her on 24 September 
2020. It also sent a second phone in error at the same time, which was unconnected to 
Miss As claim. 
Great Lakes contacted Miss A on 30 September 2020 and explained that the second phone 
had been sent in error. It asked Miss A to send the phone back to it and arranged for it to be 
collected by a courier. Miss A told Great Lakes she was under the impression the second 
phone was a replacement for her phone, as she said her phone had not been returned in full 
working order. Miss A told Great Lakes that she did not want to pay for the cost of packaging 
either of the phones so that they could be returned to Great Lakes. So it agreed to send two 
prepaid packages for the phones. Miss A complained to Great Lakes.
Great Lakes responded to Miss As complaint on 1 October 2020. It apologised to Miss A 
and offered £10 compensation for any inconvenience caused. It said this payment would be 
made when both phones were returned to it. 
Miss A was unhappy with the response from Great Lakes and so complained to this service 
on 7 October 2020. She said that when it was clear her own phone was not working properly 
after being returned by Great Lakes, she concluded that the other phone had been sent as a 
replacement. She said Great Lakes then asked her to pack and return the second phone 
and this would have left her with no phone. Miss A said Great Lakes then suggested it could 
send prepaid boxes for both phones and Miss A said an agreement was reached that she 
would post these back, subject to appropriate compensation being provided by Great Lakes. 
Miss A said she doesnt think £10 is enough compensation. 
Great Lakes contacted Miss A on 19 October 2020. It told her that she could keep the 
second phone on loan until her own phone was repaired. Great Lakes said it would then 
expect Miss A to return the second phone to it before it returned her repaired phone to her. 
Miss A told Great Lakes she had bought a new phone and didnt intend to do anything with 
the other two phones until advised by this service how best to proceed. 
Great Lakes again contacted Miss A on 21 October 2020 and reiterated what it already said 
about returning her faulty phone and keeping the second phone as a loan phone. It said 
Miss A had already been supplied with a copy of its loan agreement. Great Lakes said as 
Miss A had opted to take no action until she heard from this service, which could take some 
time, then during that time she would be in possession of a phone which it considers to be its 
property. It said its important for Miss A to understand that this places her under a degree of 
responsibility to ensure the phone is kept safe and undamaged. It said if the phone is 
returned in a damaged or faulty state, it reserves the right to seek redress towards any 
associated costs. 
Miss A responded to Great Lakes and said its request to return both phones was not part of 
any contractual arrangements between Miss A and it, and so she said compensation for her 
doing so should be fair and proportionate. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss As complaint. She said while the mix up wasnt Miss As 
fault, once Great Lakes knew about the issues with the repair and second phone, it took 
steps to try and rectify the situation. Our investigator said Great Lakes didnt need to pay 
more than the £10 compensation already offered.  
Miss A disagreed with what our investigator said and so this has come to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 15 February 2021 and said I did not intend to uphold this 
complaint. I said I thought Great Lakes did what it could to try and minimise the impact on 
Miss A once she told it her phone wasnt working and so I wasnt intending to ask it to take 
any further action. I gave both parties the opportunity to respond. 
Miss A responded and made the following points: 
Miss A said Great Lakes said the second phone belongs to another customer and 
this service hasnt requested further information about this fact. 
The decision has focused on what was done to correct the error made by Great 
Lakes, but should have focused on the distress and inconvenience caused by Great 
Lakes actions to undo their own error. 
The decision avoided looking at whether Miss A is contractually obliged to rectify the 
error made by Great Lakes. 
The decision considered the £10 compensation offered as fair, but this does not take 
into account the inconvenience of travelling to a post office under current national 
lockdown conditions. 
Great Lakes responded and said it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint. 
I want to assure Miss A that Ive taken note of all of the information relating to this complaint, 
including her responses to the provisional decision. But Miss As responses have not 
changed my decision. 
Phone sent to Miss A in error
My understanding is that at this point in time Miss A is still in possession of the phone sent to 
her in error by Great Lakes. And Miss A has told Great Lakes that she doesnt intend to 
return the phone until this service suggests a way forward. Miss A also said she wants to be 
adequately compensated for having to deal with the error Great Lakes made in sending this 
phone to her.  Miss A wants this service to comment on whether shes contractually obliged to return the 
phone. But I dont intend to do that. I make no finding on this point, but its my understanding 
that Great Lakes has the option of taking legal action if Miss A doesnt return the phone at 
some stage. And so I dont think it would be fair  and I have to be fair to both parties  to 
make a finding that might tie the hands of Great Lakes and potentially limit any action it 
might want to take in the future. 
Does Great Lakes need to take any further action in relation to the phone sent in error
Its important to say here that this service doesnt impose penalties on businesses when they 
make mistakes  that is one of the roles of the regulator. What we do is look at how a 
mistake might have impacted on a consumer and then decide whether it would be fair to ask 
a business to pay compensation for any distress or inconvenience. 
Ive looked at how Great Lakes responded once it realised it sent the phone in error and 
whether it needs to take further action. 
Miss A understandably wants to avoid incurring any costs attached to packaging and 
returning the phone. And if she had agreed to the phone being picked up by a courier, then 
she would have had to package the phone first at her own expense. So Great Lakes sent a 
pre-paid package, to avoid any postage and packing costs. But this meant the phone would 
need to be taken to a post office, rather than be picked up by a courier. So the 
inconvenience to Miss A is that she will need to travel to a post office, and potentially pay for 
parking, to sort this matter out. Great Lakes has offered Miss A £10 compensation, which it 
said it will pay after the phone has been returned. 
Theres no doubt that this matter has caused Miss A some inconvenience. Im satisfied that 
Great Lakes has done what it can to minimise that inconvenience and that the amount of 
£10 compensation offered by Great Lakes is fair. I know that Great Lakes offer of 
compensation was conditional on Miss A returning the phone, but I will be asking Great 
Lakes to pay this amount now.  
Miss As phone
I have no way of knowing whether Miss As phone was working when it was dispatched to 
her by Great Lakes. I know that Great Lakes said it was working, but Miss A said it was 
damaged by the time it got to her. In any event, the issue here is that Miss A expected a 
working phone to be delivered and it seems likely that hasnt happened. So, what needs to 
happen now is for Great Lakes to look again at Miss As phone and decide what the next 
appropriate step is, subject to the policy terms. And Miss A would need to return her phone 
to Great Lakes for this to happen. I will leave it to Miss A to see if thats what she wants to 
do, as its up to her to decide whether she wants to continue with the claim. 
It might well be the case that Miss As policy has expired at this stage. But I think that if 
Miss A returns her phone to Great Lakes within a reasonable amount of time, and that if 
Great Lakes is satisfied the damage to the phone is consistent with the original claim and the 
damage reported by Miss A when she told Great Lakes that the returned phone wasnt 
working, then Great Lakes should consider this matter as part of her original claim. 
Miss As insurance policy covers the cost of repairing or replacing her phone, but it doesnt 
cover her for any inconvenience she might experience as a result of her phone being 
repaired or replaced. And this includes being without a phone for a period of time or having 
to arrange to send the phone to Great Lakes or its authorised repairer. Great Lakes sent a pre-paid package so that Miss A could return her phone without needing 
to pay packing or postage costs. And so Im satisfied Great Lakes did what it could to try and 
minimise the impact on Miss A once she told it her phone wasnt working and so it doesnt 
need to take any further action at this stage. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, although I require Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to pay Miss A the £10 compensation it has itself already offered her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman