DRN-2239832
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2001. Mr and Mrs F paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr F, in case he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs case. 
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Fs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs F signed and submitted a form specifically to apply for the PPI, where they 
chose what kind of cover they wanted. They did this separately to applying for the mortgage 
itself. And similarly, they set up a direct debit to pay for the PPI, separately to paying for the 
mortgage  the PPI was not part and parcel of the lending. I can see that, later on, when 
there was a problem with the direct debit they wrote to Lloyds to pay some premiums by 
cheque and set up a new direct debit, so they were aware theyd bought PPI. So I think its 
most likely that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs F aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, 
and that they chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if they no longer recall 
doing so after so many years. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs F, so it had to check it was right for them. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr F was the sole earner, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt affected by any of 
its main exclusions or limitations. While he may have had some benefits through work, he 
understandably couldnt remember what they were. But the PPI wouldve paid out on top of 
his work benefits and most likely covered him for longer. And without PPI, there was a 
serious risk that if Mr F was off sick or lost his job then Mr and Mrs F couldve fallen behind 
on the mortgage and lost their home. So the PPI could have really been useful for them in 
protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs F about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs F chose to take out PPI, which indicates 
they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr F wasnt affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs F in 
case something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would 
pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs F could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely 
to have put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman