DRN-4398894
The complaint
Mrs Bs complained  on behalf of her mother, Mrs P, and her late father, Mr Ps estate  
that Co-op Funeral Plans Limited wont provide a refund for a pre-paid plan bought before 
she knew her parents had previously bought a joint plan.
What happened
Mrs B holds lasting power of attorney for Mrs P and held one for Mr P in his lifetime.  In 
2011, acting as their attorney, she bought a pre-paid funeral plan for each of her parents, 
and paid £2,824 and £2,947 respectively.  Mr P sadly died in 2012 and his funeral was 
provided in accordance with the terms of his plan.
At around this time, Mrs B found a receipt for £1,500 in her fathers papers.  The receipt was 
attached to a compliments slip from the Co-operative funeral service, on which was typed 
£1,500.00 pre-payment cert. Paid.  Mrs B understands this to be a receipt for a joint funeral 
plan bought by Mr P for himself and Mrs P in 2001.
Mrs B contacted Co-op as she wanted to be able to rely on the 2001 plan to cover the cost 
of Mr Ps funeral, to provide Mrs Ps funeral when the need arises and to cancel the plans 
she bought in 2011.  However, Co-op were unable to find any details of a plan purchased by 
Mr P and think it was cancelled.
Mrs B complained.  Co-op responded, confirming that joint plans only provided a funeral for 
one or other of a couple  so if there was a such a plan in place, Mrs B would still have to 
pay for the other funeral.  And Co-op said searches of their records hadnt found details of a 
joint plan.  So they thought it was no longer active.  
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with Co-ops response and brought the complaint to our service.  She 
says the receipt shes produced is clear evidence that a plan was bought in 2001 as there 
would be no other service it could relate to.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded Co-op didnt need to do any more 
to resolve it.  He said that, if the joint plan still existed, hed expect Co-op to have a record of 
this.  He was satisfied theyd made thorough searches of their records but there was no 
trace of the plan.  In the circumstances, he thought the most likely explanation was that the 
2001 joint plan had been cancelled at some point before 2011.  And he explained that, given 
that at least 12 years had passed since then, it was reasonable that Co-op no longer held 
records relating to the plan.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding the complaint Mrs Bs made on behalf of Mrs P and     
Mr Ps estate.  I know Mrs B was hoping for a different outcome and Im sorry shell be 
disappointed.  I hope explaining my reasons will help her understand why Ive reached my 
decision.
I understand why Mrs B complained.  But I can only say Co-op should do more to resolve 
that complaint if Im satisfied they did something wrong.  And I dont think the available 
evidence shows they did.
Like our investigator, Im satisfied the receipt provided by Mrs B shows that Mr P bought 
some type of pre-paid funeral plan in 2001.  But there are no other documents available 
showing key information such as the details of the arrangements made, or a plan or 
certificate number.
I understand Mrs P was very sadly burgled at some point and Mrs B says additional 
documentation was lost in the burglary.  That has made it difficult for Co-op to search their 
records.  Nonetheless, Im satisfied theyve done so, and havent been able to trace a live 
plan for Mr and/or Mrs P dating from 2001.
Mrs Bs position is the receipt clearly shows a plan was bought.  And she says she never 
received a refund while acting as Mr Ps attorney.  I accept her testimony on both these 
points.
But there were approximately ten years between Mr Ps purchase in 2001 and Mrs B buying 
plans for her parents in 2011.  And people do choose to cancel the plans theyve bought.  I 
think its quite possible that the plan was cancelled at some point in this period.  I dont think 
its reasonable to say that the existence of a receipt alone shows a plan still exists.
And I agree with our investigator that, given the searches Co-op have made,  the most likely 
explanation why they cant trace a plan dating back to 2001 is that its been cancelled.  Mrs 
B understandably wants to know exactly when it was cancelled and by whom.  But 
businesses must comply with data protection legislation and not keep records for individuals 
unless they have a reason to do so.  
As it seems most likely the plan was cancelled at least 12 years ago, I cant say its 
unreasonable for Co-op not to have a record of cancellation now.  Im satisfied theyve 
searched their records and relayed their findings to Mrs B.  I dont think they need to do any 
more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding the complaint Mrs Bs made about Co-op 
Funeral Plans Limited on behalf of Mrs P and the late Mr Ps estate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and the 
estate of Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman