DRN-3206187
The complaint
Mr H complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) didnt return his laptop 
after he made a claim under his Tech Pack insurance.
 
What happened
Mr H made a claim under his Tech Pack insurance because his laptop screen remained 
blank when switched on. AIG accepted the claim and arranged collection for a repair. Mr H 
chased progress because he didnt hear anything within the timescale promised. AIG later 
confirmed that the laptop was irreparable, and it would settle the claim by cash.
Mr H contacted AIG again to ask for the return of his laptop because it contained sensitive 
data. After agreeing to his request, AIG then explained that it wouldnt be returned because 
the cash settlement had been paid. Mr H didnt think AIG was entitled to keep his laptop or, 
more specifically, the data on it, so he made a complaint. AIG offered compensation of £80 
in recognition of the short delay and contradictory information about whether the laptop could 
be returned. Mr H didnt think AIG had done enough and he still wanted his laptop back.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said AIG had processed the claim in line 
with the terms of the policy and its compensation offer was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr H didnt agree because he didnt think it was right that AIG kept his sensitive data.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr H will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Firstly, theres no dispute that AIG didnt process Mr Hs claim as quickly as it shouldve 
done, or that it gave Mr H conflicting information about the return of his laptop. AIG offered 
£80 by way of compensation but Mr H doesnt think its enough.
Mr H confirmed that the compensation isnt the key issue of complaint, so Ill address it 
briefly. The delay handling his claim was of no more than a week, and AIG corrected the 
conflicting information during the same call in which it provided that information. So, I think 
AIGs compensation offer was reasonable in the circumstances of the relatively minor 
shortfalls in service. 
Mr H didnt think its offer was enough, but I understand its the loss of data on the laptop due 
to AIGs failure to return it which frustrated and inconvenienced him more than the service 
shortfalls. This is the key issue of complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether AIG handled Mr Hs claim in line with the terms of the 
policy and whether it treated him fairly in the circumstances.
Ive listened to the call between AIG and Mr Hs wife when she first made the claim. AIG 
confirmed the claim process and there was no mention of the data on the laptop. The policy 
documents show the claim process and Ive set out the key points here:
How to File a Claim:
For Damage and Breakdown Claims:
When sending in Your Device, DO NOT send in Your SIM or memory cardas these will 
be destroyed. These items will not be returned to You. When Your Device is received, all 
remaining data and content will be erased as part of the claims process. Please ensure 
You take the necessary steps to back-up Your data prior to sending Your Deviceas [the 
insurer] are not responsible for any data or content on Your Device that may be lost during 
the claims process.
Damaged or broken-down Devices and parts and materials replaced by [the insurer] shall 
become Our property. 
Im satisfied the policy clearly explains data on any device sent for repair will be destroyed, 
and its the policyholders responsibility to back-up data before sending the device in for 
repair. So, here, it was Mr Hs responsibility to ensure that hed removed any sensitive data 
from his laptop before he sent it to AIG for a repair or replacement. I cant say AIG did 
anything wrong in respect of this point.
Ive noted Mr Hs comment that he couldnt turn on the laptop so he couldnt have backed-up 
the data. But I see he also told AIG he wanted his laptop back so that he could take it to a 
data recovery specialist. Its clear that the data is the most important aspect of this 
complaint, but I cant fairly say AIG is at fault for its loss. There was a gap of around six 
weeks from Mr H making the claim to AIG collecting the laptop. AIG had the laptop for just 
under two weeks before it confirmed to Mr H that it was irreparable. It was a further five days 
before Mr H said he wanted his laptop back because of the data it held. This evidence 
suggests Mr H had plenty of opportunity to tell AIG about the data and his preference to 
have the laptop returned before it settled his claim.
Having listened to the call recordings and emails AIG provided, I note that it tried to facilitate 
the return of Mr Hs laptop after it settled the claim. While he disagreed in principle about 
returning the cash settlement, believing it to be a very unfair way of operating, he did say 
hed have sent the money back if AIG returned his laptop. However, when AIG checked with 
its repairers, the device was no longer available because it was irreparable. That seems 
reasonable given that AIG had already processed the cash settlement.
Mr H doesnt think the cash settlement was processed until after hed asked for his laptop 
back, so he disagrees that AIG fulfilled his claim. Ive looked at the webchat between Mr H 
and AIG in which AIG confirmed the laptop couldnt be repaired and, because there was no 
replacement stock, it would send a cash settlement. Mr H didnt say anything in the chat 
about wanting his laptop back. Five days later, he asked AIG to return his laptop, but it said it 
had fulfilled his claim. While Mr H may not have received the money until after his request, I 
see that AIG did issue the payment five days earlier. So, I cant agree that it didnt fulfil its 
responsibilities under the policy.
In summary, although the evidence shows AIG couldve provided better customer service, 
Im satisfied it made a fair compensation offer by way of apology. While I understand Mr H 
will be very disappointed that he cant get his data back, Im satisfied that the policy is clear 
on his responsibility to back-up data before sending the laptop in for repair. So, I cant fairly 
hold AIG responsible for its loss and I wont be asking it to do any more.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman