DRN-2614741
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Sainsburys Bank Plc misinformed him when he took out his motor
policy in May 2019, which meant the policy was unsuitable for his needs.
 
What happened
Mr J changes his car every six months through the agreement he has with his employers, so
he needs a motor policy that accommodates this. Mr J owns the car but the registered
keeper if the manufacturers main dealer. He told this to Sainsburys when he took out his
policy.
When he went to change his car six months into this policy, Sainsburys then realised it
didnt provide cover for such rapid changes of cars in this way and because Mr J wasnt the
registered keeper. So, it waived the cancellation charge allowing Mr J to cancel the policy
and paid him £75 compensation.
Mr J didnt think this was sufficient, so he brought his complaint to us. The investigator was
of the view his complaint should be upheld, and that Sainsburys should refund the 
premiums he had paid for his policy with interest, remove any credit reference entries on his 
credit file and increase the total compensation to £150.
Sainsburys agreed to the increase of the compensation but not to the refund of premiums as
Mr J had had coherent cover for the time he was insured. Mr J didnt think £150
compensation was enough, given he effectively lost a years No Claims Bonus (NCB) plus all
the running around he had to do at Christmas time to get a new policy.
Sainsburys increased the compensation to £250 but Mr J decided he wanted an
ombudsmans decision, so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 June and I said the following:
Its very clear here that Sainsburys should not have accepted Mr Js application for a 
motor policy and its advisers misinformed Mr J. That led to the cancellation of his 
policy and the trouble and upset of having to find another policy around Christmas 
time. It also meant he lost out on at least seven months of his NCB. And now he 
must rearrange his policy each Christmas time.
However, Sainsburys have accepted this and offered to pay Mr J £250 
compensation. It also makes the valid point that given Mr J changes his car every six 
months, he would in any event have to contact his insurer half way through to change 
the car to be insured and this would be at Christmas time too.
Turning now to the issue of the refund of premium, I dont consider that should be 
refunded as despite the fact that the reason Mr Js policy was cancelled due to the 
fact that Mr Js car arrangements werent insurable under his policy, Sainsburys 
have said it would have responded to any claim had Mr J needed to make one. Im 
persuaded by this. So effectively Mr J had the benefit of the cover as essentially 
whats called time on risk. So, I consider its right he pays for that despite the fact 
the underwriter wouldnt have insured him had the Sainsburys adviser clarified the 
matter from the beginning. 
Had Mr J needed his cover and Sainsburys then refused to cover him I would be 
making the decision that it ought to have covered him. As Mr J thankfully didnt need 
to avail of his policy, this isnt an issue here.
I consider the £250 compensation to be adequate compensation for the trouble and 
upset that was caused to Mr J to include the loss of his NCB. Taking into account the 
fact that Mr Js policy cost him a total of £392.38 including his credit charges, this 
amount of compensation is effectively more than his time on risk. So, I consider it 
appropriate and reasonable in view of the lost NCB.
Given Sainsburys allowed Mr J cancel the policy, it doesnt affect his insurance 
record or any credit ratings.
Sainsburys agreed with my provisional decision. Mr J didnt and still felt aggrieved by the 
trouble and upset caused by Sainsburys error. He pointed out hes still lost the seven 
months NCB and people change cars all the time so he cant understand why hes been 
penalised. He said Sainsburys only gave him seven days to change the policy which caused 
him further trouble and upset.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, I consider the compensation now offered by 
Sainsburys is fair. Sainsburys couldnt insure Mr J not because he changed his car all the 
time but because of his agreement with his employers he wasnt the registered keeper. Its 
an unusual arrangement therefore not all motor insurers will cover it.
Mr J also makes the point that Sainsburys cant ensure he can recover his NCB. Thats of 
course correct and thats why I consider the £250 compensation adequate. Further I dont 
consider a period of seven days to change a policy which should never have been offered in 
the first place unreasonable, given Mr Js situation wasnt insurable by Sainsburys. The 
important fact for Mr J was that this cancellation didnt affect his insurance record.
 
So, I remain of the view the compensation is adequate taking into account the cost of the 
policy.  
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part.
I now require Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay Mr J a total of £250 compensation for the
trouble and upset caused to include the loss of his NCB. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman