DRN-3881524
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the information given by esure Insurance Limited when she called to 
claim on her motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Mrs Hs car was hit by a van so she called esure to claim on her policy. esure accepted the 
claim and dealt with it under the policy, but also referred Mrs H to an Accident Management 
Company (AMC) to provide a hire car while Mrs Hs was repaired. 
Mrs Hs car was repaired and returned to her, the hire car was also returned to the AMC. A 
few months later Mrs H was contacted by the AMC as it needed her co-operation in 
recovering the hire car charges from the other party. Mrs H said this is around £6,000. 
The AMC has asked Mrs H to provide information about her circumstances at the time of the 
accident to enable it to recover the charges. Mrs H has said theyve been called repeatedly 
and harassed by the AMC and that its asking for personal information she shouldnt have 
to give. Because of this, Mrs H feels esure should resolve these charges with the AMC and 
so complained to esure. 
esure reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said Mrs H entered into a separate 
agreement with the AMC and as long as she co-operates with them, she wont be liable for 
the hire car charges. Mrs H wasnt happy with esures response and so referred her 
complaint here. She said esure recommended she used the AMC and werent clear that she 
could be liable for the hire car costs and thought esure was covering them. She also said 
that if esure had told her there was a risk of being liable for these costs, or that other options 
were available she wouldnt have used the hire car provided by the AMC. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found that 
esure had no records of what was discussed in the call when it referred Mrs H to the AMC. 
Because of this, she didnt think esure had shown it gave Mrs H sufficient information during 
the call to make an informed choice about using the AMC. Our investigator recommended 
esure pay Mrs H £150 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused by esure not 
giving Mrs H sufficient information to make an informed choice. 
esure disagreed with our investigator. It said its standard practice is to let customers know 
the AMC is a separate company and that if theyre unhappy with the AMC they can revert 
back to having the courtesy car provided under the policy. esure therefore didnt think it was 
fair to determine this didnt happen for Mrs H just because the call recording wasnt 
available. esure also said Mrs H signed a separate agreement with the AMC and by 
upholding this complaint it would disregard the agreement Mrs H signed with the AMC.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When esure referred Mrs H to the AMC it was obliged to provide Mrs H with information that 
was clear, fair and not misleading, in line with its obligations under Principle 7 of the FCA 
Handbook: Communications with clients (see PRIN 2.1R The Principles) and ICOBS 2.2.2R 
(Clear, fair and not misleading rule). In the circumstances of this case, this means that when 
Mrs H contacted esure to tell it about her non-fault claim for damage to her car, esure ought 
to have provided her with clear information about her options, so she could decide how best 
to proceed. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision about the
merits of the complaint on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I consider is
most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
In this case esure has said what its call handlers do as standard practice. Its explained this 
means explaining that the AMC is an independent company and that if a customer is 
unhappy with the AMC, they can revert back to esure and obtain a courtesy car under the 
policy. While I agree its good to make these things clear, Im not satisfied it means that is 
what happened here, just because it is standard practice. 
While its not clear if esure met its standard practice when referring Mrs H to the AMC. When 
considering all the evidence Im not persuaded esure has shown it most likely gave Mrs H 
clear, fair and not misleading information about using the AMC, to enable her to make an 
informed choice. I say this because Mrs H has said she was recommended to use the AMC 
and that it wasnt clear that she could be liable for the hire car costs. She also said she 
thought esure was covering them and said that if esure had told her there was a risk of being 
liable for these costs, she wouldnt have signed up with the AMC. So while esure may have 
made it clear the AMC was a separate company, Im not satisfied this means esure gave 
Mrs H sufficient information to make an informed choice as she wasnt aware she could be 
liable for the hire car costs. 
Ive therefore looked at the impact the poor referral has had on Mrs H. This includes 
considering that Mrs H entered into an agreement with the AMC. However even if the 
agreement was clearly explained to Mrs H by the AMC, Im not satisfied that removes all 
responsibility from esure to meet its requirements. 
As Im not persuaded esure has shown it most likely gave Mrs H the information she needed 
to make an informed choice, Im satisfied this has caused her unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. I say this because Mrs H said she only became aware she could be liable for 
the hire car costs when the AMC contacted her about recovering them. And while esure said 
she wont be liable for them if she cooperates, this doesnt change the fact Mrs H has 
suffered the additional distress and inconvenience of having to cooperate with the AMC. Im 
also satisfied by Mrs Hs testimony that she wouldnt have used the AMC if shed known this, 
therefore the fair and reasonable outcome is for esure to compensate her for this. Im 
satisfied £150 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by esure not giving Mrs H sufficient information to make an informed choice on 
whether to be referred to the AMC. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
esure Insurance Limited to pay Mrs H £150 for distress and inconvenience. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman