DRN-1689224
The complaint
Mr L and Ms R have complained that Countrywide Assured Plc mis-sold them an income 
protection insurance policy.
What happened
In 2001, while in the process of seeking a mortgage, Mr L and Ms R met with a Countrywide 
adviser and agreed to take out an insurance package which included income protection 
insurance for each of them.
In 2019, Mr L and Ms R complained to Countrywide that the income protection insurance 
had been mis-sold. They believed it was payment protection insurance (PPI) and said they 
hadnt wanted or needed the cover. They asked for a refund of all premiums paid, plus 
interest.
Countrywide didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that the income protection insurance 
wasnt a PPI policy. It was satisfied that the adviser had recommended suitable cover for 
Mr L and Ms R. It was also satisfied that they had been given sufficient information about the 
nature of the cover and had been made aware they were under no obligation to accept the 
advisers recommendation.
Mr L and Ms R were unhappy at Countrywides response. They referred their complaint to 
us. They said they were told by the adviser that they couldnt obtain the mortgage unless 
they agreed to take out the insurance cover.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He did not consider 
the policy had been mis-sold and noted that Mr L and Ms R had signed a declaration stating 
that they were aware they were under no obligation to accept the advisers 
recommendations.
Mr L and Ms R did not accept the investigators findings. They said if one of them had 
become sick they could have relied on family help to pay the mortgage and they therefore 
had no need for the cover. They said that, no matter what declaration they may have signed, 
they were led to believe by the adviser that they had no choice but to take out the cover if 
they wanted to obtain the mortgage.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Countrywide has provided the results of a fact find conducted by the adviser at the time of 
sale. This recorded, among other things, Mr L and Ms Rs income, financial commitments, 
entitlements to employers sickness benefit, and existing cover.
Having garnered this information, the adviser recommended that Mr L and Ms R take out a 
package of insurance covers which included income protection insurance for each of them.
The income protection insurance would pay a regular benefit, after a deferred period of 26 
weeks, in the event that Mr L or Ms R were unable to work because of illness or injury. This 
could continue up until the end of the policy, which was due to run for 19 years in line with 
the duration of the repayment mortgage which the adviser had also recommended to them.
I should point out that this type of income protection cover is different to a PPI policy which 
will pay benefit for a short-term only, typically twelve months.
On the face of it, the recommendation to take out this cover was a suitable recommendation. 
By taking out a mortgage, Mr L and Ms R were about to enter into a long-term financial 
commitment. They didnt have any other cover in place in the event that one or other of them 
were to be medically prevented from working in the long-term. I dont consider that they 
could necessarily rely on their family to help them out for up to 19 years. The level of benefit 
was within their maximum allowable, given their income. The six month deferred period 
complemented the length of sick pay to which each of them was entitled from their employer.
Following the fact find, Mr L and Ms R signed a declaration stating, among other things, that 
they were aware they were under no obligation to accept the advisers recommendations. 
Indeed, they didnt accept his recommendations in respect of some additional cover.
Mr M and Ms R were provided with an illustration showing the policys benefits and cost. 
They were later provided with policy documents, including policy schedules, and were given 
a 14-day cooling-off period during which they could have cancelled the policy without 
penalty.
I consider that the evidence indicates the adviser recommended suitable cover for Mr L and 
Ms R and that they voluntarily accepted that recommendation. I can see no evidence, 
beyond their testimony, that they were led to believe the policy was essential for them to 
obtain their mortgage. Given that the policy, while in force, would presumably have 
responded in the event they had cause to make an eligible claim, I see no reasonable 
grounds for saying they should be awarded a refund of their premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman