DRN-3244990
The complaint
Mr Y has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc should not have provided him with an overdraft 
facility.
 What happened
Mr Y complained to Lloyds about the overdraft facility on his account, he said that he was 
struggling with gambling and payday lending and that Lloyds therefore shouldnt have 
provided him with an overdraft facility as it was clearly unaffordable to him. Lloyds didnt 
uphold the complaint, and its response looked specifically at the overdraft increases it 
agreed to provide to Mr Y in 2017. Mr Y was dissatisfied, so he referred the complaint to our 
service.
Mr Ys complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. Ultimately, the adjudicator 
thought that Lloyds should have realised that Mr Y was struggling to manage his account by 
December 2015 and so recommended that Lloyds refund the charges and interest applied to 
Mr Ys overdraft from then onwards. Lloyds didnt agree and stated that Mr Y had only 
complained about the overdraft increases in 2017 and hadnt complained about the charges 
applied to his account. Because an agreement could not be reached the complaint has bene 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when agreeing 
overdraft lending and when applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to 
set all of this out in this decision.
Mr Ys original complaint to Lloyds did refer to the specific overdraft increases in 2017, but 
he also stated that he felt any overdraft facility was unaffordable to him given his 
circumstances. So Im satisfied that Mr Ys complaint encompasses the general affordability 
of his overdraft facility over the years.
And having carefully considered everything provided, I agree with our adjudicator that Lloyds 
acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after 6 
December 2015. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr Y was at significant risk of 
financial difficulties and was unlikely to be in a position to sustainably repay what he owed 
within a reasonable period of time. 
I say this because Mr Ys statements showed evidence of gambling and repeated payday 
lending and other high cost borrowing. Mr Ys account was also showing signs of hardcore 
borrowing, it hadnt maintained a credit balance for some time. And in these circumstances, 
Lloyds ought to have realised that Mr Y was at a significant risk of being unable to repay 
what he already owed. So I think the conduct of Mr Ys account when Lloyds reviewed and 
renewed his overdraft limit in December 2015 should have given Lloyds cause for concern. 
In these circumstances, I think that Lloyds ought to have realised that continuing to allow Mr 
Y to use his overdraft in this way wasnt in his best interests, and that he was at a significant 
risk of experiencing financial difficulty. And so Lloyds should have treated him with 
forbearance rather than adding even more interest, fees and charges to his overdraft.
Mr Y ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Lloyds didnt 
treat Mr Y fairly and he lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ys complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ys current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after the overdraft renewal in December 2015 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mr Y to arrange a suitable repayment plan, Mr 
Y is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Lloyds to reach a 
suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Mr Ys credit file, Lloyds should reflect what would have been recorded had it 
started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in December 
2015. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr Y along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ys credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr Y a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ys complaint. Lloyds Bank Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman