The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) sent him promotional 
information relating to Money Transfers from his credit card but later told him his reequest 
had been declined. 
What happened
Mr M has a credit card with Halifax. In May 2019 Halifax sent Mr M details of some offers 
available on his credit card. One of the offers related to a 0% interest Money Transfer. 
On 12 June 2019 Mr M attempted to use the Money Transfer offer. When he contacted 
Halifax, Mr M was advised the Money Transfer had been declined as he didnt qualify for it. 
Mr M asked why and Halifax referred him to his credit file. Mr M later complained and Halifax 
responded on 17 June 2019. Halifax said its decision was correct and didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. Mr M responded and asked Halifax to review its decision. Halifax didnt respond 
until 4 September 2019. In its follow up complaint response, Halifax apologised for the delay 
and paid Mr M £100. But Halifax said Mr Ms request was correctly declined and didnt agree 
the decision was a mistake. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service and an investigator reviewed it. They thought 
Halifax had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr M 
asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the promotional information Halifax sent Mr M. Halifax and our investigator 
have already pointed out that the information Mr M was sent says the Money Transfer offer 
was subject to status. I appreciate that Halifax could have made it clearer that the Money 
Transfer was subject to various checks before it is approved. But, overall, Im satisfied the 
promotional information did say Money Transfers were subject to status. 
Unfortunately, Halifax says Mr Ms request was declined because it didnt meet the 
necessary criteria. Halifax says it cant give a specific reason and I wouldnt expect it to 
provide a detailed commentary on its lending criteria. Halifax has referred Mr M to his credit 
file and says it considers a range of factors when deciding whether to proceed, including 
how the credit card has been handled. Whilst I understand Halifax hasnt specifically told Mr 
M why his request wasnt successful, I think it has given a fair amount of information. 
Mr M has forwarded promotional information from other businesses and asked us to 
consider it. Ive looked at everything Mr M has sent us, and I agree there are differences in 
the information provided by different lenders. But, businesses are free to operate 
DRN-1383809independently. So whilst another business may offer services on different terms, that doesnt 
mean Halifax has made a mistake by taking the decision not to approve Mr Ms Money 
Transfer. 
Halifax paid Mr M £100 because of delays responding to his complaint. I think £100 fairly 
reflects the impact of Halifaxs delay on Mr M. As I havent found Halifax made a mistake or 
treated Mr M unfairly when it declined his Money Transfer request and Im satisfied it dealt 
with his complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman