DRN-3923208
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (C&G) 
has declined two claims he has made for the cost of veterinary treatment for his pet dog.
I previously issued a provisional decision in this case to which C&G has responded.
What happened
Mr H has insured his dog, who Ill refer to an M, with C&G since11 November 2017. During 
that time, C&G has declined two claims he has made under his policy. Ill refer to each of 
these in turn.  
 
Claim 1 (the 2020 claim)
   
On 20 November 2019, Mr H took M to the vet as she had been vomiting, was lethargic and 
wasnt eating. The vets notes record Discussed ddx gastritis, pancreatitis, CKD, liver. She 
was prescribed gastritis medication and a special diet.
On 22 February 2020 Mr H took M back to the vet. According to Ms veterinary notes, she 
was: 
still on and off being sick with some episodes of lethargynes (sic), now even some 
light brown diarrhoea, very watery. OR also 2-3 times in 2 weeks weeing herself while 
sleeping. 
Initial tests indicated everything was fine but as she was lethargic with sickness and 
diarrhoea, the vet advised an abdominal scan.
On 26 February 2020 the scan result showed no free fluid, no evidence of masses or 
changes in intestinal archuicture (sic), abdominal organs unremarkable. It was advised that 
she stick to diet food.
Mr H claimed for the cost of this treatment.
Claim 2 (the 2022 claim) 
  
On 3 February 2022, Mr H took M to the vet again. On this occasion the vets notes say:
 sore paw, front right. Looking pink, licking a lot. Confused, last few months. Licking 
sofa, anxious, not wanting to walk last few days (could be paw). Unsettled. Shivers in 
the morning after eating. 
The vet checked out Ms paw which she considered overall seems ok. She advised pain 
relief and wash.
As to the signs of confusion, she recorded:
Behaviour could be medical, anxiety or CCD. Improve mental activity for CCD. Wait 
for bloods for rest.
The tests done showed that biochemistry, haematology and electrolytes results were normal. 
She was prescribed Loxicom.
On 11 February 2022 Mr H took M back to the vet for vomiting and diarrhoea. It was thought 
that this was due to the Loxicom shed been prescribed.
Mr H claimed for the cost of both visits.
C&Gs response to the claims
C&G responded to both claims on 29 June 2022.
It rejected Mr Hs 2020 claim as it was of the opinion that the treatment being claimed for 
was connected to previous incidents of vomiting and diarrhoea with which M had presented 
in 2012 and 2014, before the inception of the policy.
C&G had noted that on 24 January 2012 Ms vet had recorded: 
upset stomach, o reports v+ last week, none since Friday, last night gassy and rumbling 
stomach, no more V+. off food slightly, otherwise well in self upset stomachs about   twice 
yearly".   
During a consultation on 20 November 2012, Mr H informed the vet that M suffered from   
diarrhoea intermittently.   
On 27 January 2014, M was seen by the vet who noted:
 
sickness and D+ on and off over   a couple of weeks, no blood in either, on and off 
appetite. ddX: gastroenteritis? parasites?   pancreatitis?"   
      
C&G referred Mr H to the terms of his policy which excludes cover for pre-existing 
conditions, defined as:
any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has 
happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before the 
Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
It also referred to the following policy term which gives C&G the right to apply an exclusion to 
a policy in respect of any pre-existing condition: 
The following exclusions apply to the whole of this Policy. We will not pay claims for   
any of the following reasons:  
  If We are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of a claim, these   
Pre-Existing Conditions will not be covered and We reserve the right add a relevant   
endorsement(s) to Your Policy in respect of these Pre-Existing Conditions.
C&G says if Mr H had disclosed Ms previous clinical signs and symptoms it wouldve 
applied the following endorsement:
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to The Digestive System with effect from 
16 November 2021.C&G says that as Mr Hs claim for vomiting and diarrhoea falls under this endorsement, his 
claim was correctly declined in accordance with the terms and conditions of his policy.
However Mr H has provided a letter from Ms vet dated 24 December 2020 which refers to 
Ms visit on 20 November 2019. This records that on that date the vet discussed Ms primary 
symptoms with Mr H which he said:
were most likely linked to one of the following possible differential diagnoses: acute 
gastritis, acute pancreatitis, chronic renal disease and chronic liver disease. 
Treatment was prescribed for acute gastritis and M improved on this treatment. The vet went 
on to say:
From the history provided therefore, it is clear that the initial condition diagnosed and 
treated on 20 November 2019, could not [be] related to any previous or pre-existing 
chronic medical condition. It was of an acute nature, most likely linked to her diet. (my 
emphasis underlined).
C&G also rejected Mr Hs 2022 claim. It was declined on the ground that it related primarily 
to a behavioural issue, and the policy states that no cover is provided for claims relating to 
behavioural issues. These are defined as a change in the normal, everyday behaviour of 
Your pet caused by a medical, mental or emotional ailment. It also states that The costs for 
any diagnosis and investigations into the cause of Behavioural Issues are also excluded.
Mr H maintains that M was not treated for a behavioural issue. He has provided a letter from 
the vet which states:
During the consultation the contemporaneous clinical notes indicate that you informed 
the veterinary surgeon that you were concerned because [M] had a sore foot and also 
that she had seemed confused at times over the last few months. The notes record 
that the veterinary surgeon considered a list of differential diagnoses for this confused 
behaviour including medical, anxiety or canine cognitive dysfunction (CCD) which 
could include a number of degenerative brain diseases. They discussed possible 
referral to a neurologist for assessment. It is my opinion that the clinical notes do not 
record a diagnosis of behavioural issues rather that [ M] was displaying abnormal 
behaviour which could be explained by several medical scenarios.(my emphasis 
underlined)
Mr H would like a refund of all the premiums he has paid since inception of his policy on the 
basis that C&G hasnt provided the cover or service that hes paid for. He says he hasnt 
received C&Gs decision within the 8 weeks he says he was promised and hasnt had any 
response to his chasing.    
As he doesnt accept C&Gs rejection of his claims, Mr H brought his complaint to this 
service. Our investigators view was that C&G should pay the 2020 claim on the ground that 
C&G didnt ask a clear question about Ms health before policy inception and therefore it 
wasnt fair to add a retrospective exclusion to the policy. She didnt consider that C&G had 
acted unreasonably in declining the 2022 claim.
C&G didnt agree with our investigator view and asked that the matter be referred to an 
ombudsman. I issued a provisional decision which C&G has largely accepted.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint in relation to the 2020 claim but not in 
relation to the 2022 claim, and Ill explain why. 
In my view Mr H didnt make any misrepresentations to C&G when applying for his policy in 
2017. C&G hasnt evidenced that Mr H was asked any questions about Ms health to which 
Mr H couldve given an incorrect or incomplete answer. In the absence of a 
misrepresentation, C&G cant rely on any of the remedies provided by the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) where a qualifying 
misrepresentation has been made, one of which is that a retrospective exclusion or 
endorsement can be applied to the policy.
But I do consider that C&G can introduce a retrospective endorsement by virtue of the policy 
term which states:
The following exclusions apply to the whole of this Policy. We will not pay claims for   
any of the following reasons:  
  If We are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of a claim, these   
Pre-Existing Conditions will not be covered and We reserve the right add a relevant   
endorsement(s) to Your Policy in respect of these Pre-Existing Conditions.
But C&G does have to provide evidence of the existence of a pre-existing condition, in this 
case that M had an undiagnosed condition that had shown clinical signs or symptoms prior 
to the inception of the policy on 16 November 2017 or within the following 14 days.
My view is that the incidents of vomiting and diarrhoea that M had in 2012 and 2014 were 
isolated incidents some years before inception of the policy and not clinical signs and 
symptoms of the condition with which M presented in 2019. I also place reliance upon the 
professional opinion expressed by Ms vet, quoted above, that there was no connection 
between the acute gastritis for which M was treated in November 2019 and any previous or 
pre-existing chronic medical condition.
My view is therefore that C&G did not act fairly in adding a retrospective exclusion. I also 
observe that the exclusion was only stated to take effect from 16 November 2021. Mr Hs 
claim was made in 2020. 
Im therefore going to require C&G to settle Mr Hs 2020 claim subject to the other terms and 
conditions of his policy.
Turning to the 2022 claim, Im of the view that C&G has acted reasonably in declining this 
claim to the extent that it relates to behavioural issues. The greater part of the claim would 
appear to relate to investigation of Ms confusion. I have noted that Ms vets opinion is that:
 the clinical notes do not record a diagnosis of behavioural issues rather that M was 
displaying abnormal behaviour which could be explained by several medical scenarios.
However I consider that what the vet described as abnormal behaviour is in line with the 
policy definition of a behavioural issue, namely a change in the normal, everyday behaviour 
of Your pet caused by a medical, mental or emotional ailment. 
I therefore consider that C&G has not acted unreasonably in declining this claim on the basis 
that the policy states that The costs for any diagnosis and investigations into the cause of 
Behavioural Issues are also excluded.I consider that C&G should pay any costs associated with Ms sore paw and for the 
treatment of vomiting/diarrhoea. 
As Mr H has received benefits under this policy, I dont consider that it is appropriate for me to 
require C&G to provide a refund of premiums. However I do consider that the length of the 
delay in C&Gs response to his 2020 claim was unacceptable. As I am finding that this claim 
shouldve been paid, I consider that compensation of £150 for this delay would be appropriate. 
In response to my provisional decision, C&G has said it accepts responsibility for the 2020 
claim and has agreed to settle it and has also agreed to cover the cost of treating Ms sore 
paw claimed for in 2022. For the avoidance of doubt as to what I require C&G to do, Im 
issuing a final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Hs claim for Ms treatment in November 
2019 and February 2020 and I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) 
Limited to settle his claim subject to the other terms and conditions of his policy.
I also require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to settle Mr Hs 
claim in 2022 to the extent only that it relates to the cost of treating Ms sore paw and 
vomiting/diarrhoea, and subject to the other terms and conditions of his policy.
I also require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Mr H interest 
on any sum paid to him at the simple rate of 8% from the dates of his claims until payment is 
made to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman