DRN-4145208
The complaint
Miss H complains that she couldnt access her credit card online  provided by HSBC UK 
Bank Plc trading as first direct (first direct).
What happened
In October 2022, Miss H found that she couldnt view her credit card activity online or via first 
directs app. So, she had to rely on paper statements.
Miss H complained. She said this inconvenienced her in a big way  it meant she couldnt 
see how much needed to be paid each month. She wanted to set up a direct debit for 
monthly payments but couldnt  which meant she was now paying late fees. She had to 
spend hours on the phone to first direct to try to get things sorted out  and as of May 2023, 
she still couldnt see her credit card statements online.
In January 2023, first direct said there was a technical issue which caused the problem. 
They said a solution would be put in place as quickly as possible. First direct arranged to 
send out paper statements. After Miss H contacted them again (in February 2023) to say 
nothing had been fixed - first direct apologised again. 
Miss H brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked at what had happened. As at 
March 2023, the problem still wasnt fixed and during our investigation, first direct made an 
offer of compensation of £250 in view of the inconvenience Miss H was undergoing.
Our investigator said the offer was fair  he said first direct had acknowledged the issues 
Miss H was facing and was trying to resolve matters. 
Miss H didnt accept the offer. She said she was getting late fees on the credit card. And she 
doesnt know when payments are needed and couldnt set up a direct debit for payments to 
be collected. She asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman, and so it has 
come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how frustrating this must be for Miss H. Most customers nowadays prefer to 
manage their accounts online or through mobile banking  and because of a technical issue, 
she hasnt been able to do that.
To be fair to first direct, theyve apologised and said they are trying to fix the problem  
which is particular to Miss Hs credit card account. And they are sending paper statements in 
the mail instead. I accept that isnt the preferred solution for Miss H  but it should enable 
her to manage her account.
I say that as after her first direct statement arrives, she has a period to see her activity, 
balance, amount due and date for payment  and decide how much to pay, and to send 
money to the account. The period is 25 days from the date of the statement  which is 
reasonable.
Miss H says she cant set up a direct debit for minimum monthly payments to be made  but 
equally, she could do this using telephone banking. So again, while thats not her preferred 
way of doing it, there is a solution she can use.
Miss H has been inconvenienced, but first direct have apologised and provided alternative 
ways for Miss H to manage her account.
So  this comes down to how much is a fair award of compensation here. First direct offered 
£250 and our investigator agreed that was reasonable  as do I. Its at the top end of what 
we would normally see for what happened. A link to how we decide awards is:
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenience 
Putting things right
First direct should pay £250 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct must:
Pay compensation of £250 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman