DRN-3299694
The complaint
Mr T and the estate of Mrs T complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the 
premiums paid for a single trip travel insurance policy. 
For ease of reading Im going to refer to Mrs and Mr T as the complainants within this 
decision. 
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 23 October 2021  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained why I didnt think Great Lakes had acted reasonably 
and fairly in how it deal with Mrs and Mr Ts complaint. And I outlined the reasons why I was 
minded to uphold it. I said:
What happened
Mrs and Mr T took out a single trip travel insurance policy with Great Lakes on 27 January 
2020 for a holiday which was due to take place from 29 June until 10 July 2020.
Mrs and Mr T paid a total of £128.28 including Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the 
standard level of travel insurance cover, which also cover them for a number of declared 
medical conditions. Mrs and Mr T also paid an additional premium of £91.44 (including IPT) 
for car hire excess waiver, travel disruption extension, terrorism cancellation and excess 
waiver cover.
The cost of Mrs and Mr Ts policy also included a discount of £23.70, which they received at 
the point they purchased their policy. In total, Mrs and Mr T paid £196.02 for their policy 
including IPT.
On 13 May 2020, Mrs and Mr T contacted Great Lakes to explain that they were unable 
to travel to their intended holiday destination due to the Covid-19 pandemic. They 
requested the cancellation of their policy and a refund of the premium theyd paid.
Great Lakes informed Mrs and Mr T that a full refund couldnt be provided as their 14 day 
cooling off period had expired and, under the terms of their policy, no refund was due. 
But it said they could either change the dates for their policy or receive a pro rata refund 
by way of a voucher, which would be valid for use within 36 months.
Great Lakes offered Mrs and Mr T a voucher for £21.89 which it said represented a pro-rata 
refund of the premiums theyd paid. The voucher was valid for 36 months. But Mrs and M
werent happy with the offer Great Lakes had made and they complained to our service.
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied 
in the circumstances of this case. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep 
any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also 
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because cover under the policy started on 27 January 2020 and the policy 
covered various risks during that time.
Our investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-
19. But they thought Great Lakes had made a fair offer in all the circumstances and felt 
the voucher offer was also fair and reasonable. So, they didnt recommend upholding 
this complaint. But Mrs and Mr T disagreed with our investigators view of their 
complaint. Ive therefore been asked to decide what is a fair and reasonable way of 
resolving their concerns. Finally, due to a change in Mrs and Mr Ts personal 
circumstances, Great Lakes has since agreed to offer a cash refund if they could 
provide further evidence of the deterioration in Mrs Ts health.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are 
the relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case.
The policy terms and conditions say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have 
paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make 
a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no premium 
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such 
as a bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
Ive considered everything Mrs and Mr T and Great Lakes have said about this 
complaint. And Ill explain why Im departing from the findings our investigator reached 
in their view.
Are Mrs and Mr T entitled to a full refund of the premium?
I dont think its fair and reasonable for Mrs and Mr T to receive a full refund of the 
premiums because:
Cover under Mrs and Mr Ts policy commenced immediately once it had been 
purchased, which is confirmed by the insurance validation certificate they 
received. Im satisfied Mrs and Mr T were reasonably made aware of the terms 
that applied to their policy, which are typical of the cancellation terms found in 
most travel insurance policies.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to 
offer a refund. And it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer 
had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not 
returnable.Mrs and Mr T werent just insured for the dates of travel. The price set by Great 
Lakes also covered Mrs and Mr T for cancellation cover from 27 January 2020. 
So, the premium they paid covered the risk of them having to cancel their holiday 
due to any of a number of listed events insured under the policy including, for 
example, Mrs and Mr T falling ill with a declared pre-existing medical condition.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for 
cancellation outside the cooling off period except in exceptional circumstances. 
The examples of exceptional circumstances identified in the policy are specific to 
the individual policyholder, such as bereavement or changes to their health. They 
dont extend to cancellation as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case I think Great Lakes acted fairly in 
using 13 May 2020 as the relevant policy cancellation date as thats the date 
which Mrs and Mr T first asked to cancel the policy.
Was it fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to offer a voucher?
I dont think it was unreasonable for Great Lakes to offer a voucher. However, Im satisfied 
that, in the particular circumstances of this case, its now fair and reasonable to direct a 
cash refund.
While Great Lakes wasnt obliged to refund any premium to Mrs and Mr T, it used its 
discretion to initially offer them a pro-rata credit voucher refund as an alternative to a pro- 
rata monetary refund. This voucher was valid for 36 months and our service would 
typically view this as a fair resolution to this complaint because the validity period 
provides a reasonable period within which a consumer can use it towards future travel 
insurance policies they may wish to take out.
However, I can see that Mr T told our investigator that hes unable to use the voucher due 
to a significant deterioration in Mrs Ts health as a result of the progression of one of the 
illnesses she declared when she took out her policy.
Based on the information Ive seen, it appears unlikely that Mrs and Mr T will be in a 
position to travel in the future. In the event that Mrs and Mr T provide documentary 
evidence confirming the change in Mrs Ts health Great Lakes has said its happy to 
provide a cash refund. I think thats fair.
Is the calculation of the refund fair and reasonable?
As Ive already mentioned, Mrs and Mr T were given a discount of £23.70 at the point 
of sale. Ive seen the refund calculation formula used by Great Lakes, but I dont 
agree this leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this 
complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain.
When Great Lakes calculated the refund it paid Mrs and Mr T, this was based on it 
removing the discount they received at the end of the calculation. I say this because Great 
Lakes starting point was to add the discount onto the price Mrs and Mr T paid. It then 
subtracted the additional cover cost and divided this amount by the 166 days of cover Mrs 
and Mr T had purchased. It then multiplied that sum by the 59 days they werent on risk 
and subtracted the discount theyd received. I dont agree this leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Based on everything provided to me, in simple terms, Great Lakes should 
calculate the refund by dividing the actual price paid for the policy by the total cover length 
(in days) multiplied by days not on risk.
Should Mrs and Mr T receive a refund of the Additional Cover Options they purchased?
I can also see that when Great Lakes calculated the refund it offered Mrs and Mr T it 
didnt include any refund for the additional cover theyd purchased. I dont think that was 
fair and reasonable.
Ive already mentioned that Mrs and Mr T paid for optional travel disruption extension 
cover. This cover includes extended cancellation benefits as well as extended curtailment, 
travel delay and enforced stay benefits. But Great Lakes was no longer covering the risk 
of a claim under the optional travel disruption extension cover from 13 May 2020. So, it 
would be fair and reasonable for them to receive a pro-rata refund of the premium they 
paid for this cover.
I think this pro-rata refund should also include the premium Mrs and Mr T paid for their 
excess waiver cover. Excess waiver cover means that no excess is payable in respect of 
any claim submitted under the general cover outlined in the policy. But Great Lakes were 
no longer covering the risk of a claim and therefore the use of the excess waiver cover 
from the date the holiday was cancelled.
Ive taken into account Great Lakes reasons for not including the premiums paid for the 
additional cover options within its refund calculations. Great Lakes says it can be difficult 
to tell if any additional cover options have been used. However, Mrs and Mr T didnt 
travel on their planned holiday and theres no suggestion any claim was made under the 
additional cover options attached to their single trip insurance policy.
Great Lakes has also mentioned situations where consumers purchase additional cover 
options and subsequently cancel these if they dont need to claim  thus getting extra 
cover at no or a significantly reduced cost. Im satisfied this isnt the case here, as Mrs 
and Mr Ts holiday was cancelled due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Finally, Great Lakes has said the price of the additional cover options have been 
calculated on the assumption that the cover remains in place for the full length of the 
policy. However, the same seems to be true of the price for the basic single trip 
insurance policy, so I dont think there are any reasonable grounds for treating the 
additional cover options which Mrs and Mr T paid for any differently.
As part of our investigation Ive established that Mrs and Mr T car hire excess waiver 
cover is provided by AXA and terrorist cancellation cover is provided by Europ 
Assistance. This means a different business is responsible for their complaint about the 
refund of premiums on these their policy.
The seller of Mrs and Mr Ts policy has told us it is prepared to offer them a cash refund 
on these elements of their policy which will be calculated as follows:
Car Hire Excess Waiver  a full refund on a single trip policy
Terrorist Cancellation Cover  a pro-rata refund from the date the holiday 
was cancelled on a single trip policy.Generally, I think this offer is fair and Im unlikely to ask AXA and Europ Assistance 
to do anything more. The offer is in line with how wed usually approach complaints 
of this type.
If Mrs and Mr T wish to accept this offer, then its open for them to do so and well tell the 
seller of their policy to send the payment directly to them. However, if Mrs and Mr T dont 
wish to accept this offer then Ill need to arrange for a new complaint to be set up for them 
against AXA and Europ Assistance and an investigator will consider that part of their 
complaint separately. Id appreciate if Mrs and Mr T can let me know what they would like 
to do when responding to my provisional decision.
In my provisional decision, I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our service's last word 
on the matter.
Great Lakes responded confirming it had recalculated the premium refund in line with the 
provisional findings I had reached in my provisional decision and it provided our service with 
a detailed calculation showing how much should be refunded to Mrs and Mr T. 
When Mr T responded, he stated that he didnt think the refund offered was fair. He 
explained the reasons why he and his wife had purchased their travel insurance policy. He 
stated they were unaware theyd been insured from the date of purchasing their policy and 
that, had they known, theyd have taken insurance out to cover only the date of their holiday. 
Mr T said he and his wife hadnt received their policy documentation until May 2020. So, 
they couldnt have known about the cooling off period. 
Mr T stated he accepted the offer made of £39.55 in relation to the car hire excess waiver 
and terrorist cancellation cover and was happy for this to be provided via a cash settlement.
Finally, Mr T shared the news with our service that his wifes health had significantly 
worsened since he referred his complaint and that she had sadly died in early 2021. Our 
service had been previously unaware of this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to learn that Mrs T has passed away since this complaint was referred to 
our service. Ive seen the death certificate that Mr T has kindly provided since I drafted the 
provisional decision and Ive also had sight of Mrs Ts will. I want to thank Mr T for sharing 
such sensitive documents with me; Ive taken them into account when reconsidering the 
evidence and submissions Ive received from all parties.
Mr T stated he and his wife were unaware of the cooling off period when the policy was 
taken out. But this is an industry-wide standard practice that applies to all insurance 
policies. And, while Mrs and Mr T may not have received the policy documentation until 
May 2020, theres no requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the 
insurer to offer any refund  as I explained in my provisional decision. I also outlined that 
its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if an insurer had started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. 
Here, Great Lakes started to bear the risk from the date the policy was purchased 
irrespective of whether that was what Mrs and Mr T intended. This is in line with industry standard practice for single trip travel insurance policies. And this all means that, strictly 
speaking, Great Lakes didnt have to offer to refund any of the premium paid at all.
In his response to my provisional decision, Mr T indicated that he thought the refund 
directed was unfair. So, Ive carefully considered whether the calculation Great Lakes has 
provided our service in response to my provisional decision is fair and reasonable. 
Having done so, Im satisfied the sum proposed takes into account an appropriate pro rata 
refund of the premium Mrs and Mr T paid and also includes a pro rata refund of the travel 
disruption extension and excess waiver cover they purchased as additional cover options. 
I say this because the refund is calculated from the date the policy was cancelled until the 
date the holiday was due to end  it acknowledges the 59 days of unused cover. This 
amount comes to £53.33, which Great Lakes should refund.
As Ive set out above, Mr T accepted the refund offer of £39.55 in relation to the car hire 
excess waiver and terrorist cancellation cover. Im satisfied this amount has been correctly 
calculated and Im therefore not going to comment further about how this complaint should 
be resolved insofar as it relates to these additional cover options. This refund should be 
by way a cash settlement.
Turning now to the issue of how Great Lakes should refund the £53.33 its offered to pay, I 
think this should be by cash refund given that Mrs T has now sadly died. I know that Great 
Lakes asked to see a copy of the death certificate, which I can see upset Mr T greatly. I 
can understand why Great Lakes would wish to see such a document. But I also 
recognise why this would have caused further distress to Mr T. As I mentioned above, Ive 
seen a copy of the original certificate. So, Im satisfied that I can fairly and reasonably 
direct Great Lakes to issue a cash refund in the circumstances.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, my final decision is that Great Lakes should pay Mr T £53.33 by 
way of cash refund. It should also arrange for a cash payment to be made in the sum of 
£39.55 to cover the refund due for the car hire excess waiver and terrorist cancellation cover 
additional cover options Mrs and Mr T purchased when they took out their policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To resolve the complaint that Mr T 
and the estate of Mrs T brought to our service, Great Lakes Insurance SE should put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and the 
estate of Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman