DRN-3204735
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt deal with unauthorised direct debit payments 
from his account.
What happened
Mr M says he noticed weekly direct debit payments each for around £61 (sterling equivalent) 
to a credit union had started on 10 August 2020. He contacted Lloyds to dispute these. A 
further payment was made after he had done so, and he contacted the organisation involved 
and received a refund. He is unhappy at the time he spent dealing with this and that he felt 
he had to move all the money from his account and so cancel a cheque.
Lloyds said that it agreed with his complaint. It apologised for not getting back to Mr M 
sooner and not providing a better service. It offered to pay him £150 for his inconvenience 
and £60 for his call costs. It recognised he had to call in many times.
Our investigator said that she didnt recommend that Lloyds do more than it had offered to. 
There were 10 payments taken under this direct debit from Mr Ms account which totalled 
£618.28. Lloyds had been unable to show that the direct debit mandate was authorised by 
Mr M and all payments should have been refunded to him when he spoke to it on 9 October 
2020. He had been refunded between 13 and 19 October 2020 as he contacted the 
organisation receiving the payments himself. There was nothing to show he had spent more 
on calls than the £60 offered. The amount for his distress and inconvenience was 
reasonable taking everything into account.
Mr M didnt agree. He said that this service had sided with Lloyds and that we didnt think his 
time was important. The amount offered by Lloyds was paltry. He said he had to close his 
account down and open another and transfer across his genuine standing orders and direct 
debits. Lloyds didnt seem to know why the money was being taken from his account and he 
felt as if he wasnt trusted. The amount offered isnt even close to the time, trouble, and 
heartache he has felt. The organisation that took the payments had contacted him twice to 
make sure things were resolved which is what he would have expected from Lloyds. He said 
if he doesnt get adequate compensation he intends to go to the small claims court.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 11 November 2021. I set out below what I said.
I emphasised that we arent the regulator. We dont make punitive awards and we publish 
guidance about compensation for distress and inconvenience. We also dont tend to make 
awards for units of time spent and where we do this would be at modest rates.
It isnt in dispute here that Mr M was the victim of fraud and that unauthorised direct debit 
payments were taken from his account. I needed to bear in mind that whoever set up that 
direct debit is responsible for a considerable degree of stress and inconvenience for Mr M. 
Here I am looking at what Lloyds did.
I noted that Mr M first contacted Lloyds on 8 October 2020 and didnt receive a call back. He 
further contacted Lloyds on 9 October 2020. It appears Lloyds was looking to deal with this 
case under the direct debit indemnity scheme. But here the issue was that Mr M said he 
didnt authorise the direct debits. The information from Lloyds is that these were SEPA 
(Single European Payment Area) payments made in foreign currency. And I understood that 
as a minimum all payments within eight weeks of the claim should have been refunded 
immediately. Given there didnt seem to be a mandate authorised by Mr M I agreed with our 
investigator that all amounts should have been refunded immediately. I was unclear what 
action Lloyds took on 9 October 2020 to protect Mr Ms account because there was a further 
direct debit taken on 12 October 2020. 
Mr M felt he then needed to take matters into his own hands by contacting the originator who 
arranged a quick refund. He also says he went to a branch to transfer all the money from his 
account and cancel the overdraft fearing further fraud. And he has more recently said that he 
has changed his account details.
Lloyds doesnt dispute the amount of time Mr M spent on this and the calls he made. And 
that it didnt provide a good service. I thought that the payment offered takes into account an 
element of the inconvenience to Mr M but not the full impact and his clear distress at what he 
saw to be the continued fraud on his account as more funds were taken. He had a 
considerable amount at stake in his account at the time. And so, I said I intended to increase 
the amount of compensation to reflect this from £150 to £250. And with the call costs of £60 
the total amount is £310. I appreciated he likely wants more, but in my view the amount was 
appropriate for what happened. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds said it accepted my assessment and would pay the higher compensation.
Mr M said he felt he had no option but to accept the assessment. He said he didnt agree 
and that he had been worn down by the system and badly treated.
Im sorry to hear that Mr M feels this way. I looked at his complaint independently and have 
considered again all the points hes made about what happened. I did increase the amount 
of compensation to reflect my assessment. And Im afraid I dont now see a basis to increase 
it further as Mr M would clearly like. My reasons for this compensation remain as I set out in 
my provisional decision.
If Mr M doesnt accept my decision he remains free to pursue this in court as hes said he 
might subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr M £310 as it has now agreed to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman