DRN-3778977
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Zurich Insurance PLC declined her claim on an insurance policy she is 
a beneficiary of. 
What happened
Mrs T owns a flat in a block that is covered by an insurance policy underwritten by Zurich. In 
June 2021 there was a gas leak in the foyer of the building. The building manager called 
Zurich to ask if it was ok to go ahead and instruct a contractor to find and fix the leak. Zurich 
agreed and said the claim would be passed to a handler to review cover.
The leak was subsequently found and the piping was rerouted outside of the property to fix 
the problem. Mrs T paid for this work and contacted Zurich to claim back the money.
However Zurich declined the claim. It said that the damage was most likely due to wear and 
tear which was excluded under the policy. It also said that a claim could only be made if 
there was resultant damage as the policy didnt cover maintenance of pipes.
Mrs T wasnt happy with this. She said it was highly unlikely the damage was due to wear 
and tear as the pipes werent old. And she said there had been work going on in one of the 
flats and it was more likely that the impact of the workman dropping heavy materials would 
have caused accidental damage which is covered under the policy.
She made a complaint but Zurich didnt uphold it. So she brought it to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that as there had been 
no damage to the building, the policy didnt offer cover for the repairs. 
Mrs T didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zurich has said that the claim isnt covered because the damage is most likely due to wear 
and tear. Its also said that a claim would only be covered if there was resultant damage, of 
which there is none.
Insurance policies provide cover for damage to areas of a building, due to certain identified 
events  these are called insured perils. When a claim is made, its first for the insured to 
show that there has been an insured peril covered under the policy.
Ive looked at the policy for the building. It states as follows:
In the result of the Property insured being lost, destroyed or damaged by any of the covers 
insured hereby during the period of insurance the insurers will pay to the insured the value of 
the property at the time of its loss or destruction 
Here, while there was a gas leak that needed to be fixed, the issue didnt result in any 
damage to the property. Instead the pipes needed to be rerouted in order to rectify the issue. 
So in this circumstance Ive been unable to see that the property insured was lost destroyed 
or damaged as required in order for indemnity to apply. And therefore think Zurich has acted 
fairly by saying the claim would only be covered if there were damage to the property.
Ive also looked at other sections of the policy that Zurich has referred to in its repudiation. In 
the list of insured perils that are covered the policy states:
All other accidental damage excluding:
b) DAMAGE or CONSEQUENTIAL LOSS caused by or consisting of:
i) inherent vice, latent defect, gradual deterioration, wear and tear, its own faulty or defective 
design materials 
As no evidence has been provided to show the probable cause of the leak, it isnt 
unreasonable for Zurich to conclude that its happened due to the gradual deterioration of 
the pipes. And therefore that cover wouldnt be provided. 
Mrs T has said that there has been work going on at another flat in the building which had 
caused a water leak. And that heavy materials were being thrown down into the foyer. So 
she thinks that the likely cause of the gas leak was the impact of these contractors actions. 
While I understand why she has linked these two events, Mrs T hasnt provided any expert 
evidence to show that this was the cause. So I wouldnt expect Zurich to accept the claim 
based just on this speculation. As I said, the onus is on the insured to prove that there is an 
insured peril, and I dont think this has been done here so I think Zurich has acted fairly by 
not accepting the claim under the accidental damage cover.
Should Mrs T obtain an expert report that concludes the damage was likely caused by the 
builders then Id expect Zurich to consider this further.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman