The complaint
Ms Bs complaint is about the handling of a claim under her mobile phone insurance policy 
with Aviva Insurance Company Limited. 
What happened
Ms B made a claim under her policy in August 2019, as hers was stolen or lost from her bag. 
Aviva accepted the claim and sent Ms B a replacement the next day. The replacement 
phone was a refurbished model, rather than a brand new phone. After a few days, the 
replacement became faulty and Ms B contacted Aviva. It agreed to provide another 
replacement but Ms B was unhappy that this would also be a refurbished phone. 
Ms B asked for a brand new phone.  She also said the initial claim process involved a long 
and difficult telephone call, which was difficult for her due to mental health issues and 
disabilities.  She was asked to take the phone into a shop to be examined, which she did. 
Aviva said it could arrange for her phone to be exchanged in store based on the video 
evidence Ms B had of the fault. It confirmed the phone was faulty but she was then asked to 
go to a different shop, which was not possible for her.
Ms B was not happy that the phone would be replaced with another refurbished phone and 
so refused the replacement. Aviva had said if the replacement became faulty, it would 
consider a brand new replacement but Ms B refused to accept the replacement. 
Aviva says the policy terms make clear that it can provide a refurbished phone as a 
replacement. Its phones come with a guarantee and have all been checked. It says it has 
acted in line with the policy terms. Aviva says when Ms B first reported the claim it was not 
clear the phone had been lost without a SIM in it. So I understand the claim process had to 
be cancelled and started again, which meant the call took longer than normally would be the 
case. However, Aviva accepts that during the initial claim call Ms B was spoken to 
inappropriately at points. Aviva also apologised for the fact the replacement became faulty. It 
offered Ms B £60 compensation (being the excess payment she had made) for this. 
Ms B says she has now bought herself a new phone for £750, as she could not be without a 
phone. She incurred expenses going to the branch for it to examine the phone and 
numerous phone calls she had to make and has been left with a faulty phone, having paid 
for insurance cover throughout. Ms B has also asked for compensation for this.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he was satisfied Aviva had acted fairly. 
Ms B doesnt accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
Ms B also complained that the policy was mis-sold to her, as she was not told at the outset 
that claims would be settled using refurbished phones. As Aviva didnt sell the policy to      
Ms B, I cant deal with that in this decision. That complaint will be dealt with separately. 
DRN-1512682What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Bs policy provides cover for a replacement phone in the event of loss of theft of the 
insured phone. Her claim was accepted on this basis. However, the policy also says: 
What we cover:  
The replacement phones we provide are refurbished models with a  warranty  The 
warranty will match either the period of time you had left on your original phones 
manufacturers warranty or 90 days, whichever is greater. 
It is generally for insurers to decide what cover they are prepared to provide in exchange for 
the policy premium. This policy, like most other mobile phone insurance policies Im aware 
of, provides that Aviva may provide refurbished phones as replacements. We do not 
consider this to be inherently unfair, as it would be a like-for-like replacement. And provided 
the policy terms are sufficiently clear about this, would not require Aviva to settle claims 
differently. 
The relevant section of Ms Bs policy, as cited above, is sufficiently clear about the way 
Aviva will settle a claim. I am not therefore persuaded that it needs to provide Ms B with a 
brand new phone. Aviva also told Ms B it would provide a brand new replacement, if the 
second replacement developed a fault within the first 28 days. I think this was a reasonable 
offer. 
Ms B has said she has replaced the phone now already and so may not now wish to have 
the replacement. If so, Aviva should offer a cash settlement instead. This would be the value 
of the refurbished phone that it was offering and would not need to be the cost of a brand 
new phone. Aviva would also be entitled to ask Ms B to return the first replacement phone 
before this could be paid or a second replacement provided. Ms B and Aviva will have to 
communicate to agree whichever option Ms B would rather take and how this can be 
arranged.  
With regard to the handling of the claim, it appears that Aviva spoke to Ms B and the store, 
while she was still in there. Ms B had apparently been told to go to another branch as there 
was no insurance agent in the store she was in at the time. However, Avivas notes say that 
if the fault is verified by the store (including from a video Ms B said shed taken of it) Ms B 
could leave her phone at the store and a replacement would be provided to her by the next 
day. As Ms B was unhappy that the replacement would also be refurbished, she declined to 
do this. 
In my opinion, Aviva dealt with this reasonably and I do not consider that it needed to do 
anything else at that stage. 
The initial claim call did apparently take longer than usual because of a misunderstanding 
about the usage of the phone. The claims-handler was dealing with it as theft of Ms Bs main 
phone but Ms B confirmed it was a spare phone and had not had a SIM card in it when it 
was stolen. The claim details had to then be started again. I can understand this would have 
been frustrating. The claims-handler also spoke inappropriately at times. Whilst this call 
could have gone better than it did, I do not consider that this warrants any additional 
compensation. Avivas frank acceptance of what went wrong and apology is sufficient. I consider the £60 compensation already offered by Aviva to be reasonable to reflect what 
has gone wrong here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint, as Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer that is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. If the compensation (£60) has not yet been paid 
and Ms B wishes to accept it, she should confirm her acceptance of this decision. And if Ms 
B wants to proceed with the claim, she will have to discuss with Aviva the options of how this 
can now be settled as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman