DRN-2814617
The complaint
Mr S complains that information belonging to a family member was incorrectly recorded on 
his credit file by Experian Limited. Mr S says that, because of the mistake, he paid higher 
interest rates and was declined for a mortgage. 
What happened
In November 2019 Mr S applied for a mortgage in joint names with his partner. The 
application was declined because of the credit score. 
Mr S checked his credit file and found information on it from his brother, who shared the 
same address and first initial. Mr S has explained that the incorrect information recorded 
included a county court judgement and accounts that were held with debt management 
companies. 
Mr S complained to Experian and it took steps to correct the report. But during the process, 
credit records with Mr S mothers details also appeared. 
Mr S complained to Experian and said hed been charged higher interest rates on credit he 
took out whilst his brothers information was reported on his credit file. Mr S also said hed 
lost a £300 legal fee paid in anticipation of a house purchase that didnt go through when his 
mortgage was declined. 
Experian upheld Mr S complaint and apologised for the incorrect information being reported. 
Experian refunded £29.98 of subscription fees and paid Mr S £250 to apologise. Mr S 
referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Experian had dealt with Mr S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take any other steps. Mr S 
asked to appeal and pointed out other information from a utility supplier and mobile phone 
provider had subsequently been removed by Experian from Mr S credit file. As Mr S asked 
to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree that information the belonged to Mr S brother appeared on his credit file. 
Experian has said the link was caused because Mr S and his brother share initials and their 
addresses were the same. But its clear Mr S did have incorrect information, including 
adverse credit, recorded on his credit file as a result. Experian says it took steps to correct 
Mr S credit file when the issue was highlighted in November 2019 and went on to uphold his 
complaint. I need to decide how to fairly resolve the issues raised. 
In response to the investigator, Mr S representative pointed out Experian had taken further 
steps to amend his credit file and deleted a utility providers entry and mobile phone 
suppliers default. Experian has explained the utility providers entry showed on Mr S credit 
file because it was recorded using only the first initial, surname and address. All those 
details matched Mr S, so the entry appeared on his credit file. Experian contacted the utility 
supplier which confirmed the account could be removed from Mr S credit file. 
Experian also said the mobile phone providers default was correctly recorded on Mr S 
credit file. Ive looked at this entry and its not one that was impacted by Mr S brothers 
details. The entry was in Mr S name, including his date of birth. Experian has confirmed the 
entry was deleted after Mr S complained and it was raised with the reporting business. The 
mobile phone provider confirmed the entry could be deleted, which is what Experian went on 
to do. But Experian has confirmed until the reporting business gave its permission for the 
entry to be deleted there were no grounds to remove it from Mr S credit file. 
Whilst I can see both the above accounts were removed from Mr S credit file, I havent 
found they were incorrectly recorded by Experian due to an error. 
Ive seen an updated copy of Mr S credit file and it no longer contains his brothers 
information. So it does appear the information recorded is now correct. Mr S has told us he 
was charged a higher rate of interest and declined for a mortgage because of the information 
on his credit file. I dont doubt that the information recorded wouldve been considered by the 
lenders involved. But, Experian has pointed out there were items that some lenders would 
take into account showing on Mr S credit file that were unrelated to his brother. Experian 
has highlighted missed payments, the mobile phone providers default (that was reported at 
this time) and a high utilisation of available credit. Experian has also advised theres no 
record of the mortgage lender Mr S says declined his application using its service to check 
Mr S credit file. 
Ive looked at Mr S credit file and can see there were arrears recorded on some entries. Mr 
S was using a reasonable level of available credit and I agree thats something businesses 
may consider when looking at applications. Whilst I agree Mr S did have details from his 
brothers credit file showing, I can see other factors that lenders could take into considering 
when considering applications. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I havent been persuaded 
that he was charged more or declined solely as a result of his brothers information 
appearing on his credit file. 
Mr S has asked for legal fees he paid to be refunded. Im not persuaded it would be fair to 
tell Experian to refund Mr S legal fees. I think its reasonable to note that the legal fees were 
paid at the end of November 2019, after the issues had been raised with Experian. Mr S 
credit file was updated on 22 November 2019 and it appears the mortgage application 
stopped around a month later. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but as I havent found that his 
mortgage application was declined solely on the basis of his brothers data, Im not telling 
Experian to refund the legal fees he paid. 
I understand my decision will likely disappoint Mr S. But for the reasons Ive given above, Im 
satisfied Experian dealt with Mr S complaint fairly. In my view, the £250 it paid Mr S fairly 
reflects the impact of its errors on him and the information incorrectly recorded on his credit 
file. As a result, Im not telling it to increase the offer or take any further action. I understand 
the £250 element of the settlement was sent to Mr S as a cheque. If he didnt cash it and Mr 
S wishes to accept, hes welcome to ask our investigator to contact Experian and request a 
replacement. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Experian Limited has already made 
an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman