DRN-3051012
The complaint
Miss E complains about the settlement Advantage Insurance Company Limited paid her 
following a claim on her motor insurance policy. She wants it to increase its offer.
What happened
Miss Es car was declared a total loss following an accident. Advantage offered Miss E the 
cars market value, which it said was £5,180, less her £200 policy excess. And it also 
deducted £310 for pre-existing damage. Miss E was unhappy as she thought her car had 
been undervalued and she thought it may have been further damaged when it was moved 
following the accident.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Advantages valuation of the car was made correctly following our approach. And she 
thought Advantage had reasonably relied on an engineers assessment of pre-existing 
damage and deducted less than half the estimated repair costs. So she thought Advantage 
didnt need to increase its offer. 
Miss E replied that she couldnt replace her car with Advantages offer. She thought this was 
unfair as someone had crashed into her car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss E wants a fair settlement for the loss of her car. I can also 
understand that she feels its unfair as the accident wasnt her fault and yet she has lost her 
car. I sympathise with her situation, but I can see that Miss Es policy provides for her cars 
market value in the case of its total loss. 
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought Advantages valuation of Miss Es car was fair and reasonable. So 
Ive checked how she came to this conclusion. 
I can see that she checked the valuations that Advantage had found for Miss Es car. These 
were for the correct make, model, age, mileage, and condition of the car at the date of its 
loss. 
Advantage had offered Miss E the highest of the valuations it found. We would normally 
expect an insurer to offer a settlement within the range of the valuations. So I think 
Advantages valuation was fair and reasonable and its offer was fair to Miss E. 
Miss E provided ads for similar cars to her own that were advertised at higher prices. But we 
dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and 
arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide 
evidence of likely retail selling prices. And, as I think Advantage correctly relied on the trade 
guides to make its valuation, I cant say it did anything wrong or that it needs to increase its 
offer. 
Miss E was unhappy that Advantage then deducted £310 from this settlement. We think its 
fair and reasonable for deductions to be made for pre-existing damage that may affect the 
cars market value. And we think its fair for an insurer to deduct half the estimated repair 
cost for pre-existing damage in the case of total loss. 
The inspecting engineer noted the following damage to the car that was unrelated to the 
accident:
Soiled interior, damage to right rear quarter panel, scuffs to right rear and both left side 
doors.
Miss E said that the scuffs werent pre-existing. But I cant see any expert evidence to 
challenge the inspecting engineers assessment. The amount that was deducted for repairs 
was less than half of the repairs estimate, and I cant see that this included any 
consideration of the soiled interior. So I think Advantages deduction for the pre-existing 
damage was fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman