DRN-3857123
The complaint
Mr Os unhappy with Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltds (CGICL) 
decision to decline his claim made on a pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Os annual policy for his pet dog started in March 2022. He contacted CGICL to make a 
claim for vets fees in July 2022 after his dog fell ill and needed treatment.
CGICL considered the claim but told him it wasnt prepared to pay it on the grounds that it 
felt the illness was pre-existing in the last 24 months before the policy started. CGICL 
explained that the policy didnt pay out for costs resulting from pre-existing medical 
conditions (PEMCs) that were present in the last 24 months before the policy start date.
Unhappy with CGICLs decision, because he didnt believe the illness was pre-existing, Mr O 
brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt 
recommend that it should be upheld.
When Mr O said he didnt agree with the investigators findings, the complaint was passed to 
me to consider afresh. In summary, he said the policy wording applied more to adult dogs 
whereas his pet was a puppy. Because they were a puppy until after the claim had been 
made, tests couldnt be carried out meaning the vets couldnt determine whether the issues 
Mr Os pet had before the policy started were also due to allergies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its important to start by explaining what the relevant policy terms and conditions say. 
They explain that, subject to certain exclusions, CGICL will pay the cost of vets fees for the 
treatment of accidents and illness. Those exclusions include costs resulting from pre-
existing conditions.
The term Pre-existing conditions is defined in the policy as:
Any injury, illness or behavioural disorder that your pet had symptoms of, received 
treatment, medication or advice for in the last 24 months before your policy start 
date
 
Illness is defined as any sickness, disease, illnesses or any changes to your pets normal 
everyday health
Condition means any illness or injury, or any signs, including clinical signs, of an illness or 
injury impacting your pet.
CGICL says the illness Mr O claimed for in July 2022  relating to a skin problem  first 
arose in November 2021. It says, for example, the vets clinical notes for November 2021 
show Mr Os dog had been chewing their back legs.
Further entries in the vets notes throughout December 2021 showed Mr O had reported his 
dog still had an itch especially around the ears. There was no sign of infection or mites. 
Medication had helped with the itching, but it had returned once the course of treatment 
recommended by the vet had ended. The vet noted theyd discussed possible allergies with 
Mr O and that, when his dog had turned a year old, they could then trial anti-inflammatory 
medicine.
Regarding the clinical notes after the start of the policy and from the time of the claim, they 
confirm Mr O was advised to keep an allergy diary. Mr Os dog was noted as having 
allergies with both ears now becoming infected/inflamed. Scratching had started on the belly 
and neck. The vet recorded they Highly suspect allergies and that Mr O would arrange an 
allergy test when his dog turned a year old. CGICL received the claim around a week after 
the last entry Ive summarised.
On the above grounds, CGICL says the costs claimed for in July 2022 arose from a PEMC. 
Where an insurer declines a claim based on a policy exclusion, as in this case, wed typically 
expect it to demonstrate that the exclusion applies on the balance of the available evidence.
In the circumstances, I believe that its fair for CGICL to rely on the exclusion on this 
occasion. I say that because, for example, the treating vet suspected the presence of 
allergies following the visits before the start of the policy and repeated that opinion regarding 
the treatment given after the start of the policy.
Ive thought about Mr Os point that allergies hadnt formally been diagnosed by the vet as 
his dog wasnt a year old by then and couldnt have the necessary allergy tests. But in the 
vets clinical opinion, his dog was noted as having allergies and that allergies were highly 
suspected to be the cause of the problem. I realise that in the absence of tests it was difficult 
for the vet to give a conclusive view on the matter, but I believe its sufficient that they 
nevertheless came to that conclusion based on their knowledge, experience and multiple 
examinations of Mr Os dog. I believe Mr Os treating vet was well-placed to offer such an 
opinion in the circumstances and that theres very little evidence to cast doubt on it.
Mr O asks how CGICL can be sure his dog wasnt suffering from fleas, bacterial or fungal 
infection or insect bites. But all those potential causes had seemingly been ruled out by the 
vet based on their findings. 
Its worth remembering that the policy terms dont require that the conditions be formally 
diagnosed. In-keeping with many pet insurance policies, Mr Os policy merely requires that 
there were related symptoms and so on. On carefully reviewing the medical evidence, and in 
the absence of any suggestion of, for example, a new condition having arisen after the start 
of the policy and which was unrelated to the first, I believe it was fair that CIGCL drew the 
conclusions that it did.  
Taking everything into account, Im persuaded on balance that the issues Mr Os pet 
experienced in the 24 months before the start of the policy were related to the issues giving 
rise to the claim in July 2022. It follows that I consider it was fair for CGICL to rely on the 
exclusion for PEMCs to decline Mr Os claim on this occasion.My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman