DRN-1388156
The complaint
Mr R complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as Churchill Insurance policies 
have unfairly declined his claim for legal expenses insurance. 
What happened
Mr R holds a legal expenses insurance policy with UKI, which he took out on 24 June 2013 
and covers him, amongst other things, for contractual disputes. 
Mr R purchased the freehold title of his property from the Council in 1985, of which the terms 
of the agreement required him to pay annual service charges. In 2010 the Council 
transferred its housing stock to a housing association, who took over the administration of 
the service charges and service charge deeds. 
Mr R says that he was made aware of changes to the signing off of the Actuals in November 
2013, when the regional service charge manager (RSCM) explained that the 2014 certified 
Actuals would no longer be signed as required by the deed, but would be added to the 
bottom of a cover letter which would be signed instead. Mr R was unhappy with this 
arrangement as he thought it breached the 1985 service charge deed, of which clause 2 
states: 
The Councils Director of Finance or such other authorised officer shall certify in 
writing the amount of the said aggregate estate expenditure and such certificate shall 
be final and conclusive as to the amount thereof. 
He questioned the Council around this but was told by their legal department that the new 
arrangements were fully compliant with the law and nothing to worry about. 
It then wasnt until 2018 that Mr R discovered that the Council may have breached the terms 
of the deed. He says he was researching details about metre readings when he came across 
the Housing Act 1985, specifically sections 46  51, which applied to properties purchased 
from local authorities. These sections state that the annual service charges must be checked 
and certified by a qualified accountant (which must be a statutory auditor in line with part 42 
of the Companies Act 2006). 
This made Mr R doubt whether the changes made to the process of signing off the Actuals 
(and endorsed by the Council) were compliant with the law. He says that the legislation 
suggests that the Actuals can only be checked, certified and signed off by a statutory 
auditor, which the RSCM was not. 
Mr R submitted a claim under his legal expenses policy for assistance in pursuing a claim for 
breach of contract against the Council. But UKI declined the claim on the basis that the 
insured event occurred before the policys inception in June 2013. 
UKI based their decision on a freeholders meeting that Mr R attended in 2011, where they 
said queries were first raised regarding the service charges and the change of person who 
certified the accounts. UKI said that Mr R was clearly aware that it was not a qualified accountant who was signing off the accounts, and so they took this as the incident that led to 
the claim. They also said that this was a breach of the law in any event, which is not the 
same as a breach of contract.
Mr R complained because he says he was not aware there was an issue or breach of terms 
until he came across the legislation in 2018. And he says there was a breach of contract in 
2014 because the Council signed a cover letter instead of the accounts. Mr R also says he 
left the meeting in 2011 without knowing that anything was wrong, and that he could not 
possibly have known at the time that the Council had breached the terms of the deed. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She agreed that the date of incident for the 
purposes of the policy would have been the freeholders meeting in 2011, which was before 
Mr R took out the policy. So the investigator didnt think UKI had acted unfairly by declining 
the claim. Mr R disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
The policy terms and conditions of Mr Rs legal expenses insurance policy state that the 
policyholder is covered for contractual disputes, so long as the insured incident occurs after 
the policy is taken out and while it is in force. The policy defines the date of incident as 
either:
the date of the incident that has led to this claim; or
the date of the first incident, if there are a number of incidents.
Its questionable whether Mr Rs dispute even relates to a breach of contract given that his 
purpose for pursuing legal action is to have the Council comply with the relevant legislation. 
But for the sake of argument  accepting there has been a breach of clause 2 of the 1985 
service charge deed  Ive considered whether UKI have acted fairly by classifying the 2011 
freeholders meeting as the date of incident leading to the claim.
There are seemingly two key issues stemming from the Councils actions/interpretation of 
the terms of the deed. The first is in relation to the credentials of the person who they 
appointed to check, certify and sign off the Actuals (and whether they were 
authorised/qualified to do so) and the second relates to what is being signed (i.e. whether it 
is the Actuals or simply a cover letter containing the Actuals). 
Ive reviewed the minutes of the freeholders meeting in 2011. It was announced that the 
Council had authorised the RSCM of the housing association as an authorised officer to 
certify the accounts. During the meeting one of the other freeholders asked management 
how a RSCM could sign off the Actuals when it had previously been the Councils director of 
finance, and questioned the officers qualifications: 
[Meeting attendee] questioned the level that the Actuals were signed off as previously 
done by Head of Finance at [the Council] who was signing off on his professional 
status. Now have an officer of [the housing association] who we do not know the 
qualification of, no receiving the same authority of sign off [sic]. [RSCM] replied that 
there is no mention of the level at which the Actuals have to be signed off; this sign off 
has been agreed to by [the Council]. [RSCM] added she did not feel that her personal 
qualifications or history were relevant in this discussion. [Meeting attendee] argued 
that the RSCM was not an accountant and questioned the accounting checks.The matter of how the Actuals were to be signed was also raised in this meeting:
[Meeting attendee] explained that the Actuals themselves hadnt been signed. 
[RSCM] replied that they have been certified but due to the layout of the letters and 
Actuals the signature on the covering letter covers the Actual certification as part of 
the same document.
Despite the concerns that were raised, the Council did not change their decision and 
reassured everyone that such action was permitted. So Mr R says he was not in a position to 
know at this point that there was anything wrong with the Councils decision, and that it was 
only upon reading the legislation in 2018 that he discovered it was not compliant with the law 
or the 1985 deeds. But a cause of action for breach of contract exists at the moment the 
contract is breached and is not reliant on either of the contracting parties becoming aware of 
the breach. The limitation period for such a claim, for example, does not run from the date of 
the claimants knowledge, but from the date the breach occurred. 
Mr R has said that when the Council allowed the RSCM to sign off on the Actuals they had 
breached the terms of the contract (seemingly because she could not satisfy the criteria of 
an authorised officer required by clause 2 of the deed and in line with the relevant 
legislation). And he has even said himself that if the existence of the Housing Act 1985 was 
known at the point of the freeholders meeting, it would have been raised and have forced 
the Council into taking a different course of action. 
So, on that basis, Im satisfied that the 2011 meeting can reasonably be classified as the 
incident that led to Mr Rs claim. Because it was at this point that the Council took the 
decision to appoint a seemingly unauthorised/unqualified person to certify the accounts and 
also set out how they were now doing this (i.e. by signing the cover letter rather than the 
Actuals themselves)  which was in breach of the terms of the deed and the legislation. So 
Im satisfied that UKI have acted reasonably by declining Mr Rs claim on the basis that the 
incident leading to the claim occurred before he took out the cover in June 2013. 
In any event  even if the incident did occur within the period of cover and the claim had 
reasonable prospects  it seems unlikely Mr Rs claim would satisfy the remaining policy 
terms of being proportionate to pursue, as there would seemingly be no damages to be 
awarded. And an insurer cannot be expected to fund a claim that is financially 
disproportionate for them to pursue (and where the policyholder would be unlikely to fund 
such legal action themselves).
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman