DRN-3361310
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) declined Mrs Hs 
critical illness claim. 
For ease, Ill refer to all actions and comments as those of Mrs H. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had a decreasing term Life Assurance and Critical Illness policy that was 
underwritten by Aviva. It was taken out in 2004, had a term of 20 years and an initial sum 
assured of £10,000.
Mrs H contacted Aviva in July 2020. She said that in August 2010 she suffered severe chest 
pain, profuse sweating, tachycardia and nausea, and was seen in the accident and 
emergency department of her local hospital. Mrs H said that it was only when she made an 
application in 2017 to see her medical records that she became aware she had been 
diagnosed with inferior infarct at an earlier stage. Mrs H said this meant shed suffered a 
heart attack in 2010 and so she submitted a claim to Aviva. 
Aviva declined Mrs Hs claim. It said the policy definition for heart attack had to be met in full 
for a claim to be accepted. Aviva said Mrs Hs medical records show multiple episodes of 
chest pain over many years. It said she was admitted to hospital in 2010 with chest pain but 
her electrocardiogram (ECG) was normal and there was no evidence of a rise in troponins. 
Aviva said two pre-operation ECGs carried out in 2016 and 2019 noted abnormalities and a 
possible infarct, but the age of the infarct was unknown. It said its Chief Medical Officer 
(CMO) concluded that the two ECGs in 2016 and 2019 were normal. The CMO suggested 
further information, such as an echocardiogram (echo) might be helpful. Aviva said it then 
contacted Mrs H and she informed it that the cardiologist she saw privately in 2017 didnt 
confirm her diagnosis and the echo undertaken at that time was not abnormal. 
Mrs H complained to Aviva. She provided her own detailed recollections of her visit to 
hospital in 2010, including details of the medication prescribed. She said the cardiologist she 
saw privately in 2017, following receipt of her medical records, told her that the inferior 
infarct had in all probability occurred and had resulted in borderline ECGs. 
Aviva responded and said it reviewed all of Mrs Hs medical records from 2006 onwards to 
look for evidence that shed suffered a heart attack that resulted in death of heart muscle. It 
said her records show she was treated for acute coronary syndrome in 2010  a term it said 
was used to cover a wide range of cardiac symptoms  but there were no acute ST changes 
on her ECG and no diagnosis of heart attack was made. 
Aviva also said that in 2016 Mrs H had an abnormal ECG prior to having surgery and then 
an echo that concluded a borderline result. It said a further ECG in November of that year 
said everything was normal. Aviva said an ECG taken in 2019 showed normal sinus rhythm 
but mentioned an inferior infarct, but there was no indication when it occurred. Aviva said 
none of the information suggested Mrs H suffered a heart attack that met the policy 
definition. 
Mrs H was unhappy with Avivas response and so complained to this Service. Our 
Investigator did not uphold her complaint. He said he didnt doubt Mrs H suffered a cardiac 
event, but the medical evidence provided didnt show the full definition for heart attack had 
been met. He thought Aviva acted fairly when it declined the claim. Mrs H disagreed and so 
this came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first of all want to reiterate what our Investigator told Mrs H, which is that critical illness 
policies are not designed to cover each and every illness that a person might suffer from. 
The policy terms outline what medical conditions are covered by the policy, and the wording 
of the policy terms will often reflect the fact that the condition needs to be of a certain 
severity before a claim will be paid. There also needs to be evidence that the condition being 
claimed for happened during the term of the policy.
I can see that Mrs H believes that she had a heart attack in August 2010. Ive considered all 
of the medical information provided to see whether theres any evidence to suggest she had 
a heart attack that meets the policy definition at any stage while the policy was in force. 
Ive considered the terms of Mrs Hs policy. It says that for a heart attack claim to be 
successful, the following definition must be met:
Heart Attack
The death of a portion of the heart muscle, due to inadequate blood supply, that has resulted 
in all of the following evidence of acute myocardial infarction: 
typical chest pain;
new characteristic electrocardiographic changes;
the characteristic rise of cardiac enzymes, troponins or other biochemical markers;
where all of the above shows a definite acute myocardial infarction as having taken place. 
(Other acute coronary syndromes, including but not limited to angina, are not covered under 
this definition).
Im sorry to see that Mrs H has suffered from problems with her health for some years and I 
dont doubt this has caused her a great deal of worry and upset. Aviva has declined her 
claim on the basis that it said theres no evidence to suggest she suffered a heart attack that 
meets the policy definition. So Ive looked at whether it acted fairly when it said that. 
Aviva has relied on its CMOs assessment of the information in Mrs Hs medical records to 
decline her claim. I think its acted fairly when it relied solely on what the CMO said. Its 
sometimes the case that a policyholder might provide evidence from a specialist doctor, for 
instance a cardiologist, in support of their claim but Mrs H hasnt done that here. 
I note that Mrs H told Aviva, and this Service, that she saw a cardiologist privately in 2017 
and that they told her an inferior infarct had in all probability occurred. However, Mrs H 
hasnt provided any evidence from this cardiologist, just her testimony of what was said. So I 
intend to place more weight on the evidence from Avivas CMO, as they are the medical 
professional here.Ive looked first at whether Aviva acted fairly when it said there was no evidence to suggest 
Mrs H suffered a heart attack, that meets the policy definition, in 2010. From what I can see, 
theres no evidence from that time that suggests Mrs H was diagnosed as having suffered a 
heart attack. 
I say this because theres a letter dated 3 August 2010 from her local hospitals accident and 
emergency department that says Mrs H was given a diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome. 
Its my understanding that this is not a heart attack  Aviva said its a term used to cover a 
wide range of cardiac symptoms. I can also see a note on the ECG carried out on that date 
that says sinus rhythm with occasional premature ventricular complexes otherwise normal 
ECG. In addition, theres a note on Mrs Hs records from 3 August 2010 that says the doctor 
explained that tests havent shown a heart attack, that symptoms could still be due to 
oesophagus. So I cant see anything that dates from the time of Mrs Hs admission to 
hospital in August 2010 that suggests she suffered a heart attack then. 
Mrs H was concerned that she might have been placed at a disadvantage by doctors not 
carrying out tests in 2010 that would have measured troponin levels, given that its 
necessary to know if there was a rise in troponin levels in order to fulfil the policy definition. I 
cant comment on the decisions made by doctors in relation to Mrs Hs care back in 2010. 
But, for whatever reason, the decision was made not to carry out these tests. Given that in 
2010 Mrs H wasnt diagnosed with having a heart attack, there were no new characteristic 
ECG changes and doctors chose not to measure troponin levels, Im satisfied Aviva acted 
fairly when it said there was no evidence to suggest Mrs H met the policy definition for heart 
attack back in 2010. 
Mrs H didnt become aware until around 2017 that she had been diagnosed with inferior 
infarct at some earlier stage. Her medical records contain an ECG from August 2016 that 
says inferior infarct, old. The same ECG says it was abnormal, but with normal sinus 
rhythm. Theres also an ECG that was carried out in 2019 that says inferior infarct, age 
undetermined. I think its fair to say that this information suggests a cardiac event  the 
inferior infarct  happened at some stage. So Ive looked at whether Aviva acted fairly when 
it said this medical evidence from 2016 and 2019 didnt meet the policy definition for heart 
attack. 
As I said, Mrs H has to meet the policy definition in full before a claim would need to be paid. 
Its not enough that she might have suffered a cardiac event of some kind. And its not 
enough that there might have been some borderline ECG changes or abnormalities. It needs 
to be shown that Mrs H was diagnosed by an appropriate medical professional as having 
suffered from a heart attack that was severe enough that she also experienced new 
characteristic electrocardiographic changes and a characteristic rise in troponin levels. And 
Im satisfied that Aviva acted fairly when it said this criteria was not met. 
Mrs H told this Service that some abnormal ECG results werent included in her medical 
records that were sent to Aviva. Mrs H, understandably, wanted to ensure these were 
considered by Aviva. But from what Mrs H has said this is new information that hasnt yet 
been considered by Aviva. If thats the case then Mrs H will need to send this to Aviva in the 
first instance, and if shes unhappy with its response she may complain to Aviva about that, 
and may bring it as a new complaint to this Service. But Id remind Mrs H that abnormal ECG 
results are not enough for a claim to be successful here, as all the requirements of her 
policys heart attack definition would need to be met. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman