DRN-1790460
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain, through a claims management company (CMC), that they were 
given unsuitable investment advice by Nationwide Building Society. In particular the CMC 
has raised the following complaint points:
Mr and Mrs Bs should not have been advised to invest in the GEB given their 
modest circumstances and lack of investment experience.
They were not high-risk investors as the point of sales documents record and nothing 
in their history that suggested this.
Mr B was six years away from retirement and should not have been advised to risk 
his capital.
There is no illustration for the GEB as for the other investments Mr and Mrs B were 
recommended and the information provided would not have allowed them to make an 
informed decision about the GEB
Mr and Mrs B werent given the information they needed to understand whether a 
guaranteed interest-bearing product would be better. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B saw an adviser for Nationwide in August 2005 who advised them in relation to 
various investments including that they invest £25,000 in a Guaranteed Equity Bond (GEB) 
over a term of five years which investment is the subject of this complaint.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that Mr and Mrs B had the capacity to invest in the GEB over the long term to meet their 
investment objective, which was to invest for growth. He said that Mr B had previous 
investment experience and made an informed decision to invest and had sufficient cash 
reserves.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigator. In short it made the following points:
The information about the shares Mr B already had at the time of advice is wrong and 
the only shares he has ever had are from an employee share scheme with one 
company and some free shares he got on the demutualisation of a building society.
Mr B was a novice investor and not prepared to take high-risks with his investments.
The average projection for the GEB was lower than the risk-free return Mr B couldve 
secured in fixed rate bonds at the time of sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important to make clear that, where there is a dispute about a significant fact in a 
complaint I will make findings based on a balance of probabilities, what I think is more likely 
than not, based on the information I have been given by the parties. The GEB tracked the FTSE 100 index and paid out at the end of the term based on the 
change in the index. It worked by taking the level of the index when the investment was 
made and the level of index at the end of the term of the bond (averaged over the last 12 
months) and then calculating what the percentage increase was over the term. It then paid 
out 80% of this increase together with the original amount invested. If there was a drop in the 
index rather than an increase then there was no gain, but the investor would get back their 
original capital investment. 
I have not been given the maturity value of the GEB but looking at the FTSE 100 index over 
the term of the bond I think it is unlikely to have made any gains so Mr and Mrs B are likely 
to have got back just their initial capital investment. But that doesnt mean that the GEB was 
mis-sold.
The CMC has raised a number of issues with the GEB which it says made it an unsuitable 
recommendation. 
It has referred to Mr and Mrs Bs risk appetite being wrongly identified as high risk. I 
understand why it has suggested this. Mr and Mrs B were almost entirely invested in cash at 
the time they saw the adviser and high risk was the highest risk category identified by the 
adviser. 
But the additional notes in the fact find refers to the adviser having discussed the different 
risk categories in detail and states that Mr B accepts that there is a substantial possibility 
they could suffer a higher capital loss or shortfall in order to receive a potentially higher rate 
of return on savings than if they invested in medium risk investments.
The notes also refer to Mr B having invested in shares over the years and investment in one 
particular company, where the value had more or less reduced to nil. The notes go on to say 
that Mr B has bought and sold shares over the years as he wanted to take a risk and 
speculate a little. 
I acknowledge the CMC has said that Mr B has no knowledge of the company referenced in 
the report, and that the only shares he had were from an employee share scheme and 
demutualisation of a building society. 
But Mr and Mrs B signed the fact find. I think it is unlikely the adviser wouldve put something 
that hadnt been discussed in the fact find when he had no reason to think they wouldnt read 
the information and pick up on this before signing.
There is also a short, handwritten, appendix that states:
You have stated that your attitude to risk for your investment portfolio is high however your 
existing investment portfolio indicates a low attitude to risk portfolio based upon Nationwide 
Portfolio guidelines.
We have discussed this and you have said that you have never been in a position to be high 
risk before. You have sufficient money in your emergency fund and you now feel that the 
time is right to invest some money into something other than deposit based investments and 
this now reflects your high attitude to risk. 
You wish to invest £25,000 into equity based investment. You wish to invest 12,500 into a 
low risk mixed asset fund. You wish to invest £7,000 into a high risk fund and £5,500 into a 
medium risk fund. Both of these funds you want to be actively managed.The CMC has also indicated this isnt accurate. But it is very clear, and Mr and Mrs B signed 
the appendix in addition to the fact find. Again I think it is unlikely the adviser wouldve set 
out something that Mr and Mrs B then had to sign which didnt reflect what had been said.  
I also note that the suitability report shows that Mr and Mrs B did not follow all of the 
recommendations made by the adviser  they made their own decisions in respect of some 
of the money they were investing. So I think they were comfortable making investment 
decisions for themselves. 
Taking all of the above into account Im not satisfied there is sufficient evidence to show that 
the adviser got Mr and Mrs Bs risk appetite wrong. 
Im also mindful that although the GEB was linked to the FTSE 100 index, it didnt invest 
directly in equities, and also provided a capital guarantee. So, there was no risk to capital as 
such - as the CMC has suggested there was. There was still obviously a risk Mr and Mrs B 
would just get back their capital so that their money wouldve lost value in real terms due to 
inflation. But this risk is set out in the suitability report and the key facts document. 
Im not persuaded that they werent provided with sufficient information to make an informed 
decision. The complaint refers to Mr and Mrs B not being given sufficient information to know 
whether an interest-bearing product might have been more suitable. I note that in response 
to the investigators opinion the CMC has referred to the average projection for returns on 
the GEB being lower than the risk-free return that couldve been obtained on fixed rate 
bonds. 
Nationwide didnt have a five-year fixed rate bond at the time. It did have a three-year fixed 
rate bond which wouldve returned 4.4% each year over the term. I am not persuaded in this 
case that Mr and Mrs B shouldve been advised to invest in a no-risk fixed rate product such 
as Nationwide's three year fixed-rate bond rather than in the GEB.
The GEB gave them the potential to get back more than they could achieve through a fixed-
rate bond. Im mindful that share values had been steadily rising over the past two years 
before the investment - something I think Mr B would have been aware of through his own 
shares, even if had simply received these rather than ever purchasing any.
In summary, I have not seen enough persuasive evidence that the GEB was unsuitable for 
Mr and Mrs B when it was recommended to them in 2005.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman