DRN-3388046
The complaint
Mr R complains he was unable to make a payment transfer using his Bank of Scotland Plc 
(BoS) banking app. 
What happened
Mr R says he tried to make a payment transfer using his BoS mobile app on 7 October 2021. 
He says he was unable to make the payment because the app was down. And so he made a 
70-mile roundtrip in order to ensure the money was provided to his daughter.  
Mr R complained to BoS. In response BoS said there were other ways Mr R could have 
completed the transaction such as over the telephone. But as a gesture of goodwill it offered 
Mr R £32 for the travel costs incurred and £30 for the inconvenience Mr R experienced. Mr R 
accepted the offer; however he doesnt think it reflects the distress and inconvenience the 
situation caused him. 
Mr R brought his complaint to this service and our investigator looked into things for him. 
The investigator said she could understand it would have been frustrating for Mr R to not be 
able to use the app as he wanted but said she thought the offer of compensation was fair in 
all the circumstances.  
Mr R doesnt accept the view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think BoS has made an appropriate offer of compensation. 
There is no dispute that on 7 October 2021 Mr R was unable to use his banking app, and so 
would have been frustrated in not being able to make the payment. But I also accept that on 
occasion apps or online banking may be unavailable or subject to maintenance. 
I appreciate Mr R says he needed to give his daughter the money in an emergency and 
didnt have time to explore other ways of sending payment. But he opted to drive a 70-mile 
round trip to deliver the money by hand. And I dont think its clear why he chose to do that. I 
think it should have been obvious to him when the app wasnt working that he could have 
contacted the bank by telephone or visited a branch.  
Im satisfied BoS has apologised for what took place and offered what I think is a fair and 
reasonable offer of £62. As a result Mr R hasnt suffered any financial loss. And I think the 
impact of the app not working, though frustrating for Mr R, was relatively minimal overall. I 
also think Mr R could have made the payment via a different method if he wished. 
I appreciate Mr R would like BoS to increase the amount of compensation it has offered. It 
was Mr Rs choice to make the round trip when other methods of payment were available. 
But in any event Im satisfied BoS have paid fair and reasonable compensation of £62. And 
so I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman