DRN-2746427
The complaint
Mr G complains that advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP regarding the 
transfer of some occupational pension benefits was inappropriate.  
What happened
Mr G has been assisted in making this complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
But, for simplicity, in this decision I will generally refer to all communication as having been 
with, and from, Mr G himself.
Mr G was a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS). In 2011 Portal approached 
Mr G to offer him a review of his pension arrangements  Mr G agreed to a review and 
provided information to Portal about his circumstances. Portal recorded at that time that 
Mr G was 55 years of age with two grown up children. It noted that his primary objective was 
to release his pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  generally known as tax-free cash) 
to pay off some of his mortgage and another loan. Portal assessed Mr Gs attitude to risk as 
being moderately adventurous.
Portal advised Mr G that he should transfer his pension savings from the OPS. Mr G 
accepted Portals recommendation and the transfer of his pension savings was completed 
later that year. At that time he was paid the maximum PCLS available from his transferred 
benefits.
In 2013 Mr G sought some further advice from Portal. Following that advice Mr G used the 
remainder of his pension savings to purchase an annuity. But that advice doesnt form part 
of the complaint Mr G has made, and so wont be something that I consider in this decision.
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think that advice 
Portal had given to Mr G about the transfer of his pension benefits was suitable. She thought 
it unlikely that Mr G would be able to replicate the guaranteed benefits he was giving up in 
the OPS with those he might receive from a personal pension. And she didnt think that there 
was any pressing need for Mr G to access his PCLS at that time. So she thought the 
complaint should be upheld and asked Portal to pay Mr G some compensation.
Portal didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr G accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr G and by Portal. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I 
have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.  
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Portal advised Mr G were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like Portal, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, Portal 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Gs 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to     
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the clients best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
It seems to me that Portal did much of what it needed to in terms of the information it 
gathered from Mr G, and the analysis it performed. But that isnt enough. It also needed to 
ensure that the recommendation it gave was in the best interests of Mr G. I dont have any 
concerns that he was given the relevant information on which he might base a decision. But 
I think the overwhelming factor in Mr G reaching that decision would have been the 
recommendation that Portal gave him. He was after all paying Portal to provide its 
professional opinion about whether it would be in his best interests to complete the transfer.
Much of the analysis that Portal is required to perform looks at whether Mr G would be able 
to replicate the guaranteed benefits offered by the OPS via a personal pension. Clearly in 
order to reach that conclusion a number of assumptions need to be made regarding matters 
such as investment performance, and future rates of inflation. So I consider it reasonable 
that any advice Portal gave would have needed to take account of a far wider set of 
circumstances.
Generally the starting point for the financial analysis would be what is termed the critical 
yield. That is the rate at which the personal pension would need to grow in order to provide a 
consumer with sufficient pension savings at retirement to replicate the OPS benefits that 
were being given up. Portals analysis suggested that the critical yield for Mr Gs pension 
savings was around 7.5%.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at 
retirement was quoted as 7.5% per year. This compares with the discount rate of 5% per 
year for 4 years to retirement in this case.
Portal assessed Mr Gs attitude to risk when it provided him with this advice. It noted that its 
conclusion was that Mr G should be considered to be moderately adventurous. I have seen 
that Portal has said that assessment was based on an industry standard assessment tool. 
But I have concerns about whether Portal reached a reasonable conclusion.
Portals own notes from the time suggest that a consumer exhibiting this attitude to risk 
would typically have moderate to high levels of financial knowledge and will usually keep up 
to date on financial issues. They will usually be fairly experienced investors, who have used 
a range of investment products in the past. In general, Portal says moderately adventurous 
investors are willing to take on investment risk and understand that this is crucial in terms of 
generating long-term return. They are willing to take risk with a substantial proportion of their 
available assets.
Those descriptors do not fit with what I know about Mr Gs circumstances at that time. 
I havent seen any indications that Mr G held other investments, or had much experience in 
investment matters. And the pension savings Mr G was being advised to transfer comprised 
the entirety of his provision for retirement that had been built up over the majority of his 
working life. I think Mr G was ill-equipped to take any chances that those savings might be 
lost through over risky investments, particularly given the relatively short time until he would 
be expected to retire.
So based on the financial analysis alone, it seems to me that the transfer to a personal 
pension would leave Mr G unlikely to be able to replicate the benefits that the OPS 
guaranteed to him. The regulator expected that Portal would need to positively show that 
any transfer would be in Mr Gs best interests before recommending that he proceed.
When it gave the advice Portal recorded that Mr Gs over-riding objective was to release his 
PCLS so that he could repay some outstanding borrowing. But Portal also recorded at that 
time that Mr G was able to meet the repayments on that borrowing from his normal income. 
So whilst it might have been attractive for Mr G to reduce his debts, I can see no pressing 
need that required him to repay those debts at that time.
Taking a significant PCLS at that time would most likely put pressure on Mr Gs available 
income later in his retirement. I havent seen anything for example that would suggest Mr Gs 
life expectancy was impaired through ill health, or that he had any expectation of significant 
additional income or capital becoming available later in life. So I think Portal needed to take 
great care to ensure that Mr G fully considered how he might use any pension savings 
across the whole of his retirement. I think it would be fair to conclude that these pension 
savings would be needed to provide the majority of Mr Gs retirement income. 
The regulations, and therefore Portals responsibility, were in place to protect consumers 
from making decisions that might have significant and adverse implications in the later years 
of a consumers retirement. Pension savings were intended to provide for the whole of a 
consumers remaining life. It is generally unlikely that it would be in a consumers best 
interests to use those savings for the purposes that Portal set out here.I have considered that just a couple of years later Mr G decided to use his remaining 
pension savings to purchase an annuity. As Portal says, he effectively swapped one 
guaranteed benefit from the OPS for another in the form of the annuity. But I understand that 
Mr Gs decision to take the annuity followed a significant change in the health of one of his 
children  it doesnt seem to be something that he expected when Portal gave the original 
advice to him. So, although him taking the annuity should be something that Portal 
reasonably considers when calculating any redress payable to Mr G, I dont think it has any 
bearing on my assessment of whether the original advice was appropriate.
So I dont think the recommendation that Portal gave was in Mr Gs best interests. I think he 
should instead have been advised to not transfer his pension benefits. I dont think it was 
sufficient for Portal to provide information to Mr G and expect him to take responsibility for 
making the transfer decision  he was relying on the professional assessment and 
recommendation of the firm. So Portal needs to put things right for Mr G.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr G, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider, at that time, he would 
have remained in the occupational scheme. Portal must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the decision. 
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Gs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into a pension plan for Mr G, or used to provide an additional annuity. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the 
loss adequately reflects this. 
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr G. Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Portal Financial Services LLP 
to put things right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman