DRN-1722786
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited ("LV") unfairly settled a 
third party's claim against her motor insurance policy. 
Mr S, who is a named driver under Mrs S's policy, has been representing Mrs S during this 
complaint. To keep things simple, and because Mrs S was the main policyholder, I've 
referred to both Mr S and Mrs S as "Mrs S" in my decision, unless stated otherwise. 
What happened
In July 2018 Mr S - who was a named driver under Mrs S's policy - was towing their caravan 
in a service station when it collided with a third party's vehicle. Mrs S said her own vehicle 
wasn't damaged, but her caravan had some minimal damage and the third party's vehicle 
was damaged more severely. 
Mrs S said she exchanged details with the third party at the scene and later contacted LV to 
report the incident. After Mrs S notified LV of the incident, she said she didn't hear from it 
again. 
LV said it told Mrs S on the call that it would contact the third party. It also said that based on 
what Mrs S told it on the call, that it decided to settle the third party's claim in full against Mrs 
S's policy. LV also said it notified Mrs S that her motor insurance premium would increase as 
a result. 
Mrs S then later contacted LV to say she thought the third party driver was to blame. She 
said she had looked at photos of the damage, the width of her caravan and the location of 
the damage to it and the third party's vehicle, and provided her own thoughts as to why they 
were to blame for the incident. 
LV considered what Mrs S said but didn't agree it demonstrated the third party was to blame 
and not Mr S. So Mrs S raised a complaint and LV issued its final response to her in May 
2019 maintaining its position. So Mrs S brought a complaint to our service for consideration. 
Our investigator looked into everything carefully and didn't think the complaint should be 
upheld. She said LV is entitled to decide whether it defends or settles any claim under the 
policy. So she said she didn't agree that LV had acted unfairly. 
Mrs S disagreed with our investigators view. She said the photos provided and 
accompanying explanation demonstrated that the third party was to blame. She doesn't think 
the third party was stationary at the time of the collision. As no resolution could be met, the 
case has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's important for me to firstly explain that my role here isn't to decide who was at fault for the incident. My role is to consider whether LV has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy. And, whilst I appreciate this will disappoint Mrs S 
because I've seen how passionately she's argued her point of view, I'm not in agreement 
that LV has done anything wrong. I'll now explain why. 
Like most insurance policies I've seen, Mrs S's policy states under section 12 that LV is 
'entitled to: have total control to conduct, defend and settle any claim'. This means that LV is 
entitled to defend and settle any claim as it sees fit. It doesn't need Mrs S's approval to admit 
liability, settle a claim or make a payment to a third party. With that, LV also isn't obliged to 
take a case to court even if Mrs S strongly feels it should do so. LV is entitled to consider all 
evidence and also the economics of proceeding to defend the case and the potential costs 
and risks involved in doing so. 
As above, this is a common term across most policies I've seen. And whilst we agree that 
this term in principle is fair and reasonable, an insurer - such as LV - needs to demonstrate 
that it's applied the term fairly and reasonably. 
There's no dispute that Mr S and the third party collided which caused some damage to the 
caravan, and more substantial damage to the third party's vehicle. What is in dispute here is 
whether LV acted fairly and reasonably by deciding to settle the third party's claim against 
Mrs S's policy. 
LV said it relied on the information Mrs S provided during the initial call she made to it in July 
2018 to report the incident. I've listened to the call and note Mrs S said that Mr S was driving 
and collided with the third party's vehicle whilst they were stationary. She said this occurred 
when Mr S was looking for a parking space and tried to manoeuvre around the service 
station. Mrs S also said she was unsure whether the third party was in their vehicle at the 
time of the incident or not. 
LV then used the information Mrs S provided during the call to follow up with the third party 
and decided to settle the claim based on the information provided to it. Having listened to the 
call, I'm satisfied LV didn't act unfairly by relying on the information Mrs S provided it when 
reporting the incident. It took the decision, as the policy enables it to, to settle the third 
party's claim in full against Mrs S's policy. 
What followed was Mrs S's submission of further evidence she provided in the form of 
photos and rationale as to why she thought the third party was to blame. Mrs S said the 
photos clearly showed the third party was outside the lines of the parking bay and therefore 
shows they were to blame for the accident, and not Mr S. Mrs S is unhappy LV didn't 
communicate with her further following the initial call she made to it in July 2018 and settled 
the claim without speaking to her again. But I don't think LV acted unreasonably by doing so 
based on the information Mrs S provided during the call. 
Mrs S also said had the third party been in the position it was in prior to the incident shown 
within the photos, Mr S would've seen it and wouldn't have been able to proceed, and that 
the damage present proved the third party vehicle was in motion during the time of the 
incident. 
LV considered the information Mrs S provided but didn't agree that demonstrated Mr S 
wasn't at fault and the third party was. It didn't think the photos evidenced that the third party 
had caused the incident because it didn't show the third party vehicle in motion. 
I accept Mrs S feels strongly about her point of view. But having carefully considered 
everything, on balance I don't agree that LV has acted unreasonably here. As above, it's 
entitled to choose to defend a claim it sees as the most appropriate action under the policy. It relied on Mrs S's information she provided during the call in July 2018 when she first gave 
details about how the incident occurred. LV has considered the further information she 
provided but didn't agree it was strong enough evidence to conclusively say that the third 
party was at fault for the accident. And it's entitled to make this decision with the other 
considerations that I've mentioned above. 
Therefore, whilst I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mrs S, for the reasons 
set out above, I can't agree that LV has acted unfairly or applied the policy terms cited above 
unreasonably. LV chose to settle the third party's claim against Mrs S policy as its entitled to. 
And therefore, I won't require LV to do anything here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July2020.
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman