DRN-2495259
The complaint
Mr W and Miss W complain Santander UK Plc (Santander) incorrectly used a capital 
repayment they made to reduce the term of the mortgage instead of reducing the monthly 
repayments as had been agreed. This has caused them stress and anxiety.  
What happened
Mr W and Miss W have a repayment mortgage with Santander. Theyve said their mortgage 
repayments at the time of the error were around £950 per month. In March 2019, as they 
were on a standard variable interest rate (SVR) they applied for a new mortgage product 
on a fixed rate of 1.89% for 24 months after which it wouldve reverted to another SVR. As 
part of the application, they also agreed to make a capital repayment of around £58,290 so 
that their monthly mortgage repayments would reduce to around £376.
Mr W and Miss W completed and signed the acceptance form for the mortgage transfer 
around the end of February 2019 and returned it to Santander. They made the capital 
repayment around 18 March 2019  a few days after the deadline for doing so.
Instead of the mortgage repayments being reduced, the capital repayment was used to 
reduce the term of the mortgage. So Mr W and Miss Ws monthly repayments stayed at 
around the same amount they were previously. Santander has since said this was done in 
error. So to put things right, it corrected the outstanding term and it refunded the difference 
between the interest rate Mr W and Miss W had on their mortgage and the lower interest 
rate they shouldve had. And after a further complaint, it also refunded the extra capital 
theyd paid as a result of the higher mortgage repayments. Santander also paid Mr W and 
Miss W £250 in compensation to make up for what theyd been through.
Mr W told me he and Miss W didnt realise a mistake had been made in March 2019 as the 
repayment amount hadnt changed too much. They just thought their application hadnt been 
successful. They were aware the capital repayment had been taken but assumed it didnt 
make a difference to their monthly repayments. Mr Ws said after they started to struggle 
financially he got in touch with Santander in July and September 2019 to apply for a new 
product again or further borrowing to help them make ends meet. He was told at this point it 
wasnt possible to apply for a new product, term extension or further borrowing because their 
circumstances didnt meet the lending criteria. It was only when they complained to 
Santander about the service theyd received that it discovered a mistake had been made.
 Mr W and Miss W have said theyve experienced a great deal of stress and anxiety because 
of whats happened. They were in a very difficult situation financially because of the 
mortgage repayments being higher than they were meant to be (and theyd planned for them 
to be) when deciding to move home and employment. And they were told by Santander 
there was nothing it could do to resolve their situation. They think Santander should do more 
to make up for the trouble and upset theyve been put through. Theyve said they had to sell 
their belongings, change their plans and Mr W saw a therapist because of whats happened.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He accepted Santander had made a mistake 
but he thought Mr W and Miss W couldve highlighted what had gone wrong sooner  
instead it took them around six months. He also noted theyd made the capital repayment 
after the deadline set out in the mortgage transfer offer and they hadnt specified what it was 
to be used for. So he thought it was understandable Santander used it towards reducing the 
term of the mortgage rather than the monthly payments. As Mr W and Miss W didnt agree, 
the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2020. I thought the complaint 
should be upheld in summary because:
Santander had accepted itd made a mistake by using the capital repayment to reduce 
the mortgage term. So I only thought about whether itd done enough to put things right.
I thought because of what had happened (Santanders error), Mr W and Miss W were 
unable to make ends meet and had to put their plans on hold. And I thought that 
wouldve been extremely disappointing and stressful for them. 
Mr W and Miss W said they hadnt received any correspondence to say the mortgage 
term had been reduced and Santander hadnt sent us anything to show otherwise. And I 
didnt think if theyd realised their application had been approved in March 2019 and they 
shouldve already been on a new product, they wouldve applied again later.
I was persuaded Mr W and Miss W didnt raise a complaint sooner because they didnt 
realise anything had gone wrong.
Although during a call, Santanders advisor mentioned the term of the mortgage was 
around four years to Mr W, I thought he didnt question it because he was confused, not 
because he was already aware. 
I didnt think it would be fair to direct Santander to reimburse Mr W for the cost of the 
therapy as I wasnt satisfied it was as a direct result of Santanders actions only. 
To put things right in this case, I thought Santander should pay Mr W and Miss W a further 
£500 as compensation for what theyd been through. Santander had already refunded the 
credit payments when they were higher than they shouldve been. But I also thought it 
should pay 8% simple interest on that amount. I didnt think it needed to do more to make up 
for Mr W and Miss W selling their belongings to meet their mortgage repayments. 
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. Mr W 
and Miss W told me they were happy theyd been listened to and understood. They were 
disappointed I didnt think Santander should cover the cost of Mr Ws therapy but they 
appreciated its difficult to say it was needed because of this error. Santander didnt agree 
with my provisional decision. It said it was prepared to increase the compensation itd paid 
by a further £250 but nothing further. It said in summary:
Whilst it cant provide the correspondence showing there had been a change in the term 
of the mortgage, Mr W and Miss W had made the capital repayment online and they 
didnt select the option to reduce the payment amount (rather than the mortgage term). 
Its given us a screenshot of its internal system to show this. It no longer accepts it made a mistake in reducing the term of the mortgage. Its 
highlighted that it told Mr W and Miss W to make the capital repayment by cheque and 
their application had been cancelled. So it thinks the problem was caused by them 
making the payment online and after the deadline had passed. 
It accepts it shouldve written to Mr W and Miss W to confirm the mortgage term had 
reduced. But it pointed out Mr W didnt react when he was told the remaining term over 
the phone. So it questions whether a letter wouldve prompted them. 
It thinks Mr W and Miss W knew what had happened as the higher payments wouldve 
impacted their finances and they were sent correspondence to confirm. 
By backdating the product conversion it was acting in the customers best interests  but 
that doesnt mean its done anything wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about all of the comments Ive received from both sides. And I think this 
complaint should be upheld in part. 
I note Santander has said it now doesnt accept it did anything wrong in this case  instead it 
thinks the error was caused by Mr W and Miss W making the capital repayment online and 
after the deadline. But its not explained why this wouldve caused the mortgage term to be 
reduced. So Im not persuaded by what its said. 
Santander has also said Mr W and Miss W didnt select that they wanted to reduce their 
monthly repayments when making the capital payment online. And its given me a 
screenshot of its internal notes to show this. But I cant see how it does. The screenshot its 
given me is from September 2019. And it seems to be detailing a conversation with the 
customers. It says the advisor told them they wouldve selected the option online to reduce 
the term when they made the capital repayment. And the customers insisted they didnt  
and in any event they werent given the option. Santander hasnt given me details of what 
Mr W and Miss W wouldve seen when they made the capital repayment  or any evidence 
to show they selected to reduce the term. So I dont see how this note changes anything.
I appreciate Santander thinks if it had written to Mr W and Miss W to let them know the term 
had been reduced, it wouldnt have made a difference. And its based this on Mr W not 
reacting when he was told over the phone the remaining mortgage term was only four years. 
But I dont agree. I say this because Ive listened to the calls Santander is referring to and 
Im not satisfied Mr W didnt react to the information about the mortgage term  instead I 
think he was confused by it. 
During the call in July 2019, Santanders advisor mentioned the mortgage will end in 2024. 
In response, Mr W said he thought that was wrong and before he could say much more, the 
advisor interrupted to say hed made a mistake and talked about the rate the mortgage was 
on. I accept during the call in September 2019, the advisor told Mr W the remaining term 
was around four years. In response, Mr W asked the advisor to double check and mentioned 
they were on an SVR. He also started to explain again what his and Miss Ws plans with the 
capital repayment originally were and said he didnt think it would be possible for them to pay 
the mortgage off in four years. Again, the advisor interrupted him at that point. And it was 
shortly after this conversation Mr W and Miss W raised a complaint to Santander. Having listened carefully to these conversations, Im not satisfied Mr W understood the 
advisors were telling him the term of the mortgage was already four years or that it had been 
reduced incorrectly. From the follow up questions he asked and the comments he made, it 
seems to me he was confused by what was said  and thats because the advisors didnt go 
into detail and in both conversations interrupted Mr W when he was questioning it.
Santander hasnt given me anything to show it contacted Mr and Miss W when the term was 
reduced to let them know this had happened. Had it done so, I think they wouldve got in 
touch sooner to question things. Mr W and Miss W have told me the monthly mortgage 
repayments didnt change. And because theyd received a letter saying their application had 
been cancelled, they thought things had just carried on as before. Whilst I appreciate 
Santander thinks they shouldve noticed the impact on their finances by the term being 
reduced, for the reasons theyve given, I think its understandable they didnt. 
I understand Santander doesnt think it should need to add interest to the extra capital 
Mr W and Miss W paid towards their mortgage. But, I think its more likely things have gone 
wrong in this case because of Santander. And as Mr and Miss W have been out of pocket as 
a result, I would expect it to add simple interest as per our usual approach.  
Putting things right
To put things right in this case, I think Santander should:
pay Mr W and Miss W a further £500 compensation. Its already paid them £250. So 
this would mean it would have paid a total of £750.
add 8% simple interest on the extra capital they paid towards their mortgage from the 
date they made each payment until the date it refunded the amount to them*.
*If Santander UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W and Miss W how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr W and Miss W a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr W and Miss Ws complaint and direct Santander UK 
Plc to put things right by doing what Ive said above. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Miss W to accept or reject my decision 
before 10 March 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman