DRN-3412100
The complaint
Mr N, Ms M and Ms R complain that Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros 
(Ocaso) unfairly declined a claim for subsidence under a Professional Let Home Insurance 
Policy.
Mr N is leading the complaint correspondence and so Ill refer to him throughout this 
decision.
What happened
A very brief background for context is that a subsidence claim arose around 2004 and 
superstructure repairs occurred around 2009. Around October 2015 further damage was 
noted and it is this thats the subject of this decision.
Agents for Ocaso inspected the property and found structural damage (internal and 
external). 
A drain survey showed a medium displaced joint in a drain run but the surveyor didnt 
consider this to be a concern and it was otherwise deemed serviceable. 
Trial holes were excavated, and the property was found to suffer from localised 
differential foundation movement. But this was considered the result of the 
foundations being undermined during previous drainage channel installation some 
years previous. 
A void of around 30cm x 30cm was found below a part of the foundations but wasnt 
thought to be related to leaking drains. 
The investigation identified that the existing foundation had been broken to 
accommodate installation of drainage channels and was not reinforced or adapted, 
so causing a transfer of load to adjacent areas.
It was concluded that poor workmanship, when the building was converted into self-
contained flats, in not ensuring the distribution of weight over drainage channels, and 
no enhancement of foundations undertaken to transmit the load of the building below 
drainage channel depth was the cause of the structural movement. 
Ocaso rejected the subsidence claim.
Mr N challenged this on several points:
It wasnt persuasive given that the works were done in the early 1980s and so poor 
works would have manifested well before the next 30 years had passed.
It was possible contractors involved in a previous insurance claim hadnt carried out 
their works properly. He mentions a boundary wall that was reinforced but only 
partially and the part that wasnt is where damage occurs now.
He says other properties in the road are suffering subsidence and so it cant be 
linked to poor workmanship at his address.
Our investigator didnt think Ocaso had unfairly rejected the claim in 2015, and he wasnt 
persuaded new information from Mr N undermined the original claim decision. In summary, 
he said:
Ocaso had arranged site investigations to take place and expert reports concluded 
that previous works undermined the foundations with no appropriate support in place. 
And it was because of this that damage had occurred.
He was persuaded by the expert evidence provided and couldnt see that an insured 
event had caused damage.
New evidence from Mr N (expert reports) post-dated the 2015 claim by five years and 
only revealed several potential causes rather than a conclusive causal position:
oDiffering foundations mean different parts of the building could settle 
independently of each other.
oAn assumption that a high-water table could be responsible.
oA dip in the road pavement / main drainage chamber location confirms high 
water content, migration into the road foundation from the drainage, the road 
substructure softens and washed away causing structure failure.
oWork to repair steps at the property many have overloaded the foundation, 
which may necessitate additional support to the property by underpinning 
original foundations.
While a high-water level may result in a valid insurance claim, where it results in 
ground failure, there was insufficient evidence to show this caused the damage to Mr 
Ns property reported in 2015.
Mr N disagreed with the investigator. In addition to points hed made previously, Mr N said 
the relevant water authority hadnt been helpful and brushed the drainage issue aside. His 
view is that there is a problem with insufficient drainage in the street and this could be the 
main cause for subsidence on the street. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the insurance policy there is cover for Subsidence, Landslip or Heave of the site upon 
which the Building stand. As Mr N is making a claim for damage because of subsidence, he 
bears the burden of proving he has a valid claim. He was able to demonstrate damage and 
Ocaso undertook site investigations to establish the cause of the damage.
 
The expert reports from investigations in 2015 include those of drainage experts and 
engineers. And indeed, additional investigations were carried out to establish a likely cause 
of damage. The conclusions were that the drainage runs were not leaking and so not likely 
to be a cause, and previous works carried out left a void beneath part of the foundations and 
inadequate enhancements to transmit loads to firm ground. 
The Building Surveyor concluded that in the absence of any drainage leaks, or evidence of 
dried out soil the damage was likely the result of previous works undermining the 
foundations, so not subsidence.
I find the reports persuasive as to what caused the damage at Mr Ns property given they are 
from suitably qualified people based on relatively intrusive observations through trial pits and 
CCTV examinations. Im satisfied these demonstrate, on balance, that subsidence was not 
the cause of the damage Mr N reported.Ive thought carefully about the points Mr N has raised in disagreement and the reports he 
provided more recently (2020 and 2021). While these too are from suitably qualified experts, 
they dont persuade me, on balance, that subsidence is the likely cause of the damage in 
2015, or that its related to previous repairs, or that a high-water table is responsible. 
I note, for example, possible causes of the damage such as:
We believe that the existing foundation have been over stressed due to excessive 
additional loads from concrete stair and supporting steel beam.
Differential settlement where foundation depths are different.
High-water table due to failed drainage system on the road (with recommendation 
that the water authority be contacted to check and repair the road drainage system).
I note the above points are listed as possible causes and I put some focus on the last. Water 
noted in the road gullies was deemed to be indicative of poor drainage conditions and 
possibly a leak. But the investigative works didnt explore that and so Im not persuaded 
theres sufficient evidence in such an assumption to show theres subsidence on Mr Ns site.
I appreciate Mr N will be disappointed, but on the evidence provided Im not persuaded it has 
been shown subsidence is the cause of the damage at his property. To the contrary, 
Ocasos experts have provided persuasive evidence that other non-insured events are, more 
likely than not, the cause. In particular, the policy excludes loss or damage arising from 
defective materials, faulty workmanship, specification, or design. And its apparent to me 
from the evidence, Ocaso has demonstrated the workmanship and specification of the 
alterations at Mr Ns property are faulty given the compromised state of the foundations 
because of those alterations. And its this that has given rise to the damage.
Finally, Ill cover the issue of a potentially high-water impacting the water authoritys road 
drainage. On the evidence Mr N has provided its not persuasive that its causing damage to 
his property, its listed as a possibility but theres been no physical examination of the ground 
beneath the water authoritys drainage system. I have noted above ground video footage 
from Mr N that shows the road and pavement outside the curtilage of his property sloping 
and depressed.
 
These areas are not covered by Mr Ns policy and even if the drainage was faulty Ocaso 
couldnt unilaterally work on those faults even if they were impacting Mr Ns property. It 
seems to me that Mr N will need to raise this with the water authority and the local authority 
responsible for the roads and pavements where he lives. If these authorities carry out work 
and its found there is an issue and that issue could be causing damage to Mr Ns property, 
he should provide that to Ocaso, and Id expect it to review that information. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M, Mr N and 
Ms R to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman