DRN-3454046
The complaint
Mr S complains that Brancaster House Limited (BHL) misrepresented their advice process 
when he asked them to advise on a transfer of his benefits from a defined benefit (DB) 
scheme to a personal pension. He was also unhappy about how BHL handled his complaint 
and the time it took to respond.
What happened
Mr S was interested in transferring his DB pension to a personal pension, so he contacted 
BHL in early 2020. His key reasons for wanting to transfer were that he wanted to take his 
benefits flexibly in retirement and that he didnt want his benefits to be lost if he died as he 
was unmarried without children and didnt foresee this to change.
Mr S met with an adviser and his circumstances, objectives and personal details were 
discussed. It was agreed that they would do a Pension Transfer report which compared the 
benefits from his DB scheme with benefits in a personal pension. The cost for this was 
agreed as £1,995. 
After having discussed the report, Mr S was given the choice of whether he wanted to 
continue with the advice process and receive a recommendation on how to proceed. Further 
fees would apply which would be due if the recommendation was to remain in the DB 
scheme or transfer to a personal pension. Mr S was confident he understood the differences 
between the DB benefits and benefits in a personal pension. He had worked in the financial 
services industry for many years and had good pensions knowledge. He chose to continue 
with the process.
BHL subsequently issued a suitability report in which they recommended that Mr S should 
not transfer his pension. Mr S had another meeting where he tried to persuade their 
recommendation was wrong. BHL remained of the view Mr S should not transfer.
Mr S says his needs and motivations for the transfer were ignored. He says BHLs own 
modelling showed he could realistically achieve a higher annual income figure in a 
drawdown arrangement than his DB scheme. And that although the fund would be eroded by 
age 89 this exceeded the average male life expectancy. He says BHL also didnt take into 
account that he wished to take benefits earlier than 65 to allow him to reduce his working 
hours at that point. Mr S also disagreed with BHLs point that his marital status might change 
in future as he was adamant it wouldnt.  
Mr S says after his initial discussions he was left with the understanding that the adviser 
would be the only person involved in the advice. Instead he found out after the 
recommendation was given that a compliance officer and pension transfer specialist had 
overview of the process. Whilst he understood all his circumstances would be considered 
and it had to be ensured he understood the risks of a transfer, he understood the key 
element was whether his other provisions would him with enough retirement income and his 
DB benefits were surplus which could be moved to a non-guaranteed environment.
However, when BHL gave their advice they focussed on ensuring income needs were 
covered by guaranteed benefits. He said in a follow up meeting it was repeatedly stated that 
they would never advise someone of his age and who was in good health to transfer.
Mr S thinks BHL didnt act with integrity and should have been clear from the start that what 
risk appetite they had and that they would focus on guaranteed income. He thinks they could 
have told him that his age and health made it unlikely a transfer would be recommended.
Mr S says if he had known all of this he would have sought out another firm. He would like 
BHL to waive their fees. Mr S didnt pay his outstanding fees and BHL pursued this via a 
court claim. Mr S paid his fees before a County Court Judgement was issued.
BHL rejected the complaint. One of our investigators didnt think BHL treated Mr S unfairly 
when they provided their advice. However, she did notice that Mr S was charged an overall 
higher fee than he agreed to. She asked BHL to refund the difference with interest which 
they have since done.
Mr S still remained unhappy with the advice part of his complaint, so it was referred to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen the issue with the overcharged fees has now been sorted in a fair 
manner, so Im not going to comment on this further. And I wont be able to comment on Mr 
Ss complaint about how BHL handled his complaint as this isnt a regulated activity.
I understand Mr S wanted BHL to pause court proceedings whilst this complaint was 
ongoing which they declined. However, whilst I appreciate Mr S was unhappy with the fees 
and didnt think he should be charged, he did agree to pay for the advice and not having paid 
any final demands for a considerable time, I think BHL was entitled to pursue the matter this 
way.
Ill now turn to Mr Ss main complaint issue.
I understand Mr S strongly feels the advice should have been to transfer his DB benefits and 
that he considers he had good arguments that supported his wish to do so. However, the 
regulator sets out that the starting assumption when giving DB transfer advice is that it is 
unsuitable and that an adviser should only recommend a transfer if they can clearly 
demonstrate it is in a consumers best interest. 
Having carefully considered BHLs detailed advice, Im satisfied that they did take into 
account Mr Ss circumstances, motivations and plans for retirement and provided advice 
which they considered to be in his best interest. And I cant see that their advice was 
unreasonable or unsuitable. There was a risk Mr S would not be able to match the DB 
income in a personal pension. And Mr S had other pension provisions which could provide 
him with flexible income if he required it, so there was no persuasive need to take more risk 
with his pension and give up guarantees. Whilst Mr S didnt want his pension to be lost if 
he died early, BHL was right to put their primary focus on Mr Ss own retirement benefits. I 
recognise that Mr S has had Hepatitis C which potentially could lead to further issues in 
future and possibly a shortened life expectancy if he developed liver cancer. However, there 
was no concrete indication that Mr S would pass away in the short or medium term and it 
was also possible he could live beyond the average life expectancy which isnt as 
uncommon as Mr S is trying to argue. If his health did deteriorate he could have transferred at that point or possibly benefitted from an ill health pension through his DB scheme. 
I appreciate if Mr S unexpectedly did die early, his beneficiaries would have been better off 
by him transferring. However, I dont think this justified giving up the guarantees of the 
scheme and likely lower benefits for himself in his circumstances.
I also dont see an issue with BHL discussing the option of life cover. The regulator sees 
exploring this alternative if someone is worried about death benefits. Whether Mr S was 
willing to take out life cover or not did not in my view alter the outcome of the advice. 
Mr S obviously doesnt agree with the advice he was given. However, this doesnt mean the 
advice was unsuitable. I also understand BHL refused to facilitate the transfer on an insistent 
client basis. They are entitled to make this decision.
Ive next considered whether Mr S was misled in the advice process as he claims. However, 
I cant see that he was. I think the client agreement was clear that Mr S would pay for a 
pension transfer analysis and if at that point he still wanted to receive a recommendation he 
would be charged an additional sum. 
Mr S says the goalposts had changed and he originally was told the key issue was whether 
his DB benefits were surplus benefits, whereas in the suitability report the focus was on 
providing guaranteed income. BHL say the advice process wasnt explained in this way.
I dont know what exactly was discussed during the meetings and testimonies by the parties 
differ. So I have to rely on other evidence from the time to decide what most likely happened. 
I have seen the advisers fact find notes which did record that Mr S was made aware the 
advice would be based on the most appropriate recommendable actions to achieve his long 
term financial planning needs and objectives, which could mean that a transfer of his DB 
rights is not recommended.  
And the transfer analysis report clearly sets out that none of the information in the report 
should be viewed as a recommendation or advice and that the information didnt seek to 
make an argument in favour or against retaining benefits. It was essentially comparing the 
features of Mr Ss DB scheme with a personal pension.
So based on the evidence provided I cant see that Mr D was given the impression there 
would be one main consideration in the advice process or that he more likely than not would 
be advised to transfer his benefits when he agreed to continue after the transfer analysis 
report.
Mr S says the advice wasnt recommended because of his age (he was 49 at the time) and 
reported good health and that these were factors that were known upfront. So he could have 
been told a transfer was unlikely in his circumstances. However, whilst age and health are of 
course factors that need to be considered, I can see that BHLs advice was not solely based 
on this. Im satisfied they considered Mr Ss circumstances and motivations more holistically. 
And in order to do this properly they needed to go through a thorough advice process. 
Mr S says if he had known a compliance officer and pension transfer specialist were 
involved, he would have known BHLs risk attitude towards DB transfers and could have 
sought out a different adviser. He says he also was under the impression the adviser he had 
spoken to throughout would be the person making the decision.
DB transfer business is heavily regulated and the use of compliance officers and pension 
transfer specialists is normal. The adviser Mr S had spoken to was involved throughout the 
process and Im satisfied that Mr Ss circumstances and objectives were fully understood. So I dont think he was disadvantaged by other people overseeing the process. Im also not 
convinced that if Mr S had known other people were involved he would have aborted the 
advice process and paid another set of fees with a different adviser (who more likely than not 
would also have compliance departments overseeing any DB transfer advice).
Overall, I dont think BHL treated Mr S unfairly and I wont ask them to refund any further 
fees.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman