DRN-4030982
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited trading as More 
Than (RSA)s settled his claim for a lost engagement ring under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H renewed his home insurance policy with RSA by phone in December 2021. He added 
his wifes engagement ring as a specified item for cover under the policy at a value of 
£6,000. 
In October 2022 Mr H made a claim to RSA. He said his wifes engagement had gone down 
a plug hole while she was washing their daughters hair. Mr H said a plumber had attended 
to try and retrieve it, but unfortunately the ring was lost.  
RSA initially told Mr H that the ring was covered for £6,000. However, it later said this was 
incorrect and that cover for the ring was limited to £1,070. 
Mr H complained to RSA. In response, RSA accepted it had given Mr H incorrect information 
initially and for this it paid him compensation of £75. But it said the circumstances of the loss 
meant the ring was correctly covered under personal possessions cover which was different 
to contents cover - and therefore the limit was lower, at £1,070. 
Mr H remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Hed listened to a recording 
of the call between him and RSA at renewal in December 2021. He said RSA hadnt been 
clear about the level of cover - that hed asked about a specific scenario involving if the ring 
went down a plughole - and that RSA gave him the impression the ring would be covered. 
Our Investigator also listened to the call. And he reviewed the policy documents provided 
after Mr H added his wifes engagement ring, along with RSAs comments. 
The Investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He found that it was more 
likely that Mr H was under the impression the engagement ring was covered for £6,000 for 
loss in the home after the renewal call. He didnt think the way the renewal was handled was 
fair to Mr H and so he recommended RSA meet the costs of the lost engagement ring for 
£6,000 as set out under the contents section of the policy. He thought it fair for RSA to 
deduct the additional premium for the cover from the settlement and appropriate excess.
Mr H accepted the Investigators view. RSA didnt agree. In summary it says it cannot cover 
every scenario during a renewal call - it provided policy documents which clearly set out 
what level of cover Mr H had and so it was for him to check. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the key call at renewal in December 2021 between Mr H and RSAs agent. 
Key comments from this call are as follows:
Mr H mentioned that he has a single item of value over £1,000 - his wifes engagement ring 
valued at £6,000. The agent asked Mr H if he wanted the ring to be covered inside the home 
or away from home. Mr H asked if the ring was already covered under accidental loss or 
damage. The agent explained that because of its value, the ring wasnt currently covered at 
all under the policy. The agent asked Mr H if he wanted to cover the ring in the home if there 
was a theft and the ring was stolen. Mr H said possibly while he was reading his renewal 
documents to understand his existing levels of cover. 
Mr H went on to read from the policy wording under his renewal documents and quoted from 
the contents section:
Are there any restrictions on cover?
High value and high risk items such as jewellery and computers covered up to 
£7,500 in total and you must tell us if any one item is worth more than £1,000.
The agent asked Mr H if he wanted the ring covered in the home. Mr H said; yes I guess - 
again where are all these other things covered - just in the home or?
The agent asked Mr H what items he had that was valued at £1,075. Mr H said he believed 
everything else was under that value, apart from the ring. 
The agent then asked; So you just want the ring covered in the home - you dont want that - 
loss or damage if outside the home, is that right?
Mr H asked what the impact would be on his policy for either of those options. The agent 
said; cover outside the home is automatically covered inside of the home when you name 
something outside of the home. She explained that for cover away from home, RSA would 
need to see a valuation no older than three years and produced within 30 days of the policy. 
She gave a quote for this cover. Mr H said he didnt think it was worth it. 
At around 15 minutes, the agent said; if we dont have it outside of the home we can include 
it inside of the home under the contents section under the high risk items. 
The agent explained that RSA wouldnt need to see a valuation for the ring - but the high risk 
limit is set at £7,985. So she said this would leave a small balance for any remaining items. 
Mr H considered this and said:
Im just being silly because its not a lot of money - youd have to lose it down a drain or 
something - or burglary The agent replied; for the worst case scenario - yes. 
Mr H decided to add cover on this basis for an additional premium. 
RSA says it sent Mr H policy documents which clearly set out the levels of cover for the ring 
and the circumstances under which the different levels of cover applied. It says the 
circumstances of the loss mean its personal possessions cover applies, and not its 
contents cover. 
The policy schedule sets out cover under two sections: contents and personal possessions. 
At no stage during the call did the agent refer to personal possessions cover - and I dont 
think she explained clearly enough the distinction between the two levels of cover. 
RSA says its not for it to cover every scenario in a call, and I agree. But we expect an 
insurer to provide accurate information in a clear and not misleading way. In the renewal call 
Mr H specifically mentioned a scenario of losing the ring down a drain. In these 
circumstances the level of cover the agent amended the policy to did not provide cover for 
the value of £6,000 - as the contents cover would not apply - the personal possessions cover 
would. I think this is significant and something the agent should have explained to Mr H. I 
think the response of yes was misleading here. RSA says it offered Mr H personal possessions cover but he didnt accept the quote. But I 
dont find the agent was clear enough in her explanation of the different levels of cover to 
enable Mr H to have made an informed decision. 
I think from the discussion, Mr H was left with an expectation that if the ring was lost down a 
drain, RSA would cover the value of it for £6,000. 
And having reviewed the policy wording, I dont think this clearly matched the agents 
description of cover in the call. So I dont think RSA has acted reasonably. At no stage 
during the call did the agent refer to the different levels of cover between contents and 
personal possessions. But this is how the levels of cover are set out under the policy. 
Under the policy schedule, it reads:
You've chosen contents cover. This meets the demands and needs of customers 
who need to repair or replace their home contents against specific damage and loss 
such as theft and escape of water.
The 'Important Notes' section of this schedule has information that may affect the 
cover you have chosen.
Your schedule and policy documents are evidence of your insurance contract.
No further information in relation to this type of cover is mentioned under Important Notes. 
The schedule sets out the following: 
Primary Contents cover including Accidental Damage (excluding Upgrade)
The cost to replace your contents and any high risk items as new.
High Risk Items
(High risk items are televisions, personal computers, binoculars, audio and video 
equipment, jewellery and articles of precious metal, clocks, watches, photographic 
equipment, furs, pictures, works of art, curios and collections.)
Total limit (includes any items listed below)
Single article limit
Specified high risk items - Ladies Engagement Diamond Platinum Ring £6,000
The policy schedule continues: 
Personal possessions
Single article limit
Unspecified items
(valuables, personal effects and clothing) - £1,070
Under RSAs Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), it highlights what is and isnt 
covered. It reads: 
What is insured? Contents 
Loss or damage to your contents by specific causes including fire, storm, flood, 
escape of water and theft,
Are there any restrictions on cover?
High value and high risk items such as jewellery and computers covered up to 
£7,500 in total and you must tell us if any one item is worth more than £1,000.Based on the discussion Mr H had with RSAs agent and on viewing this wording, I find it 
was reasonable for Mr H to expect the ring - in the event of it being lost in the home - would 
be covered for the stated value limit of £6,000. The IPID refers to loss or damage to your 
contents. Mr H in the renewal call mentioned a specific cause for cover such as losing the 
ring down a drain, which the agent replied yes to. 
I therefore think that RSA should meet Mr Hs claim for the lost engagement ring to the value 
of £6,000. I think its fair and reasonable for RSA to deduct the difference in premium I 
believe Mr H would have paid if RSA had more clearly explained the levels of cover in the 
renewal call from the settlement it makes. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited trading as More Than to do the following:
Meet Mr Hs claim for the lost engagement ring to the value of £6,000 under the 
personal possessions section of the policy, subject to the appropriate excess. 
Deduct the premium difference from the claim settlement that I find on balance of 
probabilities Mr H would have otherwise paid for cover in the circumstances he 
described. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman