DRN-3855296
The complaint
Mr U complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited failed to complete adequate 
repairs on his vehicle after he made a claim under his motor insurance policy.
References to Markerstudy include its agents.
What happened
In mid-2021, Mr U made a claim under his motor insurance policy with Markerstudy after an 
incident which resulted in damage to his vehicle. Markerstudy arranged for repairs to be 
carried out by its approved repairers. And it was returned to the repairers for rectification 
work. 
However, Mr U raised concerns that a steering wheel fault light was still appearing 
intermittently on his vehicles dashboard after it was returned to him. Mr U took the vehicle 
back to the approved repairers who ran a diagnostic report. However, Markerstudy says it 
was unable to determine the cause of the fault.
Markerstudy suggested Mr U take the vehicle to a manufacturers dealership or another 
garage for review. Mr U was concerned about the cost of doing this. He felt it was unfair of 
Markerstudy to expect him to pay for further tests to determine if the fault was incident 
related.  He says the fault occurred immediately after the repairs were completed. He 
thought Markerstudy should accept the information hed already provided or complete a 
thorough diagnostic to determine the cause of the fault. 
Mr U complained to Markerstudy, but it maintained its position. So, Mr U asked our service 
to consider his complaint.
Our investigator looked into Mr Us concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
The investigator thought it was fair for Markerstudy to suggest Mr U obtain diagnostics from 
a dealership, with a view to paying for diagnostics and repairs if the fault was accident 
related.
Mr U disagreed with our investigators outcome. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Us complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr U previously brought a complaint about Markerstudys handling of his claim to our service 
which has been considered separately. In this decision, Ill only be considering Mr Us 
concerns that werent addressed in his previous complaint. 
Markerstudy accepted Mr Us claim, so it is responsible for repairing damage caused by the 
accident. Mr U says the fault light on the dashboard didnt appear prior to the accident. So, I 
can understand why he believes the fault was as a result of the accident and repairs werent 
adequately completed.
 
Mr U has provided photographs of the diagnostics showing on the approved repairers 
device. However, Markerstudy says these dont show how the fault occurred, which means it 
cant determine if it was as a result of the accident and/or repairs. 
Markerstudy has provided the following comments from its vehicle damage assessor:
 This was minimal damage, repair front bumper, new nearside wing, and new rear bumper, 
we carried out a geometry check as a precaution, I cannot see this fault being related to the 
incident, warning lights are there for a reason as things do start to breakdown on a vehicle 
this car needs to go into a main dealer for a diagnostic check, the main dealer equipment 
should store any fault codes in the ECU and will possibly (not in all cases) tell us the mileage 
the fault occurred.
I think its reasonable for Markerstudy to rely on its experts opinion and this suggests the 
fault is unlikely to be related to the incident.
In the absence of any independent evidence from Mr U, I cant conclude that the fault is 
likely to be as a result of the accident and/or the quality of repairs carried out by 
Markerstudys approved repairers. 
Markerstudy has said it would be willing to reimburse Mr U for the cost of obtaining a report if 
it determined the fault to be accident or repair related. I think this is reasonable.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr U, but I think Markerstudy has acted fairly and 
reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Us complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman