DRN-2967777
The complaint
The Estate of Ms S complains about a number of problems it experienced with Santander 
UK Plc (Santander) following the passing of Ms S.
What happened
This complaint is about the mortgage in the name of the late Ms S, who sadly died in May 
2016. She died intestate and her husband was her personal representative. He was 
appointed a joint executor under the Grant of Probate in April 2017. When Ms S died, the 
mortgage balance was £209,574 and the arrears were £1,187. The last payment to the 
mortgage was made in November 2016  and the balance was then £205,918. The 
mortgage was redeemed in January 2021 with a balance of £252,040. The difference in the 
balance between November 2016 and January 2021 was made up of accrued interest. By 
the time of redemption, there were mortgage arrears of £74,342. 
The complainant here is the Estate of Ms S, and the complaint was brought to us by the late 
Ms Ss husband, who I shall refer to as Mr A. The Estate of Ms S complains that Mr A was 
told by Santander that he couldnt make payments to the mortgage after Ms S died in May 
2016, and that he was also told he couldnt put the mortgage into his own name. Mr A said 
he hadnt received any statements about the mortgage, and so he wasnt aware of the 
interest building up on it. He said the amount of interest charged by Santander by the time 
the mortgage was repaid was extortionate  and had he been allowed to make payments to 
it, either by regular amounts or by lump sum, the interest wouldve be been a lot less than it 
was.
In their first final response in December 2020, Santander said that in 2016, Mr A had been 
informed that no payments should be made until the mortgage was taken over by him or 
redeemed in full. After Mr A obtained the Grant of Probate in 2017, he had asked for the 
mortgage to be put into his name  but they declined his application as he didnt meet their 
lending criteria. Since Ms Ss death in 2016, interest accrued at about £1,000 a month, and 
that was why the balance had gone up.  Mr A contacted Santanders complaints team about 
their final response letter. 
In February 2021 Santander sent a second final response. This said that on a call to their 
complaints team, and in their first final response, Mr A was wrongly advised that he couldnt 
make payments to the mortgage. They said Santander would have accepted payments from 
him but wouldnt ask for them. They agreed they had misled Mr A on the call to the 
complaints team and offered compensation of £500 for their error.
The Estate of Ms S brought its complaint to us. Our investigator said Santander had acted 
reasonably. He couldnt find any evidence that Mr A had asked to make any payments to the 
mortgage, or that Santander had told him he couldnt do so. Santander had written to Mr A 
several times about the plans for the sale of the property and the redemption of the 
mortgage  and these letters also showed the amount of interest accruing. In one of the 
letters in March 2017, a direct debit mandate was enclosed for completion  if Mr A wished 
to make regular payments to the mortgage. 
The estate of Ms S didnt agree. It said that Santanders first final response in December 
2020 admitted that Mr A had been told that he couldnt make payments to the mortgage and 
his complaint should therefore be upheld. The offer of £500 wasnt accepted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Estate of Ms S says that Mr A was told he couldnt make payments to the mortgage; Mr 
A was told he couldnt put the mortgage into his own name; that Mr A wasnt aware of the 
debt and the interest building up because statements werent received and the interest rate 
was high.
I looked at Santanders operating processes for deceased accounts. These say that interest 
will continue to be charged until the mortgage is repaid, and responsibility for monthly 
repayments remains with any surviving party to the mortgage. And so  in this case, interest 
continued to be applied to the mortgage. Because the mortgage was in Ms S sole name 
(and not in joint names with her husband, Mr A), the responsibility for the mortgage 
repayments didnt automatically transfer to him. Therefore, in this case, it was only after Mr A 
was named as a joint representative of Ms S estate in the Grant of Probate  in April 2017  
that he could deal with the mortgage. 
Santanders operating procedures go onto say where a mortgage is in a sole name (in this 
case, the late Ms S) the beneficiary (i.e. in this case, Mr A) is not legally obliged to maintain 
the payments on the mortgage but should be made aware that interest will continue to 
accrue on the account. Alternatively, the payments can be made from the deceaseds 
estate. So  these say that Mr A didnt have to make payments. Santander told us that they 
wouldnt ask a customer to make payments in these circumstances, but if they did, it would 
be on a voluntary basis.  
Payments to the mortgage: 
Mr A says he was told he couldnt make payments to the mortgage. We asked Santander 
about this. They said they dont have a record of an appointment at a branch in 2016  as Mr 
A has claimed there was. Santander said that if there was an informal discussion, it wouldnt 
have been recorded in their records  I wonder if that may be the case here. 
Ive then considered the letter that was sent to Mr A in March 2017, Santander wrote to Mr A 
We recommend that payments continue to be made on the account and (if not already 
done) set up a direct debit. Youll find a direct debit mandate enclosed. Any payments not 
made will remain outstanding until paid. So, for me, this is clear  Mr A was told he could 
make payments to the mortgage.
In Mr As call with Santander on 18 July 2017, he said he was going to clear the arrears and 
sell another property to repay the mortgage. So, at that time  he was aware he could do 
that. Mr A has said to us that Santander refused to accept regular payments or a lump sum 
reduction  but the notes in Santanders records made at this time dont say that. I 
considered whether there were other calls that might shed more light on what happened 
during that period  and we asked Mr A for the phone number that he wouldve used to see if 
they could be located  but unfortunately, Mr A didnt provide this.
Mr A has said to us that Santander admitted in their final response that they told him they 
wouldnt accept payments to the mortgage  and so they must be in the wrong. Ive 
considered his argument. But Santander made that comment in December 2020, and were stating what they thought was current policy, and werent referring to what was, or wasnt 
said to Mr A in 2016 or 2017. Ive listened to the call on 22 December 2020 between 
Santanders complaints team and Mr A  and in it Santander stated that their policy was to 
say to customers do not make payments to the account and we wouldnt have allowed 
payments (into the account) to be made. So  the complaints team made an error in what 
they said to Mr A in December 2020  and the first final response also said the same thing. It 
said, As you are not named on the account we would confirm that no payments should be 
made until either the account is taken over and names changed, or redeemed in full. 
Santanders second final response in February 2021 said theyd made that statement in 
error and went on to say that there wasnt any evidence that Mr A was previously told he 
couldnt make any payments to the mortgage. For the mistakes that Santanders complaints 
team made in their conversation with Mr A, and in the letter that followed  they offered 
compensation of £500. But Santander didnt admit that Mr A was told in 2016 or 2017 that he 
couldnt make payments  thats a different matter. 
For me to consider an award of interest debited to the account (or part of it), I must be 
persuaded that based on the information that we have, it was more likely than not that Mr A 
was advised at that time he couldnt make payments to the mortgage. And  given 
everything Ive seen - I dont consider thats the case here.
Putting the mortgage into Mr As name: 
We asked Santander about this. They said there was a call with Mr A on 18 July 2017  
when the possibility of putting the mortgage into Mr As name was discussed. He said he 
had an income of only £17,000 a year, plus some rental income. The balance of the 
mortgage at the time was £213,514 (including arrears). And so the application didnt go any 
further. This complaint has been brought by the Estate of Ms S, and is not about Mr As 
personal matters  and so I cant comment any further on that decision.
Awareness of the debt: 
Santander told us that their policy is to stop sending statements when the sole party to a 
mortgage dies  because there isnt a named owner of the mortgage. So, I can appreciate 
what Mr A has said here. However, I can also see from the letters he was sent  that he 
must have been aware of the mortgage debt. In January 2017, Santander wrote to Mr A. 
They said the balance was then £208,783.32 and said, interest will continue to accrue. In 
March 2017, Santander wrote to Mr A and said the balance was £210,348.64, and that 
interest was being charged.  In a letter in May 2017, Santander said the balance was 
£211,925.72 and that interest will continue to be charged. In June 2017, Santanders letter 
said the balance was £212,718.66, with arrears of £10,447.68 and said, interest will still be 
charged until the mortgage is paid back in full. In July 2017, a letter to Mr A from Santander 
said there were arrears of £11,785.62.  So  there were several letters which advised Mr A 
of the balance and that interest was being added. Im satisfied the estate was kept 
sufficiently aware of the increasing balance. 
Interest rate:
We asked Santander what the interest rate was on the mortgage. It was their Standard 
Variable Rate.  When Ms S died, it was 4.74%. Between then and when the mortgage was 
redeemed in January 2021, the rate varied between 4.34% (lowest) and 4.99% (highest). So 
 the interest rates applied were Santanders standard mortgage rate. So, I think that was 
reasonable, and in line with the terms of the mortgage.I can see that Mr A and his family have gone through a lot since his wife died and hes had a 
very difficult time. But having completed a detailed review of everything that happened here, 
I am not upholding this complaint for the reasons Ive set out. I know this will be a 
disappointment. Santander offered compensation of £500 to Mr A for their error when they 
spoke to him in December 2020, and in their first final response. This isnt something our 
service can comment on  as the complaint has been brought by the Estate of Ms S, and 
Santanders offer was made to Mr A personally. But if he wishes to accept this, he should 
contact Santander.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A, on behalf of 
the estate of Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman