DRN-4179710
The complaint
Ms M complains about decline of a claim under her pet insurance policy with Covea 
Insurance plc (Covea).
References to Covea include their agents who administer the policy.
Ms M was supported by a representative when making her complaint. References to Ms M 
include her representative.
What happened
The details of what happened in this case are well-known to both parties, so Ill only 
summarise the key events here. 
Ms M had a pet insurance policy for her dog with Covea. In February 2022 she took her dog 
to a vet because it had become aggressive. The vet recommended the dog be seen by a 
behavioural specialist. Ms M contacted the specialist, who said theyd first want to rule out 
the possibility the aggression was due to neurological issues. Ms M took her dog to a small 
animal hospital to be assessed, which concluded the dog didnt have a neurological issue. 
They advised Ms M to go back to the behavioural specialist. The dog had an initial session 
with the specialist in May 2022 and Ms M submitted a claim for the cost (£300). She also 
submitted a claim for the vet consultations (December 2021 and February 2022, totalling 
£129.99) and for the assessment at the small animal hospital (March 2022, £180).
Before taking her dog to the small animal hospital, Ms M contacted Covea to tell them about 
the position with her dog and ask whether the policy would cover the cost of treatment by the 
behavioural specialist. Ms M thought Covea confirmed it would be. 
Covea considered the claims, requesting further information from Ms Ms vet (July 2022). 
Covea reviewed the information but the following month they declined the claim as they said 
the dogs behavioural issues didnt fall under the policys definition of behavioural illness, as 
there was no evidence of a mental or emotional disorder, illness or disease. Covea also 
declined the claims from Ms Ms vet and the animal hospital.
Unhappy at the time taken to assess her claims and Covea then declining them, Ms M 
complained to Covea. But they didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they 
confirmed their decision to decline the claims, maintaining the dogs behavioural issues 
didnt fall under the policy definition of behavioural illness. But Covea upheld the complaint 
about the delays in assessing the complaint and apologised for the delay.
Ms M then complained to this service. She was unhappy at being told by Covea the costs of 
treatment would be covered under the policy, but for her claims to then be declined. Shed 
incurred costs from the initial vet consultation, the assessment at the small animal hospital 
and the initial treatment at the behavioural specialist. She wanted Covea to reimburse the 
costs theyd incurred (less the policy excess) and to continue funding the treatment from the 
behavioural specialist (up to the limit in the policy).
Our investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint, concluding the dogs clinical history 
indicated the behavioural issues had emerged gradually and could have been prevented by 
training or better socialisation. The policy terms and conditions excluded claims in these 
circumstances. So, Covea hadnt done anything wrong in declining the claims.
Ms M disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint.  In disagreeing, she said theyd had two different trainers for her dog prior to 
the vet, animal hospital and behavioural specialist visits. She also provided a letter from the 
behavioural specialist, in which they disagreed with Coveas decline of the claim, saying the 
dog had a behavioural problem and it couldnt have been prevented by training.
Our investigator provided a copy of the letter to Covea, asking if it changed their decision to 
decline the claim(s). Covea said it didnt, referring to the clinical history which included a 
recommendation for referral to a behavioural specialist in August 2021. They also referred to 
the notes from the behavioural specialist from the visit in May 2022, which they said werent 
followed up. But they did say they would pay for the cost of the visits to the vet (£129.99); 
treatment prescribed by the vet (£14); and the assessment at the animal hospital (£180). But 
not the cost of the behavioural specialist (£300). 
Following Coveas response and offer, our investigator reconsidered the complaint. They 
thought Coveas offer was fair and their view remained unchanged about Covea acting fairly 
to decline the claim for the cost of the behavioural specialist.
Ms M didnt accept Coveas offer and still disagreed with the investigators view, saying the 
dog had received training and socialisation and theyd followed the vet and behavioural 
advice to have their dog assessed at the animal hospital. And there were also difficulties 
obtaining an appointment with a behavioural specialist (and long waits for an appointment).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since making her complaint to this service, Ms Ms dog has had to be euthanised due to its 
anxiety leading it to biting. I know this will have been very distressing for Ms M. My role here 
is to decide whether Covea has acted fairly towards Ms M. 
In considering whether Covea have acted fairly, Ive noted that during Ms Ms complaint to 
this service, Covea have offered to pay for the cost of the visits to the vet (£129.99); 
treatment prescribed by the vet (£14); and the assessment at the animal hospital (£180). But 
not the cost of the behavioural specialist (£300). Given Coveas offer, I havent considered 
these claims further. This means the remaining issue in the complaint for me to consider is 
whether Covea have acted fairly in declining the claim for the cost of the behavioural 
specialist (the £300).
Ms M says her dog received training in 2021 and she followed advice in having the dog 
assessed at the animal hospital (to rule out a neurological cause of the dogs aggressive 
behaviour). And there were then difficulties obtaining a behavioural specialist appointment 
(which didnt take place until May 2022). Covea say they declined the claim fairly in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions, as the dogs the dogs behavioural issues 
didnt fall under the policys definition of behavioural illness (something that could not have 
been prevented by training, socialisation or medical intervention).In considering both views, given Covea declined the claim because they say the dogs 
behavioural issues didnt fall under the policys definition of behavioural illness, Ive looked at 
the policy terms and conditions. First, the policy defines behavioural illness as:
Any change(s) to your pets normal behaviour that is caused by a mental or 
emotional disorder that could not have been prevented by training, socialisation or 
medical intervention, caused by the environment in which your pet is kept or caused 
by how your pet has been handled by you, your family or the person looking after 
your pet.
Linked to this, the policy lists those veterinary fees that are covered and those that are not 
covered.  The latter, under a heading What we will not pay includes:
10. The cost of any treatment for a behavioural illness that:
a) Could have been prevented by training, socialisation or medical intervention, 
or
b) Caused by the environment in which your pet is kept, or
c) Caused by how your pet has been handled by you, your family or the person 
looking after your pet.
From this wording, the first element is key. Having said this, Ive noted some reference in the 
report from the behavioural specialist (included as part of the claim) that mentions the dogs 
anxiety in the context of its environment immediately after it was born. However, given this 
pre-dates the key dates in the case, Ive concentrated on the first aspect.
Looking at the clinical notes for the dog, there is reference to its behaviour in August 2021 
(when behavioural training was recommended by the vet) and again in December 2021 
(when the same recommendation was made). Ms M has provided information and evidence 
of some training following the August 2021 visit (and evidence of training previously, in 
March 2021). The nature of the training after the August 2021 suggests it was more in a 
group situation, although theres also some indication of 1:1 contact (in the behavioural 
specialists report mentioned above). So, while this indicates some training after the August 
2021 recommendation, I dont think it could be considered behavioural specialist in nature. 
After December 2021, the dog was seen again by the vet in February 2022. At that point the 
clinical notes indicate no neurological deficit, but a referral for a neurological assessment 
was recommended. That was subsequently carried out at the animal hospital the following 
month. The report from the animal hospital indicated the dogs issued were likely behavioural 
(not neurological). At which point, Ms M sought to make an appointment with the behavioural 
specialist (which took place at the end of May 2022). While I can understand what Ms M 
says about the difficulty obtaining an appointment with a behavioural specialist and the long 
lead times, it does mean that apart from the training in September 2021, the dog didnt 
receive specific behavioural specialist attention until May 2022.
While the first element of the policy term set out above doesnt specifically mention treatment 
by a behavioural specialist, given this was recommended by the vet in August 2021 (and 
again in December 2021), I think it would be reasonable to conclude the term would include 
behavioural specialist engagement. Given the timeline set out above, Ive also concluded it 
was reasonable for Covea to decline the claim for the behavioural specialist cost.
My final decision
Covea Insurance plc have already made an offer to pay Ms M the cost of the visits to the vet 
(£129.99); treatment prescribed by the vet (£14); and the assessment at the animal hospital (£180). This would, as appropriate, be subject to any applicable policy excess. I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Covea Insurance plc should pay £323.99 (less any applicable policy 
excess, as appropriate).
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman