DRN-4479531
The complaint
Miss C has complained that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited, trading as Cashplus 
Bank, made errors that prevented her repaying the balance on her credit card account.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Miss C made repayments to her Cashplus account from an account with another bank 
which I will call Bank N. However in 2022, some of the repayments she was making to the 
account were rejected by Cashplus. Initially Miss C didnt take any further action because 
she thought the problem would rectify itself. However, as a result of payments not being 
made, Cashplus informed her that she was over her credit limit.
Miss C says that she contacted Bank N, and it told her that it was authorising the payments, 
but that Cashplus was then rejecting Bank Ns authorisation code. Miss C complained to 
Cashplus that the reason her payments were not being received on her account was 
because of a fault it had caused. She said that this had adversely affected her credit rating.
In response to her complaint, Cashplus stated that Miss C had exceeded her credit limit of 
£500 on three occasions since June 2021. It commented that she had regularly been 
operating the account near the credit limit, and that under the account terms, it was for Miss 
C to return the balance to within that limit. It asked Miss C to call its credit management team 
to make her next payment. Cashplus did not consider it had acted inappropriately by 
reporting account activity that led to any record being placed on Miss Cs credit file. 
However, it offered to refund two over limit fees totalling £24, as a gesture of goodwill.
Dissatisfied with Cashplus response, Miss C brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He stated that he could not see any 
authorisation codes that Cashplus had rejected when Miss C had attempted to make 
payments to her account. He also considered that Cashplus had offered suitable alternatives 
to Miss C to allow her to make payments to the account. The investigator stated that there 
were various channels available to Miss C to check her balance, so she would have been 
able to see if she was near or over the credit limit.
Miss C disagreed with the investigators assessment. She said that she had contacted Bank 
N and it had told her that it could see that her payment transactions had been cancelled from 
Cashplus side. Miss C indicated that Bank N would be providing her with evidence to show 
this. She mentioned that at times she had made payments that resulted in her account being 
in credit, and she questioned whether this had also resulted in her incurring a charge from 
Cashplus. She also reiterated her concerns about how these events had impacted her credit 
rating.
Miss C asked that her complaint be considered by an ombudsman, and it was referred to 
me. I have since asked Cashplus to provide further clarification regarding the payment 
transactions that Miss C has stated she attempted to make to the account, but which failed.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Miss Cs complaint relates to her assertion that errors at Cashplus prevented 
payments she had requested to be made to repay her credit card account being processed 
successfully.
Miss C has explained that she has been in contact with Bank N, which holds the account 
from where she was attempting to repay her Cashplus account. She says that Bank N has 
told her that the payments failed due to Cashplus actions. Miss C told us that she would be 
providing evidence from Bank N to show that Cashplus were at fault, but she hasnt 
forwarded such evidence to this service.
I must assess this complaint based on the balance of probabilities. That means that I need to 
determine, based on the evidence provided, what I consider most likely has occurred with 
the failed payments, and whether or not this suggests Cashplus was at fault.
Cashplus states that its records show there were failed payments to its account in 2022 on 1 
and 2 July, 19 July, 21 September and 27 September. It has mentioned that a reason for the 
payments failing may have been due to Miss Cs address not being verified. Further to this, 
the internal records it has provided include commentary from July 2022 where Cashplus 
indicated that the house number linked to the debit card Miss C was using to make 
payments did not match the house number which Cashplus had on file for Miss C.
I can see that Cashplus suggested other ways in which Miss C could make payments to her 
account, such as via a bank transfer. Its also clear from Miss Cs account statement that she 
was able to successfully make payments from her bank to Cashplus on 1 June, 2 June and 
13 June.
I have carefully considered Miss Cs comments about the conversations that she had with 
Bank N about the cause of the failed payments, and also her description of the problems that 
she encountered trying to make payments. I am sorry to hear of the difficulties that Miss C 
experienced, and I appreciate that she is unhappy about the implications on her credit file of 
the events that occurred. However, on the balance of evidence provided, my view is that it 
has not been shown that Cashplus was at fault for the problems Miss C had when 
attempting to pay money to her credit card account. I also cannot see that Miss C incurred a 
charge from Cashplus when her account was in credit.
Although I understand that Miss C is likely to be disappointed with my findings, my current 
view is that Cashplus has not been at fault or acted unfairly in relation to the failed payments 
that she attempted to make.
responses to my provisional decision
Cashplus confirmed that it had no further comments to make on this case.
Miss C did not respond to my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and taking into account the replies to my provisional decision, I do not 
consider that I have reason to alter the conclusions reached in that provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
John Swain
Ombudsman