DRN-1514811
 
 
The complaint
Ms H complains that Barclays Bank PLC incorrectly updated her address records to that of a 
third party. Ms H feels the compensation amount awarded by Barclays doesn't reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused, especially as this, and an earlier breach involved links to 
her ex-husband. 
What happened
Following the separation from her husband, Ms H separated the joint accounts they held with 
Barclays. In November 2017 she sold the family home and moved to a new address.
In December 2018 Ms H started to receive post from Barclays addressed to her ex-husband. 
Barclays awarded £200 compensation for its administration error. Ms H accepted this.
In March 2019 Ms H received a text message from Barclays confirming a change of address 
on her account. Ms H hadn't initiated this, so she called Barclays to find out more. She 
discovered that Barclays had incorrectly updated her address details to an address 
belonging to her ex-husband's girlfriend.  
Barclays changed Ms H's details back and confirmed no personal data had been 
compromised. It awarded £500 compensation. 
Ms H has lost faith in Barclays and as such wants to close her accounts and move her 
mortgage elsewhere. She's however unable to find a deal that offers the same interest rate. 
She wants Barclays to increase its compensation to reflect half of the additional cost she'll 
occur over the life of her mortgage. 
An investigator at our service looked into things and didn't uphold this complaint. He 
felt Barclays had acted fairly in its handling and response to the complaint. And, because 
there had been no tangible loss, didn't think Barclays needed to do more. 
Ms H didn't agree. She feels it was her, not Barclays' actions that prevented any potential 
tangible loss. She doesn't feel that Barclays' compensation reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the series of data breaches that have occurred.
Because an agreement has not been reached, this case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and whilst I appreciate 
my decision will come as a disappointment to Ms H, I think our investigator has reached a 
fair outcome. Ill explain why.Ms H has not complained to our service about the data breach that occurred in December 
2018. Whilst I can't comment on this event as part of my decision, I do understand why the 
combination of events has exacerbated matters. 
The key facts about this complaint aren't in dispute. Barclays has admitted it got things 
wrong. So the only issue I have to decide is whether the things it has done to put things 
right, including the amount of compensation its offered, is fair and reasonable.
I think its right that Barclays should compensate Ms H for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by incorrectly changing her address details. However, I also think its important to 
explain that, as a service, our awards are designed to compensate consumers - not punish 
organisations.
We look at the impact any mistakes have had on the consumer concerned and give careful 
consideration to a consumers individual circumstances, in determining whether any award 
for distress and inconvenience is warranted.
I appreciate it must have been worrying and upsetting for Ms H to learn her address had 
been incorrectly updated to that of her ex-husband's girlfriend. I appreciate this matter is 
likely to have caused her some degree of frustration and inconvenience, so I sympathise 
with her position. But I think Barclays recognised the seriousness of its mistake and this is 
reflected in the amount of compensation awarded. I say this because It's unusual for a 
business to award this amount, especially when there has been no actual breach of data or 
financial loss as a result of the error. Barclays apologised to Ms H for what happened and 
offered to pay compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused by this. 
Ive noted all the things Ms H has said about what could happen if the error was not picked 
up in time. But when considering everything, I think the compensation of £500 that has been 
offered to Ms H is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
I have decided that Barclays has been reasonable in its attempt to put things right. So I do 
not require it to increase Ms H's award for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank PLC should pay Ms H the £500.00 offered for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman