DRN-3976189
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are the partners of B.
Mr B complains that he only agreed (on behalf of B) to ALMAS INDUSTRIES UK LIMITED
(Almas) supplying and installing some equipment, under a hire agreement, on an
assurance from it that B wouldnt be tied into a minimum hire term (primary period).
What happened
In 2016 Mr B agreed (on behalf of B) with Almas for it to supply and install some equipment.
On 13 October 2016 Mr B signed (on behalf of B) a hire agreement in respect of the
equipment to be supplied and installed by Almas. At this stage it wouldnt have been known,
at least with any certainty, who the finance company would be. Indeed, the top of the hire
agreement provided by Mr B states:
The Company: we will be a finance company which is entirely separate from the supplier.
Our details will be inserted below and notified to you when this agreement is accepted.
with no details inserted below.
Under the written terms of the hire agreement Mr B signed (on behalf of B), B undertook
(everything else being equal) to pay a finance company at least 60 monthly rentals of £120,
making a minimum total repayable to the finance company of £7,200. The sum of £120 was
made up of £111.60 (inclusive of VAT) equipment rental and £8.40 (inclusive of VAT)
maintenance payment.
The hire agreement was presented by Almas to a company that I will call G, who agreed to
be the finance company party to that hire agreement. Once G agreed to be the finance
company party to the hire agreement, its details were added to the hire agreement in its (or
Almas) possession, a copy of which Ive seen.
On 20 October 2016 Mr B signed (on behalf of B) a document from Almas to confirm the
satisfactory supply and installation of the equipment.
On 25 October 2016 G was advised that the equipment had been satisfactorily supplied and
installed.
On 28 October 2016 Almas invoiced G the sum of £4,986.43 for the supply and installation
of the equipment. G paid this.
On 1 November 2016 G wrote to B to say that following the successful supply and
installation of the equipment the hire agreement was now active.
On 17 January 2020 Mr B wrote (on behalf of B) to G to say that B was likely to cease
trading in March 2020 and it would like to know how it could go about finalising the lease
and arranging return of the equipment. Mr B attached an email he received from Almas,
dated 14 October 2016, which said:
Further to our conversation yesterday I am writing this email to confirm you are not tied into
a 60 month contractAs [a representative for Almas] I can confirm this to be the case.
On 21 January 2020 G responded to Mr B to say that if he wanted to settle the hire
agreement before the expiry of 60 months then B would need to pay it the sum of £2,439.14.
On 5 February 2020 Mr B complained (on behalf of B) to G that given what Almas had said
under cover of its email to dated 14 October 2016 B shouldnt have to pay it anything for
settling the hire agreement early.
On the same day G issued B with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this FRL G
said (for reasons I dont repeat here) that it wasnt responsible for what Almas may have
advised and B was bound by the written terms of the hire agreement. This meant B was
obliged to make a minimum of 60 monthly payments to it of £120, or an early settlement sum
calculated in accordance with section 9 (b). In simple terms this meant that B could settle the
hire agreement early by paying all the future equipment rentals due under the hire
agreement (not the maintenance payments due under it) discounted by a small percentage.
Following receipt of the above FRL Mr B raised (on behalf of B) a complaint with Almas.
On 23 September 2020 Almas responded to B to say that it wasnt upholding its complaint.
And in respect of the email dated 14 October 2016 Almas said:
[the sender of the email] has left Almas Employment and therefore we cannot substantiate
any of your claims, the email picture you attached cannot be verified, furthermore email
content can easily be manipulated.
On 30 September 2020 Mr B complained (on behalf of B) to our service about both G and
Almas. Two separate complaints were set up by our service and considered in parallel to
each other.
Shortly after referring the two complaints to our service Mr B wrote (on behalf of B) to G to
say he was suspending payments to it and the equipment was available for return.
On 10 February 2021 G issued B with a default notice.
On 17 March 2021 G issued B with a termination notice and requested payment of
£1,666.43 from it.
On 17 February 2022 one of our investigators advised B that she wasnt upholding its
complaint against G.
On 15 July 2022 one of our investigators advised B that she was upholding its complaint
against Almas and that Almas should refund to B all the payments it had made to G
(together with interest) since it asked to end the hire agreement.
Almas didnt respond to the investigators view, so Bs complaint was passed to me for
review and decision.In February 2023 I issued my provisional decision on this case. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says he entered into the hire agreement (on behalf of B) on an assurance from 
Almas that B wouldnt be tied into a minimum hire term (primary period). In other 
words, Mr B says the actual terms of the hire agreement were misrepresented.
Ive found Mr Bs submissions in this respect to be both plausible and persuasive,
particularly in the light of the email he has provided Almas and our service which 
states Further to our conversation yesterday I am writing this email to confirm you 
are not tied into a 60 month contractAs [a representative for Almas] I can confirm 
this to be the case.
Now I note that Almas says that it cant substantiate the email supplied by Mr B and 
the content could have been manipulated. But Im not persuaded by this submission 
given the email address from which this email was sent ends in exactly the same 
format as the email address Almas has asked us to use when corresponding with it 
about this complaint.
So, in summary, I find that the terms of the hire agreement were misrepresented by 
Almas.
Having found that that the terms of the hire agreement were misrepresented by 
Almas what I now need to decide is what Almas should have to do, if anything, to 
fairly and reasonably compensate B.
Having considered what Mr B has said and submitted, Im satisfied that if Almas 
hadnt misrepresented the terms of the hire agreement he (on behalf of B) wouldnt 
have entered into it.
Now I cant put B in the position it would now be in had the terms of the hire 
agreement not been misrepresented, this being the normal remedy in cases of 
misrepresentation. So, I think that what Almas should have to do to fairly and 
reasonably compensate B is to:
refund any payments made by B after January 2020 (the date Mr B [on behalf 
of B] tried to cancel the agreement) together with interest
settle any outstanding liability B might have with G under the agreement
do its best to get G to remove any adverse information it may have recorded 
with one or more third party credit reference agencies in respect of the 
agreement
pay Mr and Mrs B (as the partners of B) £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience this whole matter has caused them
Almas didnt respond to my provisional decision and Mr B responded (on behalf of B) to 
accept it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As Mr B responded (on behalf of B) to accept my provisional decision and Almas didnt 
respond to it (by the date I gave for the same) I can confirm I see no good reason to depart 
from my provisional findings and I now confirm them as final.
My final decision
My final  decision is that ALMAS INDUSTRIES UK LIMITED must:
refund any payments made by B after January 2020 (the date Mr B [on behalf of B]
tried to cancel the agreement)
pay B interest on each refunded payment above at 8% simple a year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement*
settle any outstanding liability B might have with G under the agreement
do its best to get G to remove any adverse information it may have recorded with one
or more third party credit reference agencies in respect of the agreement
pay Mr and Mrs B (as partners of B) £200 for the distress and inconvenience this
whole matter has caused them
*If ALMAS INDUSTRIES UK LIMITED believes its legally obliged to deduct tax from
this interest it should send a deduction certificate with the payment
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman