DRN-4268669
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt process a payment.
What happened
On 23 December 2022, Mr T and Mrs T instructed three online payments to redeem three 
Buy To Let (BTL) mortgages with lenders. The instructions were sent to Santander at around 
11.40. Two were made (for £536,727.25 and £351,386.68). But the third one (for 
£351,386.15) wasnt made until 29 December 2022  six days later.
Mr T and Mrs T complained. They said Santander shouldve made the payment on 23 
December 2022, but didnt. They said Mr T had spoken to Santander on 24 December 2022 
and was then told it would be sent on 28 December 2022  but it wasnt. Mr T then called 
Santander again on 29 December 2022, when he was told he needed to set up a new 
payment  which he did, and the payment was sent on that day. 
Mr T and Mrs T say they paid additional interest of £218.28 on the BTL mortgage for six 
days. And lost savings interest of £114.72  as they had to withdraw the money from a 
savings account on 23 December 2022, and had they known that the payment wouldnt be 
made until 29 December 2022, they wouldve left it in the savings account until then. They 
said they should also be compensated another £400 for the calls, stress and hassle they 
experienced.
Santander apologised. They said Mr T and Mrs T had received a poor standard of service. 
The payment shouldve been processed at an earlier stage, but wasnt. They paid six days 
debit interest incurred on the mortgage (218.28) - but declined to pay the lost savings 
interest. They paid compensation of £200 for the inconvenience of Mr T having to call 
several times.
Mr T and Mrs T brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said Santander had done 
enough to settle the complaint. Santander had admitted they made mistakes in not 
processing the payment and had paid the debit interest incurred and compensation of £200. 
So he said theyd put Mr T and Mrs T back in the position they wouldve been in had the 
errors not occurred. Had the payment been made, the savings account wouldnt have 
earned the credit interest. The payment of £200 was in line with what our service expected 
to see.
Mr T and Mrs T didnt agree. They said Santander had caused a loss of savings interest  as 
if theyd known the payment wouldnt be made, they wouldnt have withdrawn the money 
from the savings accounts. And  during the period of six days, they argued the money sat 
with Santander (i.e. it wasnt in the savings account, nor had it been sent to the lender). So  
they said Santander had benefited from having the money for six days. On the matter of 
compensation, they said they had to contact Santander many times over the Christmas 
period and had the stress and worry of what happened over that time. They said Santander 
should pay more to learn from their mistakes. They asked that an ombudsman look at their 
complaint  and so it has come to me to do that.
I then issued a provisional decision which said:
The crux of this complaint comes down to a decision on a fair level of award for what 
happened, and I think Santander should do more here.
Santander admitted they made three mistakes. Firstly, the payment shouldve been made on 
23 December 2022, and wasnt. It should then have been made on 28 December 2022 and 
wasnt. And it was then made on 29 December 2022, but as an additional payment arranged 
on the phone  which wasnt needed.
We asked Santander why the first payment didnt take place. They told us that the one-time 
password wasnt received until after the CHAPS cut off at 17.35. I dont understand that  as 
the payment was instructed that morning. 
When Mr T then called Santander on 24 December 2022, he was told the payment would be 
made on 28 December 2022  but it wasnt. So - this was an error.
Santander told us the payment wasnt made on 28 December because it was stopped  as it 
was a very similar amount to one of the other payments (i.e. within 58p). So  they assumed 
the payment was duplicate. But it wasnt  so this was an error. But  Mr T and Mrs T 
werent contacted about that. And I think it wouldve been reasonable that they were  given 
the amount of money involved.
Then, when Mr T called again on 29 December 2022  he was asked to set up a new 
payment again. Santander said that wasnt needed  so that was an error.
Mr T made seven calls to Santander on 24 December 2022 and 29 December 2022  
totalling 79 minutes (not including wait times to get through). I listened to the calls, and each 
time Mr T had to replay what had happened and the need to get the original payment 
processed. I didnt hear a consistent reason given as to what had happened and why the 
payment instruction didnt take place. 
Ive considered what would be a fair award of compensation for this. The amount of money 
involved was significant, and I must take that into account. It also happened over the 
Christmas period  and the inconvenience would also have been increased as a result. And 
Mr T and Mrs T had made arrangements to redeem the BTL mortgage with the lender on a 
stated day. 
So  because of the delay, they had to send additional amounts of daily interest to the lender 
so the right amount could be credited to the account. This was an additional task needed. So 
 Im persuaded that it is reasonable that Santander pay an additional £200. Mr T and Mrs T 
also paid a fee of £25 for the CHAPS payment, and this should also be refunded  as the 
payment wasnt made as instructed.Mr T and Mrs T say Santander should pay more to encourage them to improve. But - we are 
an informal dispute resolution service which seeks to come to fair decisions where there is a 
complaint from a consumer about a financial business, based on the individual 
circumstances of it. Our role isnt to punish firms. Nor are we the regulator of Santander  
thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Ive then considered the claim for lost savings interest. Mr T and Mrs T argue that the money 
was neither with the lender (to repay the mortgage), nor in their savings account (as theyd 
withdrawn it on 23 December 2022). So, they say they lost out both ways. I appreciate what 
they say. But  the principle of our service (and indeed any firm dealing with a complaint)  
is to put a customer back in the position they wouldve been in had the errors not occurred. 
And here  that means the mortgage wouldve been repaid on 23 December 2022, and the 
savings account also debited with the money on that day (as it was). So  the mortgage 
interest wouldve stopped on 23 December 2022; and the savings interest reduced from the 
same day. As it was, the mortgage interest continued for another six days, and Santander 
have paid that  so Im not asking them to pay the savings interest as well, for the reasons 
Ive described.
In summary, my provisional decision is that Santander should pay additional compensation 
of £200 and refund the CHAPS fee of £25.  
Responses to the provisional decision:
Santander agreed. Mr T and Mrs T accepted the compensation award but also said:
They should be reimbursed the lost savings interest of £114.72.
Santander had profited from their mistakes as they had the use of the money for six 
days.
So  Santander should also be put back in the position they wouldve been in  and 
pay the savings interest.
I now need to consider these points and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr T and Mrs T have argued and appreciate the points theyve 
made. But I return to the principles I set out in the provisional decision  this services role is 
to put consumers back in the position they wouldve been in had the errors not occurred. 
And  thats what this decision does. Its not our role to look at the impact on Santander.
But  in any case, I dont think it is reasonable to say that Santander have profited from the 
mistakes  as they paid the debit interest on the BTL mortgage (£351,386.15) for six days.
For these reasons, my final decision is the same as the provisional decision.(continued)My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc should:
Pay compensation for distress and inconvenience of £200 (in addition to the £200 
paid).
Refund the CHAPS fee of £25.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask  to accept or reject 
my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman