DRN-4057179
The complaint
Mrs G has complained about the way Helvetia Global Solutions Ltd (Helvetia) have settled a 
claim she made under her furniture warranty for damage to her armchair. 
What happened
Mrs G purchased her armchair, as part of a set, in January 2021. At the same time, she took 
out a warranty to provide cover in the event the armchair suffered accidental damage or 
staining. 
In late September 2022, Mrs G noticed that her armchair had suffered a tear in the middle of 
the base cushion. She made a claim on the warranty for the damage.
On 4 November 2022, Helvetia wrote to Mrs G about her claim and explained that they were 
experiencing ongoing challenges with their supply chains due to COVID-19 which might 
cause a delay in providing her with a replacement part. They also explained that it is 
important to note that over time the colour, shade and appearance of your furniture will 
change, therefore when new parts are ordered, they will be supplied based on the original 
appearance of your furniture, as in most cases, parts are made to order. They said that 
wherever possible they will try to limit and differences, but the policys liability is to complete 
repairs based on the original specification of the furniture item. 
A technician was sent by Helvetia to the property to fit a new cover on the armchair on 
20 December 2022. However, Mrs G said the colour didnt match. She considered the 
sample to be beige, not grey and charcoal  the colour of the armchair. The technician said 
that the armchair was two years old, and the fabric could have changed colour during that 
time. The technician returned the cover to the supplier along with samples of each fabric 
colour from the armchair. The supplier then returned the new cover to Mrs G, together with a 
letter that explained it was the correct colour and should be fitted. However, Mrs G disagreed 
and said the armchair should be replaced or refunded. 
On 19 January 2023, a second technician attended the property to carry out the repair, but 
Mrs G didnt allow him to do so because she still wasnt happy with the colour. She also felt 
that the new seat cover had a leather finish, whereas the finish and feel on her armchair was 
a suede finish. 
Mrs G complained to Helvetia about the way her claim was being progressed following the 
visit from the second technician. She received their final response on 30 January 2023. 
Helvetia said that the new cover had been compared to swatches of fabric from the armchair 
that had been taken from an area that is not exposed to usage and the environment so more 
closely represented the original appearance of the furniture. They said that particular 
comparisons showed the new cover is a very close match and the fabric provided was 
correct. Helvetia explained there was a slight difference but that was to be expected as the 
replacement cover is new and the existing cover has been exposed to environmental factors 
over the last two years worth of use. They said that over time any slight difference would 
diminish. Helvetia also said it would be impossible for a business to provide a perfect match 
because it would be impossible to source a cover that had experienced the same conditions. 
Believing theyd acted in line with the policy terms and conditions, Helvetia didnt uphold Mrs 
Gs complaint.
Unhappy with Helvetias response, Mrs G brought the complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into what had happened and issued her view not upholding the 
complaint. She said that having reviewed all of the available information, she thought 
Helvetia had offered a reasonable replacement seat cover in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Mrs G didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision on 
her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted by the parties that the damage is covered by the policy. However, it is the way 
Helvetia has proposed to settle the claim that is in dispute. In coming to my decision on this 
complaint Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, which say, in paragraph 6, 
Claims Process: 
Valid claims will be settled by cleaning, repairing or replacing the damaged product. If a 
repair can be made, it must be considered prior to a replacement being considered. Neither 
the value of repairs or replacement shall exceed the maximum liability. 
Over time the colour, shade and appearance of your product is likely to change and 
therefore in the event new covers are required we will supply parts based on the original 
appearance of your product. Wherever possible we will try and limit any differences but our 
liability is to repair the product based on the original specification. 
So, Helvetias decision to repair the armchair rather than replace it, was in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. And the terms also clearly set out that an exact colour match 
wasnt guaranteed. 
As the terms and conditions dont provide for a refund to be paid where an exact colour 
match cant be provided, Ive next gone on to consider whether or not it would be fair to 
require Helvetia to refund the price Miss G paid for the armchair to her. And Ive decided it is 
not. I will explain why. 
In an email sent to Mrs G by Helvetias claim manager on 4 November 2022 they said:
The sample obtained from your furniture has been sent to the manufacturer. They will use 
the sample to check their stock and will select the batch which is the closest colour match to 
the sample provided. All new batches of fabric are subject to variations due to the processes 
during the manufacture of the textile and dyeing of the fabric. When fabric parts are 
replaced, the surrounding parts may appear to be a different shade. This is because the new 
parts will be from the most recent batch of fabric. Please note over time, the colour of your 
furniture will change with the effects of use, sunlight and in particular, dye transfer. The 
replacement parts will be ordered in line with the terms of your warranty.
Helvetia believed the colour was within manufactures tolerances, and they explained that the 
images taken by technician due to the cameras resolution, had not picked this up. They also 
said that new parts will have a shinier appearance which probably gives the illusion of being 
beige. On reviewing the other information provided, in relation to the furniture model that Mrs G 
purchased, I note that while the seat covers have beige stitching, none of the colour options 
offer beige as part of the colour combination. As our investigator explained, the colour of the 
armchair, as detailed on the original sales invoice was anthracite/dark grey and that was 
the same description used throughout Mrs Gs claim on the relevant documentation relating 
to the replacement seat cover. 
And while the photographs provided indicate a slight variance in colour, I agree with our 
investigator that the replacement cover seems likely within the tolerances referred to in the 
evidence. Also, I find Helvetias explanation of why the colour of the fabric in the 
photographs likely appeared more beige than the actual colour of the replacement seat 
cover to be persuasive.
In considering whether Helvetias actions in settling Mrs Gs claim are fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances I have thought about whether Mrs Gs request for a replacement 
armchair, or a full refund are reasonable. Having done so, I dont think they are. Helvetia 
have carried out a number of checks and re-checks to ensure that the replacement part 
offered is as close in colour as the original was, and having reviewed the photographic and 
other evidence I dont think the difference in colour is such that it would require Helvetia to 
take any additional steps to settle the claim. I therefore dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman