DRN-2006626
The complaint
Mr O complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) have not provided sufficient compensation for a mis-sold loan.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr O, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I was sorry to hear about Mr Os situation. I understand that BPF have accepted they mis-
sold his car finance to him and that this complaint is therefore about the redress thats been 
provided and the concern that the Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) would not have 
had to have been entered into had Mr O not received the credit.
the redress provided
I think BPF have been reasonable here. Theyve refunded payments, added interest at the 
appropriate percentage, told the IVA administrators what has happened and removed the 
loan from Mr Os credit file.
I would have expected BPF to provide some compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused but theyve explained that instead of providing compensation they 
simply waived the charge they would have made in respect of the fair usage Mr O had from 
the car. 
Its only fair that Mr O pays for some of the use he had from the car. Ive considered the 
amount I would have asked BPF to provide in compensation against the amount I would 
have suggested they retain for fair use and having done that I think their decision to waive a 
fair usage charge and not provide compensation has compensated Mr O fairly.
the IVA 
I understand that Mr O thinks he would not have needed to enter into an IVA if it had not 
been for the mis-selling of this particular loan. 
But its clear Mr O had multiple debts and that hed lost his job not long after the agreement 
started and Im not persuaded there is therefore sufficient evidence that, if it were not for the 
credit provided by BPF, Mr O would not have needed to enter into an IVA.
And regardless, its clear that Mr O was experiencing some financial distress independent of 
the credit provided by BPF and I think its conceivable that other debts would have had a 
significant impact on his ability to get credit elsewhere. 
BPF have removed details of the credit they provided from Mr Os credit file. I understand 
that the IVA remains but that will be the case as it services other unrelated debts as well.
So, Im not asking BPF to take any further action. I think that, overall, the redress they have 
provided has been fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman