DRN-4149846
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about Santander UK Plc (Santander) relates to an application they 
made for a new mortgage product with a better rate of interest, in January 2022. That 
application, they say, was handled badly by Santander leading to financial loss, distress, and 
inconvenience.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G were going through a divorce and at that time their finances were tight. Mr G 
had left the family home and was living elsewhere. At the relevant times he and his wife 
communicated through their respective solicitors. Their fixed rate had ended and moved to 
the standard variable rate (SVR), an increase of 2.09%.
On 18th January Mr G rang Santander and explained the then current position. He provided 
his new address and sought advice and information about reducing their monthly payments. 
The advisor told him that he could move to a mortgage tracker product which would reduce 
the monthly payments significantly. Mr G made the application for that product that day, and 
when he received the application forms in the post he signed and returned them.
Mr G said Mrs G didnt receive any documentation to sign, but Santander said it was sent to 
her at her address. As Mrs G didnt return the documentation Mr G had to complete a fresh 
application on 26 February. New documentation was sent then for both Mr and Mrs G, but to 
Mr Gs address. He then sent the documents for his wife to his solicitor for forwarding to his 
wifes solicitor. and in turn to her. Santander have accepted that when they updated Mr Gs 
address they also mistakenly changed Mrs Gs address details to those of Mr G.
When Santander corrected this address error, Mrs Gs documentation was sent her correct 
address on 11 April, and she subsequently completed and returned it. Santanders interest 
rate change did not come into effect until 4 June, however.
Santander accepted that they caused delays to the application process and paid Mr G 
£592.28 in compensation to reflect the additional fees charged by his solicitor in having to 
deal with the matter on his behalf. Santander also paid £150 in compensation to reflect the 
stress and inconvenience it had caused. However, it didnt agree to compensate Mr and 
Mrs G for the additional interest they had to pay caused by the delay in securing the better 
rate. 
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with Santanders final response and so approached this service 
to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that there had 
been poor service by Santander and the amount of compensation paid had been insufficient. 
He thought Santander should also compensate Mr and Mrs G for the additional borrowing 
costs between 26 February and 11 April when they were paying the mortgage at the SVR 
rather than the better rate they switched to. 
Santander agreed with our investigators view and also that it should pay interest at 8%, but 
Mr and Mrs G didnt, and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of both sides views and Ive looked at the issues raised and considered 
all the available evidence. Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely 
to have happened in the light of the evidence which is available. I issued my provisional 
decision on 24 April and only Mr G replied confirming there was nothing further he wished to 
say. My provisional decision therefore remains unchanged.
Santander have accepted they made a mistake. However, they dont accept that the initial 
documentation sent out to Mrs G following Mr Gs call on 18 January was sent to the wrong 
address. They have produced copy correspondence showing it was sent to her correct 
address. Subsequently correspondence was sent to Mrs G at Mr Gs new address, which 
was an error, but Mr G has not said that the initial documentation was sent there. So, whilst I 
cannot say that Mrs G definitely received the initial documentation, I have to accept on the 
evidence that it was sent to her. It follows that Santander have not made an error in this 
respect since they cannot be responsible for the postal system.
However, on 26 February a second application was submitted by Mr G and on this occasion 
the documentation for Mrs G was sent to the wrong address causing delay to the application 
process until 11 April when Mrs G eventually received it. 
Mr G has argued that because the rate didnt change until 4 June, Santander should be 
responsible for the increased mortgage costs to that date. I accept that there was some 
delay caused when Mr G had to forward documentation to his solicitor for onward 
transmission to his wifes solicitors, but by 11 April, Mrs G had the documentation in her 
possession. So, from that date, I dont accept that there was any delay on the part of 
Santander in processing the application.
Putting things right
Santander has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that re-imbursed Mr Gs 
solicitors costs. They have also agreed to refund the difference in interest between the SVR 
rate and the rate which Mr and Mrs G now have, which I am told amounts to £831.79. On top 
of that they agree to pay 8% interest. In relation to these elements of compensation I think 
Santander have acted fairly. The full solicitors costs have been re-imbursed and they have 
agreed to pay interest for the period of delay which I find they were responsible for. 
The only outstanding issue is the level of compensation for the distress and inconvenience. 
Santander have paid Mr and Mrs G with £150 and as Mr and Mrs G dont think that is 
enough to put matters right, Ive given this some further thought. When this service 
considers what an appropriate level of compensation might be, we consider a variety of 
factors, including the trouble, upset, distress and inconvenience that may have been caused. 
We categorise awards and examples of these can be found on our website.
There are two potential categories of award I think are relevant to this complaint; the first An 
award .. of up to £300. This is usually applicable when an error has caused frustration and 
annoyance more than you might reasonably expect from day-to-day life, and the impact has been more than just minimal. This is often where there have been repeated small errors, or a 
larger single mistake, requiring a reasonable effort to sort out  and the impact is usually one 
that has lasted a few days, or even weeks, causing either some distress, inconvenience, 
disappointment, or loss of expectation.
The second is An award...of up to £750. This is usually applicable when the impact of a 
mistake has caused considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant 
inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. Typically, the impact 
lasts over many weeks or months, but it could also be fair to award in this range if a mistake 
has a serious short-term impact
The issue for me therefore is what is a reasonable amount of compensation. In this case 
both Mr and Mrs G were inconvenienced, although I accept that it seems that Mr G was the 
party spending more time on the application and complaint. I dont doubt Mr G has spent a 
lot of time dealing with the matter, but compensatory payments are not directly linked to the 
time a person has spent. The error on Santanders part is in failing to correctly update 
Mr and Mrs Gs different addresses. That caused correspondence to be sent to the wrong 
address and caused some delay. It was not however responsible for the entirety of the delay 
which I have found to be some 6 weeks. Accordingly, I do feel that the offer of £150 is too 
low and should be increased to £400. I recognise that Santander UK Plc have already paid 
pay Mr Gs solicitors costs of £592.28, which I do not disturb. Had it not been paid then I 
would certainly have said it be so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc shall;
(a) calculate, and pay to Mr and Mrs G the additional cost to them as a result of having 
to pay their mortgage at the SVR rate between 26 February 2022 and 11 April 2022
(b) pay interest at the rate of 8% on the sum calculated at para (a) above from 
26 February 2022
(c) pay Mr and Mrs G £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman