DRN-3866931
Complaint
Mr G has complained about a loan Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) provided to him. He says 
Bamboo did not carry out sufficient checks and this led to him being provided with an 
unaffordable loan.
Background
Bamboo provided Mr G with a loan for £5,500.00 in November 2021. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 48 monthly instalments of just over £185.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr G and Bamboo had told us. She thought that 
Bamboo hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr G unfairly. So she didnt recommend that 
Mr Gs complaint be upheld. Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Gs complaint.
Bamboo needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Bamboo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr G 
could afford to repay before providing him with this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Bamboo provided Mr G with a loan for £5,500.00 in November 2021. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 48 instalments of just over £185. Bamboo says it agreed to Mr Gs application 
after he provided details of his monthly income and some information on his expenditure. It 
says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out and all of this 
information showed Mr G could afford to make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr G has said he wasnt in a good financial position at the time. Hes said 
he applied for this loan at a time when his hours had reduced at work and after hed already 
applied for a loan with another provider a couple of months earlier.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr G and Bamboo have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Mr G was asked to confirm the amount he paid towards 
credit repayments each month. And the output from Mr Gs application appears to indicate 
he only paid £39 a month to his existing credit commitments. So I think its fair to say that   
Mr G didnt disclose the repayments to his existing loan.
That said, bearing in mind the circumstances of the lending here, I dont think that it would 
have been reasonable and proportionate for Bamboo to simply have relied on what Mr G 
said. Bamboo didnt simply rely on what had been told by Mr G though as it carried out a 
credit search on him. 
Bamboo has provided a record of the results of its credit search. And the loan Mr G has 
referred to and which I accept he took out in August 2021, doesnt show in these results. I 
appreciate that Mr G says that it does appear on other searches hes carried out with other 
credit reference agencies. 
Its possible this might be because Mr Gs other provider didnt report to all credit reference 
agencies at this time. But the precise reasons for this dont matter too much because whats 
most important here is that as the loan didnt show up in Bamboos search, it couldnt have 
known about this. What this search did show was that Mr G had little in the way of existing 
debts and that what he did have was relatively maintained. So the credit search supported 
the income and expenditure information that had been provided and reinforced the notion 
that Mr G was in a reasonably stable financial position. 
I accept that Mr Gs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information Bamboo obtained. For example, I know that 
Mr G has said that he was on reduced hours at work. Equally I accept that if Bamboo had 
gone into the depth of checks Mr G appears to be saying it should have  for example by 
going as far as requesting and considering bank statements  it may have reached a 
different answer, although weve not been provided with clear evidence this was the case. 
In any event, the key thing here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances 
here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate 
checks would have extended into the level of checks Mr G is suggesting. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Bamboo did anything wrong when deciding to lend to  
Mr G - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Bamboo treated Mr G unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr G. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint, I would remind Bamboo of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration should Mr G be experiencing difficulty and it 
choose to collect payments from him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman