DRN-1879512
 
The complaint
Miss K complains that TSB Bank Plc wont refund a disputed transaction she didnt 
authorise. And they unfairly added a default to her credit file. Shed like the money refunded 
and the default removed. 
What happened
In 2016 Miss K had an account with TSB Bank. 
On the 30 June 2016 a transaction of £79.67 was made using Miss Ks debit card for an 
airline ticket via a company Ill call F. Just over a week earlier on the 20 June 2016 Miss K 
had carried out a genuine transaction to F.   
This transaction took Miss K into an unarranged overdraft. TSB says they attempted to 
contact Miss K both via letter and telephone, but werent successful. And the account 
defaulted before being passed to debt collectors. 
In July 2017 Miss K received contact from debt collectors regarding the debt. And she made 
contact with TSB to dispute this. 
TSB looked into her dispute  but they didnt think there was sufficient evidence to indicate 
fraud had occurred. 
Miss K wasnt satisfied with TSB's response and complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ks complaint. Initially he concluded that he didnt 
think Miss K authorised the transaction and therefore the transaction should be refunded and 
the default removed from Miss Ks credit file. TSB didnt agree with our investigators 
conclusion and submitted further evidence  including details of attempts made to 
contact Miss K on her mobile phone. On the basis of the new evidence our investigator 
thought that Miss K most likely authorised the transaction and the default had been recorded 
fairly. So he didnt think TSB needed to do anything further. 
Miss K didnt accept our investigators second opinion. She explained that TSB had initially 
told her theyd been emailing her to get in contact, but now they were saying they tried to 
phone her? Miss K also questioned why see would buy the airline ticket and then say she 
didnt. 
As Miss K didnt accept the view its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, TSB can hold Miss K liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that she made or authorised it herself. 
TSB havent been able to provide the technical evidence for how the transaction was 
authorised, due to the length of time that's passed since it was carried out. But I think its 
likely the transaction was correctly authorised via entering of the long card number on the 
telephone. But the relevant regulations, Payment Service Regulations 2009, say this isnt 
enough for TSB to hold Miss K liable for the transaction. I also need to think about whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss K consented to the transaction 
being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for TSB to conclude that Miss K 
authorised the disputed transaction. I say this because:
Miss K didnt identify the disputed transaction until July 2017  some 13 months after 
the transaction was carried out. Miss K explains that she previously notified TSB 
about her change in address but they didnt update their systems. I think its possible 
this did happen  but Im satisfied its more likely than not Miss K didnt notify TSB 
about her change in address. I say this because I find it surprising that she didnt 
notice failing to receive paper statements between September 2014, when she 
moved to her new address, and the 30 June 2016 when the disputed transaction 
occurred. Miss K advises she was receiving online statements - but if this was the 
case I think it's surprising Miss K didn't notice the disputed transaction and 
overdrawn balance sooner. 
TSB have provided evidence they attempted to contact Miss K on numerous 
occasions via her mobile phone, but the number didnt connect. Miss Ks questioned 
whether TSB attempted to contact her via phone, but Im satisfied based on the 
evidence they did. Miss K informed our investigator that her mobile phone had been 
stolen earlier in 2016, but was unable to provide any evidence of this, and she 
changed her number prior to the disputed transaction. For me to think that Miss K 
wasnt aware of the disputed transaction Id have say that on balance TSB had 
neither her correct address or phone number  and I think this seems unlikely. 
Miss Ks last genuine transaction was on the 28 June 2016. I find it surprising that 
between the 20 June 2016 and the 28 June 2016 Miss K carried out 10 transactions 
 including a £50 withdrawal leaving her with a balance of £4.72. But after this failed 
to check her balance or attempt any further transactions for over 13 months. 
Miss K explained she spoke with F and they informed her the airline ticket was 
purchased in her name  it seems odd a fraudster would purchase an airline ticket in 
the name of the cardholder. 
 
Ive gone on to consider whether the default was recorded fairly by TSB. And I realise this 
will be disappointing to Miss K, but I think it was. Ive explained why I think Miss K authorised 
the disputed transaction and it follows that she should have been aware her balance was 
likely overdrawn. But for the default to be fairly recorded I need to be satisfied that TSB 
made sufficient efforts to contact Miss K about the debt and notify her that a default would be 
recorded on her credit file if payment wasnt made. Unfortunately due to a change in their IT 
system TSB have been unable to provide me with a copy of any of the letters sent to Miss K 
 but Ive seen details from TBSs case management system which shows four letters were 
sent to Miss K during September and October 2016, and a final reminder on the 
18 October 2016. Miss K says she advised TSB about her change in address but for the 
reasons Ive outlined above I think on balance Miss K most likely didnt do this. Im also satisfied that TSB made numerous attempts to contact Miss K via phone to chase payment 
for the overdraft. 
Taking everything into account, I find, on balance, that Miss K authorised the disputed 
transaction, and TSB made sufficient attempts to notify her about the overdrawn balance. It 
follows that TSB is entitled to hold her liable for the disputed transaction, and they dont need 
to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2020.
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman