DRN-1679368
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy that Mr W took out in 2000 with a credit card through the 
post. 
Our adjudicator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. Mr W didnt agree with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Tesco have provided a copy of the application form which Mr W completed and signed for 
his credit card. Theres a section on this form dealing with PPI and I can see that Mr W has 
ticked a box in this section to confirm that he wanted to take this cover. In another section of 
the form, Mr W could have chosen to take cardholder cover but doesnt appear to have done 
this. So, from what Ive seen, I think that Mr W actively decided to take the PPI knowing he 
could choose not to. But this sale took place a long time ago, so I would understand it if 
Mr W wasnt able to recall this now.
Ive noted what Mr W has said about the PPI policy being strongly recommended on the 
application form. But I still dont think this was an advised sale by Tesco. I say this because 
this was a postal application and theres no evidence to suggest that Mr W discussed the 
suitability of the policy for him with a member of Tescos staff. And it doesnt look like Tesco 
advised him to take out the policy having looked into - or had knowledge of - his specific 
circumstances at the time. This means that Tesco didnt need to ensure that the policy was 
suitable for Mr W. But it did still need to give Mr W enough information for him to decide if he 
wanted to take the PPI policy. I think the information which Tesco gave Mr W could have 
been better than it was. But I dont think better information would have changed his mind 
about taking it. I say this because:
 
Mr W appears to have been eligible for the policy.
 I can see that the PPI policy didnt cover pre-existing - and some other - medical 
conditions. Mr W says that he had a pre-existing injury and he wouldnt have bought 
the policy if it had been made clear to him at the time that he couldnt claim on the 
policy if this caused him to have time off work. Mr W says he had to take some time 
off work when he sustained his injury and he continued to have a weakness caused 
by the injury thereafter. And I can see from the medical records Mr W has provided 
that, in 2013, he consulted his doctor about a medical condition which may have 
been caused by this injury. Mr W also thinks he may have had some time off work in 
2013 because of this condition. But this consultation was some twenty years after his 
original injury. And the injury doesnt seem to have caused him to consult a doctor or 
take time off work in the thirteen years before he took out the policy. So, having 
carefully considered all the information available to me, I dont think Mr W would have 
been put off buying the PPI policy, even if hed been fully aware that the injury he 
sustained some years earlier wasnt likely to be covered if it caused him to take time 
off work. I think hed still have thought the policy would have given him useful 
protection if hed not been able to work for a whole range of other reasons.
 
Mr W says he didnt need the policy because he would have received very generous 
sick pay from his employer. But he hasnt been able to provide any strong evidence 
to show that he had a clear entitlement to this level of benefit from his employer. He 
also says he thinks he had some savings, although he doesnt recall the amount or 
other details about these. And he says that he could have relied on his parents for 
financial support in need. But Mr W chose to take the PPI, so it seems that he valued 
the sort of protection it provided. And the policy would have paid out in addition to his 
other means. It would have covered him for up to twelve months if he wasnt able to 
work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment, together with giving him 
some life cover. And it would have provided him with greater security than relying on 
relatives for this support. So I still think he would have thought the policy gave him 
useful additional cover if things went wrong.
 
Ive no reason to think the cost of the policy was unaffordable for Mr W. And as its 
premiums were paid monthly, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his needs.
                        
Ive thought carefully about the reasons Mr W has given for still thinking he was mis-sold the 
PPI policy. This has included the examples he has given of complaints which have been 
upheld by this Service, where the circumstances giving rise to the uphold appear to have 
some similarities to his own circumstances. But I must judge each complaint I look at on its 
own merits. So, the fact that complaints with some apparent similarities to Mr Ws have been 
upheld by this Service, doesnt mean that Mr Ws complaint should also be upheld.  
From what Ive seen, I still dont think that Mr W has lost out by anything that Tesco may 
have done wrong when it sold him this PPI policy.
This means Tesco doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. 
But Tesco Bank does have to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:
 
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because Tesco didnt tell Mr W, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium.     And I think that is fair in this 
case.         
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal Finance PLC doesnt have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back 
to Mr W any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
So, if it hasnt already paid this back to Mr W, Tesco Personal Finance PLC should now 
update its offer and pay this to Mr W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman