DRN-3283160
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited restricted its 
accounts in August 2021 resulting in missed payments and it not being able to access funds. 
What happened
S said it found out in August 2021 that three mortgage payments due hadnt been made. It 
couldnt access its account and had to open a new one. It needed the funds and complained 
it didnt have access to the money urgently.
Advanced Payment Solutions said that in March 2020 there had been a number of declined 
payments using the card on the account. It accepted that it hadnt done enough to contact S 
to discuss whether it had attempted these at the time. As a result, the card on the account 
wasnt replaced when it expired in April 2021. And the account was restricted 90 days later. 
It spoke to S early in August 2021 and a new account was opened on 10 August 2021. It 
says it told S that to obtain access to the money in the other account the director would need 
to provide certified verification. And it repeated this in a final response and refunded the 
account fee of £69 to reflect the service issues.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and that in addition to the 
refund S be paid £150 for the inconvenience caused and that any fees for missed mortgage 
payments be refunded. She said that Advanced Payment Solutions should have contacted S 
following the restriction. She accepted that the final response referred to the need for 
certified documents, but that S had still been affected.
Advanced Payment Solutions didnt agree. It said that S had been told on 11 August 2021 
what documents were required and it could obtain a copy of this call if we required. The final 
response states this too and this could have been completed very quickly if the documents 
had been received.
S also mentioned that the director had posted a certified proof of address at the end of 
August 2021. Shed been told that this would take 10 days to upload. It had been received 
by mid-September and added to the new account. But by 6 October 2021 she said it still 
needed to be reviewed against the old account before the money could be released.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint on 21 December 2021. I set out below 
what I said.
Having looked at all of the background information here I was unclear why the account 
needed to be restricted in this way. If there was a concern about fraud in March 2020 no 
action seemed to be taken to resolve this. And Advanced Payment Solutions accepts it 
should have done more to contact S and deal with this. Instead the account continued to 
operate and since then the substantial cash balance was built up. In addition, the case notes 
from Advanced Payment Solutions state that in November 2020 a know your customer 
exercise was completed for S with no issues. 
The expiry of the card triggered a 90-day period before the account was restricted. S wasnt 
using the card but operating the account through transfers, so it was unaware of this. I 
couldnt immediately see any reference to that always happening in the terms and conditions 
of the account. And effectively the account was going to be all but closed and S was given 
no notice of this. The terms and conditions state that the notice period would normally be 
not less than two (2) months (Section 15.5) except in circumstances of real concern say 
about fraud which given what Id said I couldnt see fairly applied by April 2021. 
S was offered a new account and didnt seem to need to provide certified copies of 
documentation for this. It started to receive income that had previously been paid into the 
restricted account. And I could see it used that money to make a manual payment to the 
mortgage company with which it has it seems three mortgage accounts. So I was struggling 
to see what the concern about it accessing this money was when the account terms and 
conditions state under 15.6 that if an agreement had been cancelled only that we may need 
to (a) verify your identity to return any account balance.
S oughtnt to have been in this position. Either the issue with the card should have been 
resolved in 2020 or at least when a review of the account was undertaken. Or if not it ought 
to have been given in my view at least two months notice of the restriction. It could in this 
time have reasonably responded to any requests for information or made alternative banking 
arrangements and transferred funds elsewhere if it needed to. Its not a matter for this 
service to set out what any review processes should be. But this period would have allowed 
Advanced Payment Solutions reasonably to carry out any due diligence and make its 
requirements clear to S. Instead the existing account was restricted without notice. And as 
Advanced Payment Solutions almost immediately offered S a replacement account when the 
issue was highlighted I couldnt see the intention really was to end the customer agreement 
or stop S having access to these funds resulting in missed mortgage payments.
putting things right
I needed to think about how S should be compensated for what happened. I wanted to make 
clear that I was only considering S which is a separate legal entity to the director and so I 
couldnt consider her distress.
No card set up fee had been charged to the old account in April 2021 as had happened in 
previous years. So, the refund of that annual fee of £69 due for the new account is 
compensation for S.
But I took into account the additional inconvenience caused of having to deal with the parties 
that paid in and debited money from S account and explain what happened. And as I say I 
didnt think S should have been in this position. So, I considered that the inconvenience and 
reputational impact for S should be recognised with a payment of £350.
I agreed with our investigator that S should be compensated for arrears fees to the 
mortgages. I said it would be helpful as part of its response to this provisional decision if S 
set out exactly what these finally were with evidence. I appreciated that Advanced Payment 
Solutions said that things ought to have been sorted out very quickly. In its terms and 
conditions, it refers to this normally taking within 30 days (Section 15.6). And S has 
provided information that this hasnt happened here even after documents were submitted. I 
took the view that any arrears fees from a period of two months after the account was 
restricted ought fairly to be refunded. This allows for the period of notice I thought S ought to 
have had.
It will be helpful as part of any response if the current position regarding access to these 
funds is now confirmed and Advanced Payment Solutions may want to give any further explanation as this is relevant to ensuring S is now put back in the position it ought to have 
been in.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advanced Payment Solutions said that S had still not provided acceptable proof of address. 
It had been told it needed this both for the new and old accounts. It said that any refund 
delays had been caused by S as it had provided a clear explanation of its requirements and 
referred S to its website which sets out a list of acceptable documents. It said that on the 
basis that S had caused the delays since August 2021 it wanted me to reconsider the level 
of award.
S said that the old account was still frozen. It had obtained a bank statement and had this 
certified by its accountant at around the end of October 2021. And this was sent separately 
for the old and new accounts as S understood Advanced Payment Solutions wanted. It was 
then told that this must be an original document, and this didnt make sense if it wanted this 
to be certified. S had asked for a further copy from the directors bank and these hadnt yet 
been received. 
It said that the key issue was its money of over £30,000 and the impact on its mortgages and 
the money that it owed. In addition, the properties involved needed repairs and there were 
builders bills. It was difficult for S to access other money from overseas. And it said that the 
mortgage company was calculating the penalty due which it said affected six mortgages not 
three. And it has had to declare a history of arrears. S wanted to know if I could order 
Advanced Payment Solutions to transfer the money from the old account to the new one. It 
said that the source of funds was very clear. Or Advanced Payment Solutions should pay the 
mortgages on its behalf while it requests further documents.
my assessment
Advanced Payment Solutions hasnt disagreed with any parts of my interpretation of its 
terms and conditions in my decision. Or about how the account came to be frozen. It has 
clarified that the certified proof of address is required on both accounts and that was 
something S also seemed to be aware of.
I need to make clear to S that having taken into account the circumstances of the complaint 
that I decided it ought to have had two months notice of any restriction to the account. That 
would have either given it time as I said to make other arrangements, move funds or provide 
the necessary evidence. Im not looking at what has happened after that two-month period 
as part of this complaint. Having looked at the statement for the old account I can see that 
payments werent made after 1 August 2021. So, in my assessment S reasonably had until 1 
October 2021 as a period to deal with the request. It established a new account. And I 
consider it had the opportunity to clarify what was required. So, Im not looking at the impact 
of what happened after 1 October 2021 in this complaint. And I wont be making an award 
for ongoing arrears fees after that or the subsequent impact on the mortgage. I think S had a 
reasonable opportunity to address things. If it has new complaint points about what 
happened after 1 October 2021 then it would need to raise these first with Advanced 
Payment Solutions.
Having said all that I had hoped that by the time I issued this decision the issue would have 
been resolved. But as I said before the processes of Advanced Payment Solutions are for it 
to define. And S has had a reasonable opportunity to meet those requirements. So, I wont be in a position to require Advanced Payment Solutions to release any money.
So, my award reflected inconvenience again in that two-month period and not beyond. I see 
no reason to reduce that compensation as Advanced Payment Solutions wants me to.
Id asked for details of the arrears fees as Id hoped to quantify that amount. This again must 
cover fees in the period only  to 1 October 2021. It is arrears fees and not interest. And these 
fees ought to have been notified by writing to S and relate specifically to any missed 
payments up to 1 October 2021. I see no reason why S wouldnt have that now and it will be 
required to submit clear evidence with its response to this complaint when it decides whether 
to accept my proposed resolution or not. Without this no payment for this element will be 
possible.
For these reasons I wont be making any change to the award and this final decision is now 
the end of our process about this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
to:
1) Pay S £350 in compensation in addition to the fee refund of £69.
2) Pay S the amount of any mortgage arrears fees S can show resulted from missed 
payments and were incurred only in the period of two months after the account was 
restricted.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman