DRN-2217006
The complaint
Ms W doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which she was discharged 
when her protected trust deed came to an end.
What happened
RBS sold Ms W PPI with four loans. Recently, Ms W contacted RBS to complain that the 
policies were mis-sold. On 17 June 2020, RBS wrote to Ms W to say all four policies were 
mis-sold. It offered to refund the money shed paid for PPI with simple interest at 8% per 
year.
Below, Ive explained how much compensation was payable for each policy (after tax):
Loan ending 7426: £102.92
Loan ending 0131: £441.96
Loan ending 5188: £543.47
Loan ending 4215: £2,280.15
In total, Ms W was owed £3,368.50 (after tax).
However, Ms W granted a trust deed  which I assume became a protected trust deed  for 
her creditors in July 2009.
A protected trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in 
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and her creditors, which is 
administered by a trustee. The consumer transfers her property to the trustee, who has the 
power to collect and realise assets, and distribute the estate among creditors according to 
their respective rights and preferences. The right to compensation for a mis-sold PPI policy 
is, as an asset, usually vested in  or transferred to  the trustee for the benefit of the 
creditors. A trust deed will invariably include provisions relating to the discharge of the 
consumer from her debts, the restoration to her of any surplus and the discharge of the 
trustee.
Ms W owed RBS £28,794.78 when she granted her trust deed, and it received payments 
from her trustee totalling £2,807.71. So Ms W still owed RBS £25,987.07 when she was 
discharged from her trust deed.
RBS has kept Ms Ws PPI compensation to reduce this debt.
Ms W doesnt think this is fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to 
take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The relevant law in this case is Scots law.
In a case very similar to this complaint, the Inner House of the Court of Session held that a 
business couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which she 
was discharged when her trust deed came to an end. The case is called Donnelly v Royal 
Bank of Scotland [2019] CSIH 56. And the Supreme Court refused permission to appeal.
However, when the business learned it had lost its appeal, it asked the Outer House of the 
Court of Session  in Royal Bank of Scotland v Donnelly [2020] CSOH 106  to set aside or 
undo the consumers discharge. This would re-open the trust proceedings and allow it to 
assert its right of set-off.
The court held that the trustees failure to pursue the PPI claims for the benefit of the 
consumers creditors was clearly a mistake. As such, the court said it could and usually 
would set aside the consumers discharge  unless there were exceptional circumstances 
which would make it inconvenient and unjust. In that case, the court concluded that there 
were exceptional circumstances and refused to reverse the consumers discharge. It took 
into account a number of factors, including: the time that had passed since the consumers 
discharge; the duration of, and misery caused by, the protracted litigation; the fact that the 
outstanding sum was paltry from the businesss perspective (and in proportion to the legal 
fees likely to have been incurred) but not an insignificant sum for the consumer; and, that 
there would be adverse consequences for the consumer and no obvious means to alleviate 
them.
What does this mean for Ms W?
Simply put, on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are the 
same as those in this case, RBS couldnt plead set-off in court unless the court first set 
aside Ms Ws discharge. And, of course, the court may decide not to do this.
That said, I must apply an over-arching test of whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case.
And I think its fair for RBS to use Ms Ws PPI compensation to reduce the money owed and 
left unpaid when her trust deed came to an end.
When two people  or a person and a business  owe each other money, it seems only fair 
that they each pay what they owe.Fortunately, I dont need to worry about the practical and procedural difficulties of reversing 
Ms Ws discharge. Shes been discharged from her trust deed. Nothing I say will change 
that.
Ms W says she didnt ask for this  she says RBS contacted her. However, when she first 
referred her complaint to our service, Ms W told us shed instructed a claims management 
company to complain about the mis-sale of PPI on her behalf. Im therefore satisfied that 
Ms W instigated this.
As her trust deed came to an end years ago, Ms W doesnt think its fair for RBS to keep her 
PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which shes been discharged. Ms W has chosen to 
revisit something that happened before she granted her trust deed  the sale of PPI policies 
in 1998, 1999 and 2000. I think its only fair that I take into account whats happened since. 
Ms W owed RBS almost £26,000 when her trust deed came to an end. Her discharge 
relieved her of liability but it didnt extinguish the underlying debt. I simply dont see how it 
would be fair to tell RBS to pay Ms W around £3,300 when she owed and didnt repay 
almost £26,000.
Whats more, if the trust had been administered without error  if Ms Ws trustee hadnt 
made the mistake of discharging her without first pursuing the PPI claims  RBS would have 
been able to assert its right of set-off and keep her compensation.
 
Finally, Ms W says she called RBS a number of times on her mobile phone, incurring 
additional costs, and RBS staff gave her conflicting information. Ive read the letters RBS 
sent Ms W  and I think they make it clear that RBS intended to keep Ms Ws compensation 
to reduce the money owed and left unpaid when her trust deed came to an end. And Ms W 
knew she could refer her complaint to our service if she was unhappy  which she did. I 
dont know what, if any, conflicting information was provided. But overall, Im satisfied that 
RBS made its position clear. And yet Ms W chose to use her mobile phone to call RBS as 
often as she did. In the circumstances, I dont think RBS needs to refund any additional 
costs that Ms W has incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use Ms Ws 
PPI compensation to reduce the money owed and left unpaid when her trust deed came to 
an end.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman