DRN-3751022
The complaint
Ms C complains about her broker, Bollington Insurance Brokers Limited (Bollington). Ms C is 
unhappy at what she considers to be harassment from Bollington at the time of renewal of 
her insurance policy.
This decision covers Ms Cs complaint to this service made in May 2022 about how 
Bollington contacted her on multiple occasions about renewal of her home insurance policy 
in March 2022. It doesnt cover issues in separate complaint raised by Ms C to this service.
What happened
Ms C had an insurance policy taken out through Bollington. The policy was due for renewal 
towards the end of March 2022, and Ms C received an email earlier in the month inviting her 
to renew the policy. Ms C told Bollington the same day she didnt want to renew the policy, 
which Bollington acknowledged two days later.
However, Ms C received a further renewal email five days after the acknowledgement and 
three phone calls about the renewal. As she had already told Bollington she didnt want to 
renew the policy, she told them not to contact her any further. However, she received further 
renewal emails on each of the following three days, together with two letters by post. She 
received a further renewal email on the three following days, together with two further letters 
by post. She then received a further two letters two days after the previous renewal email, 
followed by three further letters shortly afterwards.
Unhappy at receiving emails, calls and letters when shed told Bollington she didnt want to 
renew her policy, Ms C told them she considered their continuing to contact her to be 
harassment which was unwanted and unwelcome. She said it caused her emotional distress 
and meant she was reluctant to answer her phone, open emails or check her post thinking it 
could be from Bollington. Given this, she complained to Bollington.
In their final response to the complaint, Bollington apologised for the inconvenience caused. 
They said they hadnt ignored her request to not contact her, but on investigation it appeared 
there had been an IT issue leading to a system error that failed to prevent the automatic 
issuing of renewal letters. While their IT team had removed Ms Cs email details from their 
system, this hadnt stopped renewal letters being emailed or issued by post. Bollington 
accepted theyd failed to meet Ms Cs expectations and apologised for not being able to 
prevent the automatic issue of renewal letters. In recognition of the inconvenience and upset 
caused, Bollington offered £70 in compensation.
Ms C complained to this service. She said Bollingtons behaviour constituted harassment 
which she found stressful and unsettling. Shed also had the inconvenience of having to 
send a cease and desist notice to Bollington asking them to stop contacting her. She 
wanted compensation for the inconvenience shed suffered from the multiple contacts shed 
received. She didnt think the £70 offered by Bollington was sufficient for the stress and 
inconvenience shed suffered. She also wanted assurance about the future security of her 
personal information held by Bollington. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding there wasnt any evidence to show 
Bollington had deliberately harassed Ms C and theyd said the reason for the continuing 
renewal letters being sent was an IT system problem they were working to correct. While the 
service provided by Bollington was poor, he thought the £70 compensation theyd offered 
was fair and reasonable. 
Ms C disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. She said the investigators view hadnt taken account of the volume of letters, 
messages and shed had to make daily contact with Bollington asking them to stop the 
communication (nor the time it took for Bollington to stop the letters). She also thought any 
IT issue could have been fixed immediately. She also felt the issue was linked to a separate 
complaint shed made about Bollington to this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to reassure Ms C that I appreciate what shes told us about the impact of 
receiving multiple renewal letters when shed told Bollington she didnt want to renew her 
policy and asked them to stop contacting her. Unsolicited and unwanted emails, letters and 
calls can be very frustrating. Picking up one of Ms Cs points, Ive taken account of the 
number of letters, emails and calls Ms C received (from the timeline of events shes provided 
as part of her complaint). Ive borne this in mind when deciding whether Bollington have 
acted fairly towards Ms C.
The key issue in Ms Cs complaint is that by continuing to send her renewal letters by email 
and by post (in addition to calls) Bollington harassed her, causing distress and 
inconvenience, both in terms of stress and the inconvenience of having to contact them to 
stop the letters. For their part, Bollington say they didnt ignore Ms Cs request to stop 
sending letters, but IT issues meant they couldnt prevent the automatic sending of the 
letters (by email and post). 
In looking at the issue, Ive also considered what Ms C has told us about how Bollington 
treated her. I know Ms C feels Bollingtons actions constituted harassment under the 
Protection from Harassment Act 1997. But this service provides an informal dispute 
resolution service for consumers bringing complaints against regulated financial services 
businesses. It cant make a finding on whether an act or omission is contrary to law, only a 
court can do this. However, Ive considered what Ms C has said when considering whether 
Bollington acted in a fair and reasonable way. 
Coming back to the key issue in this case, Ive considered both views carefully, together with 
the available information and evidence to support those views. Ive concluded Bollingtons 
explanation is reasonable (though I appreciate the impact the system error had on Ms C). 
Use of IT systems to generate automatic renewal letters and follow up letters is common 
practice in the insurance industry. But while those systems are useful for insurers (and 
brokers) in operating their business, when they dont work as they should it can have a 
detrimental impact on a consumer, as is the case here. Ms C says any IT issue can be fixed 
immediately. While I can understand why she thinks this (and that stopping the automatic 
issue of emails and letters would be straightforward) I dont agree, IT issues by their nature 
can be difficult to resolve, even if they may appear simple.
In this case, Ms C made Bollington aware she didnt want to renew her policy, which they 
acknowledged. At that point, I would have expected Bollington to take steps to prevent 
further renewal letters being sent, as they say they did (but the system error meant didnt happen). Having made clear her decision not to renew the policy, there would be no reason 
for Bollington to [deliberately] continue sending the letters, which would also have meant 
incurring costs of doing so. And from the timeline of events provided by Ms C, it appears the 
issue was with renewal letters sent by email and post. While three calls are mentioned 
shortly after Bollingtons acknowledgement, there dont appear to be any calls subsequently 
(which would be consistent with the issue being with automatically generated letters). 
Having come to this conclusion, Ive considered what Bollington have done to put things 
right. Theyve explained the reason for the renewal letters continuing to be sent and 
apologised for the distress and inconvenience. Theyve recognised the poor service Ms C 
received and offered her £70 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. Taking 
account what happened and the circumstances of the case, I think the compensation offered 
is fair and reasonable. 
My understanding is that Bollington have not yet paid Ms C the £70 compensation theyve 
offered (pending the outcome of her complaint to this service). However, given my 
conclusion that the compensation offered is fair and reasonable, Bollington should pay Ms C 
the compensation theyve offered.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Ms Cs complaint.  
As set out above, Ive concluded the £70 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
offered is fair and reasonable. Given my understanding Bollington Insurance Brokers Limited 
have not yet paid Ms C the compensation theyve offered, they should pay Ms C the 
compensation theyve offered
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman