DRN-3286126
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited held her fully responsible for 
an accident after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy. Mrs D is represented in 
this matter by a family member, Mr D. 
What happened
Mrs Ds car and another car collided in icy conditions. A witness provided a statement and 
held the weather responsible. Advantage initially thought it would try and settle the claim as 
50/50 split liability. But it thought the witness statement was unreliable as it had incorrectly 
described the damage to the cars. Advantage didnt think it could defend Mrs D. So it 
accepted full liability on her behalf.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Advantage hadnt fairly decided that Mrs D hadnt left sufficient stopping distance between 
the cars. But she still thought Advantage had reasonably considered all the available 
evidence and reached a decision in keeping with this. She thought it was entitled to do this 
by the policy terms and conditions. She thought Advantage had correctly told Mrs D that the 
outcome for her premium would be the same whether the claim was settled as split or full 
liability.
Mr D replied that he thought the other car had run into Mrs Ds. So he couldnt understand 
how the other driver was regarded as innocent. Mr D and Mrs D provided further 
representations to support their stance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs D feels frustrated that she has been held at fault for a collision she 
thinks she didnt cause, and this will now affect her premium. The incident occurred when a 
car in front of Mrs D lost control in icy weather. I can see that Mrs D has explained that she 
didnt brake at the time as she wanted to avoid skidding. But she said she had sufficient 
traction to manoeuvre into the right hand lane and so drive past the other car. Unfortunately, 
the two cars then collided as the other car was still out of control.  
The other driver said Mrs D had tried to overtake her car. But they collided. The other 
drivers insurer alleged, in short, that Mrs D hadnt done enough to avoid or prevent the 
collision. Mrs D thought she had been treated unfairly by Advantage which held her fully at 
fault. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mrs D the same as someone else in her position. 
Advantage is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mrs D to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mrs D has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term 
in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a 
commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
before making its decision on liability. 
Mr D wanted me to explain what had happened to cause the damage to the cars and led to 
Mrs D being held fully at fault by Advantage. And Mr D provided a representation in which he 
raised a number of concerns about how Advantage investigated the claim. And I have 
considered these. 
Ive also considered Mrs Ds concern that Advantage held her at fault before investigating 
the claim. I can understand that this must have been upsetting. But I think this isnt now 
relevant as Advantage later further considered the evidence fully. 
The evidence that Advantage had to consider was the drivers versions of events, the 
damage to the cars, and a witness statement. It was one drivers word against the others. 
Advantage thought the witness statement was inconclusive as he didnt fully describe the 
damage, possibly due to a blocked sightline, and he didnt hold either driver at fault. 
So Advantage thought it couldnt prove that the other driver had been at fault. And, based on 
how similar claims had been settled by the court, it accepted full liability and recorded a fault 
claim against Mrs D. 
Our Investigator thought Advantage hadnt shown that Mrs D hadnt left sufficient stopping 
distance between the cars. And I agree that this hasnt been established. But, I still cant see 
that Advantage had any evidence with which to defend Mrs D. And, as Mrs D was behind the 
other car, Advantage still thought a court would decide that the onus was on her to take 
more care, such as by leaving enough stopping room in case of emergencies, taking into 
account the road conditions. 
Advantages decision wasnt that the other driver was innocent, as Mr D has said. But that 
it couldnt prove that the other driver had done anything wrong that would lead a court to find 
her at fault. And the fault on Mrs Ds record doesnt mean that she was to blame for the 
accident, but that Advantage wasnt able to recover its outlay for the claim. The fault would 
have the same impact on Mrs Ds premium whether it was 100% or 50% liability. 
So I think Advantage investigated the claim fairly and reasonably. I think it then reasonably 
decided that it couldnt defend Mrs D if the matter proceeded to court. And so it decided to 
accept liability in full. I think its entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. So I 
cant say it did anything wrong in this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman