DRN-2652777
The complaint
Miss L has complained that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) gave her 
unaffordable loans. 
What happened
Miss L took four instalment loans from Mr Lender between July 2016 and October 2017. A 
summary of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us by Mr Lender, can be 
found below:
Loan Date TakenDate 
RepaidNo. of Monthly 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedMax Monthly 
Repayment
1 25/07/2016 19/10/2016 6 £250.00 £103.66
2 16/11/2016 28/02/2017 6 £700.00 £340.10
3 03/04/2017 28/09/2017 6 £650.00 £238.33
4 12/10/2017 28/03/2018 6 £600.00 £221.60
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Ls complaint. He didnt think Mr Lender was wrong 
to provide loans 1-3 based on the information it gathered about Miss Ls circumstances. 
But the adjudicator thought that further checks were warranted by the time loan 4 was 
granted, considering this was Miss Ls fourth loan, without any significant breaks between 
her loans. This led the adjudicator to review Miss Ls circumstances using her bank 
statements. But after doing so, the adjudicator was unable to conclude that loan 4 was 
unaffordable for Miss L.
Mr Lender agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Miss L disagreed and told us that she was struggling and her bank statements showed 
multiple payments to online betting websites. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time these loans were provided. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss L could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr 
Lender should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for Miss L. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Ls complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time these loans were 
provided.
Loans 1-3
When Miss L applied for her first loan, Mr Lender asked her to declare her monthly income 
and expenditure, and it completed a credit check. Miss L declared that she had a monthly 
income of £1,600 and her monthly expenditure amounted to £1,148. This left Miss L with a 
disposable income of £452. The highest monthly repayment for loan 1 was £103.66, to be 
repaid in six monthly instalments. So, I think the loan repayments appeared affordable based 
on the information Miss L provided to Mr Lender.
Mr Lender also completed a credit check. The results of the credit checks showed Miss L 
was not subject to an IVA or a bankruptcy arrangement. And there was no other adverse 
information present which suggested Miss L couldnt meet her contractual repayments. So, I 
dont think it was unreasonable that Mr Lender decided to lend.
Miss L went on to apply for her second loan around four weeks after repaying loan 1. She 
declared her monthly income remained at £1,600 and that her weekly expenditure had 
decreased to £1,033. This would have left Miss L with a disposable income of around £567 
from which to meet the repayments of no more than £340.10 a month. 
There was no adverse information as a result of the credit checks Mr Lender completed. 
Whilst Miss L had requested a larger loan amount compared to her previous loan, I still think 
the repayments would have appeared affordable to Mr Lender. 
Miss L applied for her third loan, around a month after repaying loan 2. Miss L declared her 
income remained the same and that her expenditure was now £1,201. The loan repayments 
for loan 3 were no more than £238.33, so I think Miss L had enough disposable income to 
meet them. Furthermore, there was nothing in the information Miss L provided or the information that Mr Lender gathered from the credit checks which suggested Miss L could 
not afford or sustain the repayments she was committing to make.
For loans 1-3, I think Mr Lender was entitled to rely on the information Miss L provided about 
her circumstances. I havent seen any information which makes me think it needed to verify 
what Miss L was telling it about her circumstances. So, I dont think Mr Lender was wrong to 
approve loans 1-3.
Loan 4
Miss L applied for her last loan two weeks after she repaid loan 3. Mr Lender completed the 
same level of checks as it had for her previous three loans. Although it seems that the 
capital amount Miss L was borrowing was decreasing, she was still committed to repaying 
around £221 per month for an additional six months, after already being indebted to Mr 
Lender for over a year. 
So, I think at this stage of the borrowing relationship, Mr Lender ought to have completed 
more comprehensive checks. Mr Lender couldve done this a number of ways, it couldve 
asked to see copies of Miss Ls wages lips and or bill. Or, it couldve, as Ive done here, 
asked to see copies of her bank statements. This wouldve given Mr Lender an accurate 
picture of Miss Ls full financial position at the time the loan was approved.  
Ive thought very carefully about what the bank statements show for the period leading up to 
the final loan being approved. And, in this case, Im not convinced that had Mr Lender 
reviewed some or all of Miss Ls bank statements that it wouldve come to the conclusion 
that the loan was unaffordable. 
Firstly, Miss L had declared her income was £1,600 per month and I can see in the month 
before the loan was approved, she received around £1,400 in salary. However, I can also 
see that Miss L received benefits and tax credits. This has the effect of increasing Miss L 
income to around £2,800 per month, which was significantly greater that Mr Lender believed. 
In addition to this I can see that at some point in the past Miss L mustve experienced some 
difficulties because I can see a number of repayment plan payments to at least three 
different debt collection companies for around 10 different accounts  these payments came 
to around £15 per month. 
I can also see a number of direct debts that Miss L was paying each month for things such 
as other loans, credit cards, catalogue shopping and other regular payments I can see, 
which came to just above £1,000 per month. 
Miss L has said that she was struggling and I can see there are regular transactions to a 
number of gambling sites on her bank statements. But, even if you include all the 
transactions that Miss L was making in the month before the loan was approved, and taking 
into account what Mr Lender may have found out above, it wouldve thought that 
Miss L had sufficient disposable income. 
It is of course possible that, had Miss L continued to borrow, it may have reached a point, 
where the lending was no longer suitable, but this wasnt the case, and for whatever reason 
she stopped borrowing after loan 4. So, taking everything into consideration, Ive just not 
quite seen enough to say that further checks wouldve prevented Mr Lender from providing 
Miss L her final loan.I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Miss L, but I do hope the reasons 
Ive given as to why I cant uphold her complaint have helped her understand why Ive 
reached the decision I have.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman