DRN-3248758
The complaint
Mr C complains Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk
(MoneyBoat) didnt help him when he told it he was having difficulties repaying the loan.
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this 
in italics and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr Cs complaint concerns a loan of £200 that was given to him on 1 September 2020. The
credit agreement says that Mr C was due to make a total of four payments each month
between September and December 2020. Mr C was due to make three repayments of
£77.11 and one final payment of £77.09.
Mr C contacted MoneyBoat at the end of the September 2020 to say that he may struggle to
make the repayment he was due to make because of having COVID-19 symptoms as well
as being behind with his priority bills. Over the following months there were several other
obstacles that Mr C faced, which meant he couldnt pay the contractual repayments that
were due. It looks like Mr C agreed to pay MoneyBoat £10 per month through a payment
arrangement.
Based on the statement of account provided to this Service by MoneyBoat, as of August
2021, Mr C still owed £137.11.
It doesnt look like MoneyBoat issued a final response letter to Mr C detailing the outcome of
his complaint. But it did tell this Service, when it provided its file that Mr C  will need to
discuss any repayment options with our collections department directly
Our adjudicator didnt think MoneyBoat had done anything wrong. She could see that
Mr C had been in regular contact with MoneyBoat about his situation and had at one time
asked for any interest that was due to be paid on the loan to be removed.
She concluded that while MoneyBoat couldve granted Mr C a payment deferral holiday she
didnt think that Mr C had been treated unfairly because it agreed for him to repay this loan
through a repayment plan. She reiterated that an outstanding balance remained, that
needed to be paid, and that MoneyBoat had an obligation to treat Mr C fairly.
MoneyBoat hasnt responded to the adjudicators assessment.
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In response he said that he wasnt happy
with the outcome because he thinks MoneyBoat made a mistake.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
The issue for me to decide is whether MoneyBoat made an error with how it has dealt with
Mr C when he notified it of his difficulties.
I want to make it clear, that Ive not listened to every telephone call provided to us by
MoneyBoat. It is because I dont consider it necessary to do so. Instead, Ive thought about
what Mr C told MoneyBoat at what point int time, what MoneyBoat did do and what it
couldve done.
Having looked at this case, I do think MoneyBoat has made a mistake in the way it initially
dealt with Mr C. But, given the long-term nature of Mr Cs repayment problems I dont think
even if MoneyBoat had done what it was required to do, that Mr C wouldve been in any
different position compared to where he finds himself now. Ive explained why below.
Before Mr Cs first monthly repayment was due, he contacted MoneyBoat to explain that
hed struggle to pay it  this call took place on 24 September 2020. He explained that he had
been off work for with COVID symptoms which meant that hed not earned as much as he
was expecting. And he had priority bills that needed to be paid on a reduced income.
Mr C did the right thing here, he knew there would be a problem making the first instalment
and so he called MoneyBoat for advice, to see what help and support it could offer. But, 
Mr C did confirm that from the next week, he was returning to work. So, it wouldve been 
clear to MoneyBoat that this was a short-term issue that would likely be resolved quickly.
After speaking with the agent, she agreed for Mr C to pay a reduced amount of £27.50 with
the remaining £50 to be added on to the end of the loan agreement. Mr C appears to be
satisfied this with outcome. Mr C makes the payment of £27.50 as agreed.
However, on this call the agent does say that the payment cant be deferred. But I do think,
given the guidance that has been issued by the industry regulator  the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA) that MoneyBoat couldve offered Mr C a one month payment holiday.
Ive taken a look at the FCAs website, and it says  under Coronavirus: information for
consumers with personal loans, overdrafts and other forms of credit
Payment holidays
Until 31 March 2021, you can apply for a payment holiday under the Payment
Deferral Guidance.
A full payment holiday (also called a freeze or deferral) is a period of time agreed
with your lender when you dont have to make any payments. A partial payment
holiday is when your lender lets you make reduced payments for a period of time.
Payment holidays are designed to help you if you youre finding it hard to make
payments, in this case because of coronavirus.
In this case, by the end of September 2020, Mr C told MoneyBoat that he was having
problems making his repayments purely because he was isolating because he had
symptoms of Coronavirus. But is worth noting that the FCA said the following;
However, its important to remember that:when your payment holiday ends, youll still have to pay back what you owe
interest will continue to build  unless your lender has told you otherwise  so your 
repayments may increase after the holiday
if you take a payment holiday, you will likely end up paying more in the long term
If your financial position improves, you can avoid extra costs by paying what you can.
So, it is arguable, whether at this point, instead of asking Mr C to make any repayment that
MoneyBoat shouldve offered the deferral  in this case for 1 month. But equally Mr C
wouldve needed to have been aware of the above when returning to full payments.
In this case, instead of making the payment of £27.50 (which he did), Mr C wouldnt have
had to make any repayments but wouldve had to discuss brining the account up to date with
MoneyBoat after the period of the holiday.
I am therefore minded conclude, that while offering Mr C a reduced payment wasnt
unreasonable, MoneyBoat ought to have really offered the payment holiday. However, due
to the type of loan Mr C had he wouldve only been able to benefit of this for one month.
And what unfolded in the following months has led me to conclude, that while MoneyBoat
ought to have done more, he hasnt found himself in a materially different position to where
he finds himself today. Ive explained why below, with reference to some of the calls that Mr
C had with MoneyBoat.
At the start of October Mr C contacted MoneyBoat to tell them he now had to isolate
because his wife had returned from abroad. He says he wasnt going to be paid for this
period because he had already taken all of this holiday. This meant Mr C wasnt going to be
in a position to make the contracted repayment of £77.11. Instead, Mr C agrees to pay £20
on his next repayment date. The statement of account provided, shows this payment was
made.
At the end of November, Mr C tells MoneyBoat he has now been put on furlough, he is
behind on priority bills and his wife isnt working. So, it seems by now, that while Mr Cs
finances were being further hit by the pandemic, it looked like it would be a longer term
problem, given that Mr C had initially told MoneyBoat of the financial problems caused by the
pandemic two months prior.
And as Ive said, the COVID deferral payment wouldve only provided immediate short-
term assistance for Mr C for one month. So, at this point, I think it was reasonable that 
there was a conversation with Mr C about his circumstances. At the end of November, it 
appears a £10 payment plan was agreed, but only for two months, because the call notes 
says;
l not be looking to extend £10 any further than 2 months and will have to 
increase
But Mr C appears to understand that he ought to call back two months later to discuss a 
way forward. Again, Mr C makes this payment as agreed.
It wasnt until December 2020 that Mr C formally asked for a payment deferral plan this was 
needed because he had rent arrears at this point. MoneyBoat declined this. And its arguable 
that this wouldve been too late, given he had significant arrears on the account already. At 
this point in time, MoneyBoat declined the deferral and it seems the call ended with the £10 
per month plan still in place even though Mr C said this amount was unlikely to be 
affordable. So MoneyBoat, initially agreed a plan that it knew may not have been affordable
for Mr C. I dont consider that to be treating Mr Cs fairly.
But, even then, looking at the what FCA says a deferral may have been appropriate at this
time, but again, Mr C wouldve only been entitled to one-month deferral, after which timeMoneyBoat wouldve expected the payments to return to normal (if they could). If they
couldnt then it wouldve needed to consider the tailor supported guidance and be mindful of 
the Consumer Credit Sourcebooks (CONC) requirements for how a lender may approach
treating someone in repayment difficulties.
From December 2020 I can see that Mr C and MoneyBoat have been in regular contact. Mr 
C continued to advise MoneyBoat he was having difficulties primarily caused by the 
pandemic. It looks like MoneyBoat completed an income and expenditure form with Mr C
in April 202. But, this is something that ought to have been done before, given that Mr C had
already told MoneyBoat that he may struggle to pay £10 per month.
I can also see that Mr C has maintained his £10 a month payment to MoneyBoat each
month between December 2020 to August 2021, expect for July 2021, when no payment
was made.
Ive considered what CONC says in order to see whether the help and support offered to 
Mr C (such as a repayment plan) was reasonable. CONC contains the guidance and rules 
that a lender such as MoneyBoat should follow when dealing with consumers who are 
having problems making the loan repayments.
It covers a number of different areas such as what a lender needs to do before lending is
approved and details of what information needs to be provided to a consumer once a loan is
running. For issues around financial difficulties, the relevant section is 7.3
CONC 7.3.5G gives examples of how a lender, like MoneyBoat could assist a customer
once it becomes aware of financial difficulties.
Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include the firm doing one
or more of the following, as may be relevant in the circumstances:
(1) considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or 
charges (for example, when a customer provides evidence of financial difficulties and 
is unable to meet repayments as they fall due or is only able to make
token repayments, where in either case the level of debt would continue to rise if
interest and charges continue to be applied);
[Note: paragraph 7.4 (box) of ILG]
(2) allowing deferment of payment of arrears:
(a) where immediate payment of arrears may increase the customer's repayments to 
an unsustainable level; or
(b) provided that doing so does not make the term for the repayments unreasonably 
excessive;
(3) accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a
customer to recover from an unexpected income shock, from a customer who
demonstrates that meeting the customer's existing debts would mean not being able
to meet the customer's priority debts or other essential living expenses (such as
in relation to a mortgage, rent, council tax, food bills and utility bills).
Looking at the actions of MoneyBoat, Im satisfied that it did, at times, treat Mr C fairly. It
discovered that he was having repayment problems and agreed to help him by reducing his
payments to £10 per month. It also said it would keep this in place for two months, and then
it would be reviewed, I think this was reasonable because it was aware that Mr Cs
difficulties were being caused by the pandemic and its possible, that after a couple of
months hed be able to return to contractual payments. When Mr C wasnt able to,
MoneyBoat continued to allow Mr C to pay £10 per month.
Indeed, the amount for £10 per month appears to be what Mr C says he could afford to pay
towards this loan, and its entirely reasonable, given what MoneyBoat knew at the time for itto have accepted this amount. As part of this plan, MoneyBoat was entitled to report these
arrears on Mr Cs credit file.
Ive also looked at the help and support that MoneyBoat couldve offered Mr C under the
FCAs tailored support. The FCA has said the following in terms of support that MoneyBoat
couldve offered;
Your lender should:
work with you to provide support before you miss payments
be flexible and use a range of short and longer-term options to support you  this 
could include a period of no payments or reduced payments
give you time to repay what you owe and not pressurise you into repaying your debt 
within an unreasonably short period of time
direct you to debt help or money guidance, and allow you to access debt advice 
before deciding on the support you take
where appropriate, put in place a sustainable repayment plan that is affordable and 
considers your wider financial situation (including other debts and essential living 
expenses)
prevent your debts from escalating (once a repayment plan is in place) by 
suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any interest, fees or charges to make 
that happen
Remember, your options will depend on your circumstances.
Ive considered the actions of MoneyBoat and Im satisfied that it offered some help and
support and I think MoneyBoat did the right thing by allowing Mr C to reduce the payments
he was due to make. However, Ill explain below, why given what MoneyBoat knew, it may
need to do more in relation to the account balance depending on if and / or when interest
was frozen.
Compensation
But, it couldve and ought to have offered Mr C a payment holiday deferral when he first
contacted it for support in September 2020 but at least by December 2020 a deferral may
have benefited Mr C in the short term.
Indeed, it is clear from the call notes and the calls that Mr C is trying to be as open as
possible to get this matter resolved. But the plan wouldve given Mr C some immediate help
and have alleviated some of the distress that Mr C was suffering as a result of the pandemic.
Given this deferral was something he couldve got, it isnt clear why it wasnt offered.
Im satisfied that as a result of this, Mr C has been caused some distress, as he made it
clear, to the call agent that he had other priority bills that needing paying and wasnt going to
be receiving his full salary. For this, I think MoneyBoat should pay Mr C £150.
It also isnt clear from the information MoneyBoat has provided whether it did suspend some
interest or charges and if it did, when it did this from. So, given the content of the calls, if
MoneyBoat hasnt it ought to have, in line with the FCAs tailored support prevented Mr Cs
debt from escalating, and so it ought to have stopped interest, fees and charges from when
he entered into the repayment plan in November 2020.
So MoneyBoat may need to re-work the current outstanding account balance to remove any
interest frees and charges applied to the balance since that date. MoneyBoat wont have to
do this, if it has already suspect interest and charges from this point or from an earlier pointin time.
If an outstanding balance still remains, Id remind MoneyBoat of its obligation to treat Mr C
fairly and with forbearance with any help and support that is needed.
But in saying all the above, while a repayment plan may be reasonable for Mr C to have
resolved the complaint. 
Response to the provisional decision
Both Mr C and MoneyBoat were asked to provide any comments, information or evidence as 
soon as possible, but no later than 12 January 2022. 
Mr C confirmed receipt of the provisional decision and told us that he didnt have anything 
further for this Service to consider. 
MoneyBoat hasnt responded to the provisional decision. But Mr C has forwarded this 
Service an email he received from MoneyBoat and its clear from this email that it is aware of 
the provisional decision and its right, should it wish to, respond. 
 
But, the deadline in the provisional decision has now expired, Im prepared to proceed with 
this complaint and issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An neither Mr C nor MoneyBoat has provided any further comments for me to consider, I see 
no reason to depart from the findings I reached in the provisional decision. I still think, 
MoneyBoat couldve offered Mr C a payment deferral plan when he contacted it to ask for 
support following difficulties he had as a result of the pandemic. 
For this, I thought MoneyBoat ought to pay Mr C some compensation and if required, adjust 
the account balance by freezing interest and charges from the repayment plan in November 
2020. Ive outlined below, what MoneyBoat needs to do in order to put things right for 
  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, MoneyBoat should carry out the following;
Pay Mr C £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him as a 
result of MoneyBoats error by not putting him on the FCAs full payment deferral.
Rework Mr Cs outstanding balance to remove any interest fees and charges applied 
after he entered into the repayment plan in November 2020. If interest has already 
been frozen from either this date (or earlier) then no further account adjustments will 
be needed. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Cs 
complaint.
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Mr C as directed above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman