DRN-4266279
The complaint
Mrs H complains Moneybarn No.1 Limited trading as Moneybarn gave her a car loan that 
was unaffordable. 
What happened
Mrs H acquired a used car in May 2019. She paid £400 to take possession of the car, and 
set up a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn to cover the remaining £5,076 cost. The 
agreement required Mrs H to make 59 monthly payments of £199. After that shed own the 
car, having paid a total of £12,163 for the car and the finance.
In November 2019 Mrs H contacted Moneybarn following a bereavement. She arranged for 
her payments to stop for a couple of months. When they began again in January 2020 the 
payments would be higher for four months to cover the shortfall.
The Covid related lockdowns of March and December 2020 then affected Mrs Hs job. 
Moneybarn agreed three-month payment holidays with Mrs H around these times. 
In July 2021 Mrs H agreed to voluntarily terminate her agreement with Moneybarn. The car 
was taken back and sold, and Mrs H was given a bill to bring what shed paid up to half the 
total cost of the agreement  £6,082. This left her to pay £1,893. Mrs H has agreed a 
payment plan with Moneybarn to pay £50 per month towards this. 
Through a representative, Mrs H complained to Moneybarn in January 2023 that the car 
finance had been unaffordable and shouldnt have been given to her. In response, 
Moneybarn explained theyd checked Mrs Hs financial circumstances before deciding to 
lend to her. Specifically, Moneybarn said theyd:
carried out a full credit search with a credit reference agency, to check Mrs Hs 
historic handling of borrowing, and her commitments at the time of the car loan;
independently verified Mrs Hs stated monthly income of £1,344; and
estimated Mrs Hs non-discretionary spending using data from the Office for National 
Statistics.
Moneybarn said this showed Mrs H had £371 left per month from her salary after deductions 
for committed expenses  including £80 per month towards other borrowing. 
Moneybarn noted Mrs H had previous issues with her borrowing including a county court 
judgement (CCJ) 53 months earlier and a defaulted agreement eight months prior to their 
checks. Moneybarn felt the time that had passed since the CCJ and the repayments Mrs H 
had made towards the defaulted agreement showed it had been acceptable to lend to her. 
Mrs Hs representative brought the complaint to our service. One of our investigators felt the 
checks Moneybarn had completed were reasonable and proportionate. They werent able to 
get a copy of the credit search result from the time, or Mrs Hs credit file. But they felt the 
information Moneybarn had described seeing supported the decision to lend to her. So our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
Moneybarn didnt respond to that view. Ive taken that to mean they agree with it and have 
nothing to add. Mrs Hs representative felt more should have been done to consider bank 
statements theyd sent us from the time of the lending. 
With no agreement to resolve this complaint, its come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill explain below why Ive decided Moneybarn dont need to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint. That means Im not upholding it. 
The rules that apply to credit agreements are set out in the consumer credit sourcebook 
(CONC) of the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. Section 5.2A of CONC is relevant 
here, as  among other things  it talks about the need for businesses like Moneybarn to 
complete reasonable and proportionate creditworthiness assessments before agreeing to 
lend someone money. 
Im going to consider these rules in the following stages:
1. Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs H would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. If they did, was their decision to then lend to Mrs H fair? If they didnt, would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs H could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs H 
would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on the details of the 
borrowing and the borrowers individual circumstances. 
Here, the borrowing was to last a relatively long time  five years. The longer span brought 
with it more opportunity for Mrs Hs circumstances to change, affecting her ability to keep 
making the payments needed. So Id expect to see Moneybarn make a thorough check of 
her circumstances before offering to lend to her. 
The checks Moneybarn have said they did would have given them a reasonable 
understanding of Mrs Hs circumstances at the time. Id have liked to have seen some direct 
evidence of the results from these checks. Or some independent evidence that allowed me 
to check the description Moneybarn have given of the results they received. A copy of 
Mrs Hs credit record could have been useful to do that. But I can see neither Moneybarn nor 
Mrs Hs representative provided one when we asked. 
Our rules allow me to continue with the information we do have. And doing so, I see 
Moneybarn have a reference number for the checks they completed, which goes some way 
to confirming a check was completed. And theyve given a detailed description of the results 
seen. Ive decided to rely on that description as a complete account of what they saw. Ive also looked over the bank statements Mrs Hs representative has referred to, to see if 
theres any suggestion the credit record checks Moneybarn did would have shown 
something different to what theyve said. 
The statements dont show any payments towards existing credit agreements prior to the 
lending in late May 2019. I think it likely Mrs H had another account in fact, as theres no 
obvious payments towards things like housing costs or utility bills. 
The statements do show the salaries Mrs H received from a couple of different jobs at the 
time of this lending. The total amount she received was in line with the figure Moneybarn 
used when considering her income. Again, this points to Moneybarn having completed 
reasonable checks, as theyd obtained an accurate figure for Mrs Hs income. 
I can accept that the expenditure figures from the ONS were a reasonable way to get a feel 
for whether Mrs Hs income would allow her to afford the finance in this case. While it wasnt 
specific to Mrs H, it would allow for a general look at the affordability of the agreement. 
With these details, I find Moneybarn did do enough to complete a reasonable and 
proportionate check about Mrs Hs ability to afford this borrowing. 
Was the decision to then lend to Mrs H fair?
Moneybarn have explained that their assessment of Mrs Hs income and expenditure told 
them shed have £371 available to pay the £199 per month needed to satisfy the agreement. 
I can see how they could conclude from this that shed be able to afford the payments. 
Ive seen nothing that contradicts the details Moneybarn have described about Mrs Hs 
historic borrowing, or her borrowing at the time of the loan. So Ive decided itll be reasonable 
for me to rely on Moneybarns description of what they saw when completing their checks. 
I can accept concerns about Mrs H having a CCJ on her record would have been reduced by 
it having been 53 months prior to the lending decision  a relatively long time. So I find it was 
proportionate that Moneybarn didnt make more checks into it before deciding to lend.
Ive had our investigator ask Moneybarn and Mrs Hs representative for more details about 
the default eight months before this agreement began. Moneybarn have confirmed theyd 
seen five defaulted accounts with a combined outstanding balance of £600. Its not clear 
what the repayment conditions were for these. So I cant see a specific payment that would 
have changed the positive indications about affordability gained by comparing Mrs Hs 
income and expenditure. 
With all this in mind, Ive decided Moneybarns decision to lend to Mrs H was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances that have been presented for this case. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October  2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman