DRN-3227330
The complaint
Ms W complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) havent followed the 
reasonable adjustments she asked for when communicating with her. She also says she 
found it difficult to raise a dispute and they didnt acknowledge a separate dispute she 
raised. 
What happened
Ms W says she had to call Capital One when she received her credit card in order to set up 
their banking app. Ms W says, due to her disabilities, she finds it difficult speaking on the 
phone. Ms W says, while on the call she asked for her disabilities to be recorded and for 
reasonable adjustments to be put in place. In particular, she didnt want to receive any 
phone calls or post. Ms W says she wanted all communication by email or secure message. 
Ms W says she was told this wouldnt be possible and the call handler wanted to place her 
on hold while she went to check with her manager. Ms W says, at this point, shed already 
been on the call for seven minutes so started feeling unwell. Ms W complained and said, by 
having to make a phone call and not receiving the assistance she required, Capital One 
failed to acknowledge her reasonable adjustments. 
Capital One responded and explained Ms W had entered her mobile number incorrectly on 
the application form so this wouldve led to a one-time passcode not reaching Ms W, so she 
called them to correct her mobile number. Capital One said, theyd updated their systems to 
prevent proactive calls being made to Ms W but this wouldnt stop calls from their fraud 
department or any legally required letters. Capital One said, wherever possible, theyll try 
and send correspondence by email, however there is certain correspondence theyre legally 
required to send by post and theyre unable to prevent these from being sent. They noted 
how receiving letters impacts Ms W so they offered the option of these letters being sent to a 
family member or trusted friend of Ms Ws. They said cards and PINs would continue to be 
sent to Ms W. They didnt uphold the complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms W. During our investigation, Ms W raised further 
complaints which our investigator put to Capital One together with Ms Ws original 
complaints. Ms W says, she had an issue with a clothing retailer who had refused to issue a 
refund. Ms W says she asked Capital One to help and again mentioned her disabilities - it 
was agreed they would call her at a particular time. Ms W says Capital One didnt call her at 
the agreed time and instead called her the following day when she wasnt available  and  
Ms W says she has since learned that a call isnt necessary to raise a dispute. Ms W says 
this is another example of Capital One not acknowledging her needs. 
Ms W says she raised a further dispute against a retailer she bought a bed from and felt 
Capital One had ignored her and werent helpful. She says, while the dispute was 
outstanding, the balance for the bed appeared on her Capital One card and they requested 
payments to be made. Ms W says this was going to cause her financial difficulty and she 
doesnt feel its fair to expect her to pay the balance on the card when shes disputing the 
transaction.    
 
Capital One responded to our service and explained a customer can only change their 
mobile number by calling them or through the mobile app  and as Ms W didnt have the app 
at that point, she had to call. Capital One said, Ms W requested no phone calls to be made 
and no post to be sent but the call handler explained some correspondence, like legal 
notices, would need to be sent by post. They said, Ms W explained Capital One need to 
make reasonable adjustments so the call handler asked if she could put Ms W on hold while 
she checked the position. Capital One said Ms W didnt want to stay on hold and the call 
handler explained she needed Ms W on the line to make the changes. Capital One said the 
call handler couldve made the changes Ms W requested without the need for Ms W to 
remain on the line.
    
In relation to the dispute against the clothing retailer, Capital One said Ms W called to raise a 
dispute. They said the call handler explained Ms W would need to do this on the website but 
Ms W wanted the call handler to raise the dispute for her. Capital One said the call handler 
explained her team couldnt raise a dispute on Ms Ws behalf and then arranged a callback 
from their Disputes Team at an agreed time. Capital One said the call wasnt returned at the 
agreed time and the call handler shouldve explained to Ms W that they cant guarantee a 
certain time for a callback. Capital One said they tried to call Ms W back the following day 
but, as there was no answer, their Disputes Team sent an email asking for further 
information. Capital One said, Ms W then emailed them as she was unhappy she wasnt 
made aware the Disputes Team could email her. Capital One said, Ms W wanted them to 
raise the dispute over the phone and that is why they offered the callback from the team that 
handles disputes.  
Capital One said, there was further exchanges by email relating to the dispute during which 
Ms W mentioned an issue with a bed shed bought. Capital One said Ms W hadnt provided 
any transaction information. Capital One then continued to email Ms W about the dispute 
with the clothing retailer and confirmed they had refunded Ms W. There was then further 
emails from Ms W asking Capital One to refer to her earlier email and also querying how the 
transaction (relating to the bed) could be part of her monthly payment when she was 
disputing it. Capital One then responded and explained the clothing retailer had refunded  
Ms W. Capital One said they shouldve at this point noticed that Ms W mentioned a 
transaction involving a bed and enquired about this. They said Ms W then emailed them to 
complain about the length of time it was taking to respond to her and that they were ignoring 
her dispute about the bed. Capital One apologised for any upset caused and credited Ms 
Ws account with £50 compensation. They also confirmed they had now opened a dispute. 
Capital One noted Ms Ws request to not receive any calls or to receive any post. Capital 
One explained they had updated their system to take into account Ms Ws communication 
needs but they dont currently have the ability to send certain correspondence by email, for 
example a Default Notice letter. Capital One said they had reviewed the case and offered  
Ms W £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Our investigator 
thought this offer was fair and also said Capital One had updated their systems in line with 
Ms Ws communication needs. Ms W disagreed and felt there shouldnt be any 
circumstances where Capital One should send any correspondence by post. So, the matter 
has come to me for a decision.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Capital Ones offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I 
understand Ms W will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Ms W. The key facts about the complaint arent in 
dispute. Capital One have admitted they got things wrong when they told Ms W she needed 
to wait on hold when she didnt need to, not calling her at the agreed time in relation to her 
dispute and the delay in identifying Ms Ws dispute relating to the bed she bought. The only 
issue I have to decide is whether the offer theyve made to put things right is fair and 
reasonable.
I think its right that Capital One should compensate Ms W for the upset and inconvenience 
caused by their poor service. Ive listened to the recording of the call Ms W makes to Capital 
One to provide her correct mobile number. During this call Ms W asks the call handler to 
make a note on the system for Capital One not to call her or send anything in the post apart 
from a card or PIN. The call handler says they will make this note but they wont be able to 
prevent any regulatory letters being sent. Its clear Ms W isnt happy about receiving any 
letters by post and the call handler explains she needs to check this and asks Ms W to stay 
on hold. Ms W says shes starting to feel unwell and, given that Ms W had already made the 
call handler aware she didnt want to receive any phone calls, I understand why the 
possibility of having to remain on hold upset Ms W. 
In addition to this, at the point Ms W asked Capital One to raise a dispute against the 
clothing retailer, theyre aware Ms W doesnt want to communicate over the phone  and 
that this is down to a disability she has told Capital One about. I can see Capital One have 
explained why they arranged a callback for their Disputes Team to speak with Ms W but this 
call wasnt made at the time agreed. So, I can understand why this upset Ms W. Ive listened 
to a recording of this call and Ms W does reluctantly agree to a callback because the call 
handler explains theyve checked other options and it would need a callback if Ms W wants 
them to log a dispute on her behalf. I can understand why Ms W was upset when the call 
wasnt made at this time and why it further upset her to then receive a call a day later when 
she wasnt expecting this. Its also clear from Ms Ws email correspondence with Capital 
One that she refers to a dispute involving a bed she bought and I can see she was caused 
upset and inconvenience at the delay in getting this dispute set up. 
In relation to the two disputes, I can see Capital One have set these up and progressed 
them. One has led to a refund and while I havent seen any information setting out the 
present position in relation to the dispute involving the bed, the issue Im looking at here is 
Capital Ones delay in setting this up  and I can see thats been done now. To reflect the 
impact of this on Ms W, theyve credited her account with £50  and I think thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
That leaves the issue involving Ms W being asked to remain on hold and also not receiving a 
call when agreed. I think the £200 offered by Capital One is fair and reasonable and takes 
into account the upset and inconvenience caused to Ms W.      
I note Ms Ws main area of dispute is around Capital One saying certain communication 
cant be sent by email. They say they dont currently have the ability to send certain 
correspondence like a Default Notice letter by email. They say the majority of 
correspondence they send by post are when a customer is in arrears. 
I think its important to note that our service doesnt have power to require a business to 
change its processes. Or to direct what process a business should follow when handling 
arrears. I note Ms W remains concerned at the possibility that a letter might be sent in the 
future but I dont think its unreasonable for Capital One to manage expectations around 
when their process might lead to a letter being sent. As mentioned, we dont have the power 
to direct a business on what their process should be so I cant direct Capital One on what 
they should do in those circumstances. That said, they havent sent Ms W such a letter by 
post and it might well be the case that Ms W may never receive such a letter if her account 
doesnt go into arrears. Capital One say they currently dont have the ability to send arrears communication by 
email, but I cant speculate whether this will still be the position going forward. It might well 
be that Capital Ones systems and processes are updated in the future to enable such 
correspondence to be sent by email. But, the important point here is that Ms W hasnt 
received such correspondence by letter. While I note she doesnt want Capital One to send 
correspondence by post, I can only look at whether Capital One have taken reasonable 
steps in line with Ms Ws requests for reasonable adjustments. And, given that theyve 
updated their systems to note Ms Ws communication needs, I think theyve acted fairly. 
In summary, I think Capital One have made errors here and I think their total offer of £250 
compensation is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
Capital One (Europe) plc have already paid Ms W £50 compensation and made an offer to 
pay a further £200 compensation, to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So, my decision is that Capital One (Europe) plc should pay the additional £200 
compensation to Ms W, if they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman