DRN-2066368
The complaint
Ms S complains that Homeserve Membership Limited (Homeserve) hasnt refunded 
premiums he paid it for cover that duplicated cover he had with another insurer (Insurer B).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
in detail.
In brief, an attorney for Mr S took out plumbing and drainage insurance for him with 
Homeserve on 21 March 2011. Mr S says the attorney didnt know that he already had cover 
in place with Insurer B which also covered him for various things including plumbing and 
drainage.
Homeserve says that the policy with it was taken out first.  It points to a renewal document 
which suggests that the policy with Insurer B started in April 2011. It says this policy is 
therefore the duplicate policy as it post-dates the policy with Homeserve.
Mr S says hes had a policy with Insurer B since at least 2009, but as Insurer B doesnt keep 
records going back that far, he cant prove this. He has however provided copies of bank 
statements showing that monthly direct debits had been paid to Insurer B since at least 
2009. Homeserve says these could be for something other than plumbing and drainage 
cover.
Mr S cancelled his policy with Homeserve on 18 July 2019 and asked for a refund of 
premiums on 1 August 2019. He wasnt satisfied with Homeserves response to this request 
nor with the service he received. It failed to respond to five emails he sent. Homeserve 
provided £20 compensation for its poor service. He referred his complaint to this service, 
and our investigator upheld his complaint.
Her view was that it was industry practise in situations of dual insurance that each insurer 
refunds 50% of the premiums it has received. She recommended that Homeserve refund to 
Mr S 50% of the premiums hed paid it with 8% interest from the date that Mr S first 
requested a refund of premium, namely 1 August 2019. She considered that the £20 
compensation that Homeserve had offered Mr S for the poor service it had provided was not 
generous but wasnt out of line with what she might otherwise have recommended.
Homeserve doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for these reasons:
The policy number on a policy renewal letter from Insurer B dated 25 April 2012 is the 
same as the reference number on Mr Ss bank statement for a payment made to 
Insurer B on 28 February 2011, so before Homeserves policy started.
 
I also consider that Mr S has provided enough evidence from his bank statements of 
payments being made to Insurer B that pre-date his policy with Homeserve for me to 
find it more likely than not that these were for an insurance policy similar to that which  
existed in 2011. 
Im therefore satisfied that Insurer Bs policy was the first in time, and Homeserves 
policy is therefore the duplicate. Based on Homeserves reasoning, it should 
therefore refund 100% of the premiums it received.
But I agree with our investigator that it doesnt matter which policy was taken out first. 
Im not aware of any industry practise that would suggest that the appropriate means 
of addressing refunds of premiums in the case of a dual policy was to identify which 
policy was taken out first.
No claim has been made under either policy. But if a claim had been made, the 
insurer paying wouldve been entitled to seek a 50% contribution from the other 
insurer. That is reasonable, and standard industry practice. It seems equally 
reasonable that Homeserve should refund 50% of the premiums it received.
Putting things right
I consider it fair and reasonable that Homeserve repay Mr S 50 % of the premiums hes paid 
it from the inception of his policy with it until the policy was cancelled on 18 July 2019.
Turning to Mr Ss request for compensation for what I agree was poor service from 
Homeserve, whilst I agree with our investigator that £20 is on the low side, I do not consider 
that it is so low as to be unreasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I require Homeserve Insurance Limited to refund to Mr S 
50% of the premiums hes paid to it from inception of his policy until its cancellation on 18 
July 2019. 
I also require Homeserve Membership Limited to pay interest on the sum payable to Mr S at 
the simple rate of 8% a year from 1 August 2019 when he requested a refund of premiums 
until the date payment is made to him.
If Homeserve Membership Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.I also require Homeserve Membership Limited to pay compensation of £20 to Mr S if it hasnt 
already done so
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman