DRN-3616028
The complaint
Mr N complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) incorrectly put 
transactions he made using his credit card into dispute  which has also led to a negative 
impact on his credit score.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr N contacted AESEL to dispute a transaction he made on his account 
via a payment service provider Ill refer to as P. 
Mr N says that, without his consent, AESEL then disputed every transaction he made using 
P, not just the one he disputed, which he says caused chaos with his account. AESEL 
applied a number of credits and debits to the account for transactions processed using P  
this continued over many months, even after when Mr N says he told AESEL that he wasnt 
disputing transactions to P. Mr N was left confused about what was happening with his 
account.
AESEL wrote to Mr N in July 2021, letting him know that it had taken the decision to suspend 
and close his account. Mr N brought a complaint to this service about the account closure, 
and this has been considered as a separate complaint  so I wont address this as part of 
this decision.
The account was suspended in July 2021, and at this point there was still a balance 
outstanding on the account, which Mr N didnt start to repay until around mid-2022.
Mr N says that AESEL have impacted his credit score which has led to not being able to get 
a mortgage or a loan. And his bank account provider removed his overdraft facility.
AESEL responded to Mr Ns complaint and upheld it in part. It explained that when Mr N 
raised a dispute about a transaction made using P in January 2019, he filled out a form to 
raise the dispute, and requested that all transactions to P should be disputed. This led to 
AESEL crediting all (around 67) transactions made via P to Mr Ns account. Then when Mr N 
confirmed the transactions didnt need disputing, AESEL meant to re-debit all the 
transactions to the account. But AESEL explained it made a mistake by not re-debiting 35 of 
the transactions (totalling £2,407.52) to Mr Ns account and it said it wouldnt now be re-
debiting these transactions  so Mr N was £2,407.52 more in credit than he should have 
been. AESEL reiterated that it could reconcile Mr Ns account so that all merchants had 
been paid, but this would mean that there would be an additional debt of £2,407.52 owed to 
the account.
The Investigator looked into Mr Ns complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. They 
explained that they had seen information to satisfy themselves that Mr N asked for all 
transactions to P to be disputed  and so this is why AESEL credited them to the account, 
and then later debited them to the account when Mr N confirmed they didnt need disputing. 
The Investigator noted that AESEL had already decided not the re-debit £2,407.52 back to 
the account, and so they didnt think that AESEL needed to do anything to more for Mr N.    
Mr N didnt agree with the Investigators view. He said that hed now started to make 
repayments to clear the balance and so AESEL should remove the negative markers on his 
credit file. Mr N also couldnt understand why, on two separate occasions (after April 2019), 
AESEL disputed the transactions to P, when he didnt ask them to do this.
Because Mr N didnt agree with the Investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me, I wont be upholding Mr Ns complaint. I 
appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr N, but Ill explain my reasons in 
more detail.
When Mr N first raised a dispute about one transaction made using P in January 2019, I can 
see that he completed a form online to do this. The form asked a number of questions about 
the disputed transaction, but it also asked:
We can put in place a process to prevent authorizations on future billings from this 
Merchant? Do you wish to proceed with the process?
I can see, Mr N selected the Yes box to this question. The next question on the form 
asked:
This action may disrupt future billings from this Merchant. Would you still like to proceed?
I can see, Mr N selected the Yes box to this question too. 
Because of how Mr N answered the questions on the form, AESEL raised disputes for all 
transactions Mr N made using P. So, I cant agree that AESEL raised disputes for all 
transactions to P without Mr Ns consent  Mr N consented to this when he completed the 
form back in January 2019. 
I can understand why Mr N is frustrated though. I suspect his intention was to dispute 
transactions made to the end retailer not P  but because he used P to send the payment to 
the retailer, I think it likely Mr N unintentionally asked AESEL to dispute all transactions 
made using P  instead of just disputing those made to the end retailer.
Raising a dispute about a payment wont block the transaction in the first instance. 
Generally, the transaction will be allowed to go through, and then a credit is raised at a later 
date. This is why Mr N could see many credits for transactions made to P on his statements. 
The transactions that have been disputed and credited to the account are labelled as 
CREDIT FOR DISPUTED CHARGE on Mr Ns statements.
Once Mr N confirmed to AESEL that the transactions werent in dispute, AESEL would have 
been right to debit all of these back to Mr Ns account. The ones they did debit back show as 
DEBIT ADJUSTMENT on Mr Ns statements. 
So essentially, whats happened here is that AESEL credited transactions made via P to Mr 
Ns account, because Mr N told AESEL that he wanted to dispute them all (via the form he 
completed in January 2019). When Mr N told AESEL that the transactions werent in dispute, it then planned to debit all of them back to the account again (but only did some in error  
which Ill come on to). This is what I would have expected to happen in this circumstance.
Overall, I think AESEL disputed all transactions to P correctly, and at Mr Ns request. I 
realise its likely Mr N didnt mean to dispute all transactions to P, and its this that I think has 
led to his confusion, but I havent found AESEL did anything wrong in doing so. 
I have noted that Mr N has disputed some of the transactions AESEL debited back to the 
account. Ive looked at all of Mr Ns statements since January 2019  and having done so, 
Im of the view that AESEL has credited more transactions to Mr Ns account, than it had 
debited  resulting in Mr N having a lesser outstanding balance than he would have done if 
AESEL had debited all transaction back to the account.
AESEL has confirmed it made a mistake when it didnt re-debit all the transactions back to 
Mr Ns account. This means that Mr N made £2,407.52 worth of transactions using P, that he 
confirmed werent in dispute, that AESEL didnt debit or add back to the account. AESEL has 
said that it wont re-debit these transactions back to the account. This means Mr N has 
effectively had £2,407.52 worth of purchases to P for free as a result of AESELs error. 
I can see Mr N has said that he let AESEL know that all transactions to P shouldnt be 
disputed  he says this call happened in February or March 2019. If Mr N did tell AESEL this 
during a call, then I agree that AESEL shouldnt have continued to dispute the transactions. 
But even if I accept what Mr N has said here, I still dont uphold this complaint. I say this 
because Mr N was sent a letter about every dispute  around 67 letters in total. So, he ought 
to have been aware that AESEL were still disputing transactions made using P  even if he 
had previously let it know that he didnt want to dispute all transactions made using P. 
In any event, AESEL said it wouldnt re-debit £2,407.52 to his account, which means he is 
better off than he would have been had AESEL not made the mistake. It follows that even if 
AESEL has made a mistake, I wouldnt ask it to do anything more for Mr N because hes 
already benefitting by considerably more than Id potentially have awarded.
AESEL have said that Mr N didnt make a payment to the account after July 2021. Because 
of this, AESEL have reported this information to the credit reference agencies, which Mr N 
says is having an impact on his credit score.
More recently, Mr N has confirmed he has started making repayments to clear the 
outstanding balance  and so he wants AESEL to remove the information it is reporting 
about him to the credit reference agencies. Im sorry to disappoint Mr N, but I wont be 
asking AESEL to do this. I can only ask AESEL to put something right, where it has done 
something wrong. And I dont think it has done anything wrong here. 
Both parties appear to agree that Mr N didnt make repayments to the account from July 
2021. Because of this, AESEL are obliged to report this factual information to the credit 
reference agencies, which would include any missed payments to the account and if the 
account has defaulted. 
Missed payments and or default markers will likely have an impact on a persons ability to 
obtain new credit, so its possible that Mr Ns mortgage/loan application was affected by this. 
But a business, like AESEL, has a responsibility to report accurate information about how 
someone has managed their account to the credit reference agencies. Given what Ive 
already said about Mr N not making payments to the account, I think it fair that AESEL 
reports this information. So, I wont be asking AESEL to remove any negative markers from 
Mr Ns credit file.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman