DRN-3175933
Complaint
Mrs P has complained about the overdraft charges Santander UK Plc (Santander) applied 
to her current account. Shes said the charges were harsh and, in any event, she was told it 
was not possible to go into an unarranged overdraft on her account.
Background
Mrs Ps complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that Santander 
had done anything wrong as she wasnt persuaded Santander misled Mrs P nor did it have 
reason to suspect she may have been in financial difficulty. So she didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Santander charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Santanders charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mrs P if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mrs Ps 
account in circumstances where it was unfair to do so. Mrs P says it was unfair for 
Santander to charge her the fees it did here because she was told it wasnt possible to have 
an unarranged overdraft on her account. I dont know what Mrs P was told. But Mrs Ps 
account was initially opened as an instant plus account and then changed to a preferred in 
credit account. The purpose of these accounts was saving rather than operating them as 
running accounts. And its likely Mrs P wouldnt have been able to go overdrawn on them. 
However, the preferred in credit account Mrs P had was withdrawn in 2013 and it was at this 
point she was migrated onto the Everyday current account, which as a running account, had 
a full debit card and the ability to have an overdraft. Mrs P had an overdraft with an agreed 
limit of £100 until 2018.  
I accept its possible that Mrs P may be recalling her initial discussions about her savings 
type account, when saying she was told it wasnt possible to go overdrawn on an 
unarranged basis, rather than recalling the information she was provided with about the 
Everyday current account she was migrated to in 2013. But even it if this is the case, I cant 
hold Santander responsible for this especially as Mrs P kept the account even after incurring 
unarranged overdraft fees. 
As this is the case, Ive not seen enough to be sufficiently persuaded that Santander misled 
Mrs P into believing that she couldnt go into an unarranged overdraft and incur such fees on 
her account. And as the terms and conditions Mrs P signed up to permitted Santander to 
charge Mrs P in the way it did, Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Notwithstanding this, it would nonetheless have been unfair for Santander to have charged 
or continued charging Mrs P where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have 
been aware she was experiencing financial difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether there were periods where Santander continued charging Mrs P 
even though it ought to have known she was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised 
this was the case. Ive looked through Mrs Ps statements throughout the period concerned. 
And I cant see that Santander ought to have been aware that Mrs P might have been 
struggling during the period weve looked at. 
Its fair to say that Mrs P did go into an unarranged overdraft on occasion. But the 
unarranged overdraft charges on Mrs Ps account were incurred sporadically. And while Im 
not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mrs P expenditure, nonetheless 
there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary 
transactions account going from the account. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mrs P wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. And I know Mrs P that these charges did cause her difficulty. 
But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted 
Santander to potential financial difficulty. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mrs P, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for Santander to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. 
And I dont think Santander unfairly charged Mrs P in circumstances where it ought to have 
realised that she may have been experiencing financial difficulty. So I dont think that 
Santander needs to refund any interest, fees and charges and Im not upholding Mrs Ps 
complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs P. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman