The complaint
Mrs B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc didnt make it clear an informal payment plan 
would be reported on her credit file. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Clydesdale Bank checked Mrs Bs income and outgoings but found she wasnt able
to afford to agree a formal payment plan. As a result, Clydesdale Bank agreed to
stop applying interest and charges to Mrs Bs credit card which meant her payments
have been used to reduce the outstanding balance. Clydesdale Bank wouldnt have
agreed to suspend interest and charges without reporting an arrangement to the
credit reference agencies.
In response to the investigator, Mrs B said she wants the ombudsman to make a
decision about whether she could have afforded to maintain her minimum payment.
But Mrs B gave Clydesdale Bank information that said her income was £2,437 and
her monthly outgoings were £2,573.74. The information Mrs B gave Clydesdale Bank
in January 2019 showed she was experiencing financial difficulties and couldnt
afford the monthly repayments. Im satisfied Clydesdale Bank was right to act on the
information Mrs B provided.
Clydesdale Bank accepts it didnt tell Mrs B the information would remain on her
credit file for six years. I agree it wouldve been better if that information had been
provided. But Clydesdale Bank did inform Mrs B the arrangement would impact her
credit file. Im satisfied Mrs B was aware her credit file would be affected by the
arrangement.
As I think Clydesdale Bank has dealt with Mrs B's complaint fairly, I'm not telling it to
take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
DRN-1965683Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman