DRN-3565293
The complaint
Mr H complains AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited hasnt offered him a fair 
settlement after he made a claim on his home insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2021, Mr Hs roof was damaged by a localised weather event. He attempted to make 
a claim on his home insurance policy. The number he called was for the third-party that use 
to handle claims on AAs behalf. Ill refer to that third-party as T.
Mr H says he called Ts claim number on 5 June. He says he was told to get the roof 
repaired by a qualified tradesman, and to send in photos and the invoice.
Mr H arranged a temporary repair, for £140. The contractor also provided two options for the 
permanent repair. The first option was a localised repair, costing £2,016. The second option 
was to replace all the tiles on that side of the roof, for £2,640. Mr H chose option two.
Mr H sent the temporary repair and the permanent repair invoices to T, along with photos. 
He explained the localised repair wouldnt have had a guarantee and the tiles couldnt be 
matched. T told Mr H it no longer dealt with claims for AA and it provided AAs contact 
details.
AA explained that, under the policy terms, it will either repair the damage using one of its 
approved contractors, or cash settle the claim based on what it would have paid its own 
contractor. AA said, based on its contractor rates, the repairs would have only cost it 
£1,061.45. Therefore, AA settled the claim for £1,061.45, less the £350 excess, i.e. 
£711.45. 
Mr H was unhappy with the settlement amount, so he brought a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators didnt think his complaint should be upheld. Because Mr H 
disagreed, his complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision, explaining I intended to uphold the complaint. In my 
provisional decision, I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As per the policy terms, if the policyholder chooses a cash settlement, AA is entitled to cash 
settle based on its own costs. However, Mr H says he arranged the repairs himself on the 
instruction of T. In other words, he wasnt given the option of AAs contractor.
Its not clear why Mr H contacted T. I note the claim number on his policy documents, for the 
period of insurance in question, is for AA. Nonetheless, I havent seen a reason to doubt 
what he says in respect of T. I find Mr Hs testimony credible.
I dont consider it fair or reasonable for Mr H to lose out because of the advice he was given 
by AAs former agent. Therefore, I intend to decide AA cant fairly limit the settlement to its 
own contractor rates.
However, I havent seen anything that suggests the localised repair wouldnt have been 
effective and lasting. As such, I cant reasonably hold AA responsible for the cost of 
replacing all the tiles, irrespective of the ten-year guarantee.
I can understand why Mr H wanted matching tiles, but I havent seen anything that leads me 
to believe a reasonable match couldnt have been obtained. When replacing damaged roof 
tiles, there will always likely be a difference between the new tiles and the undamaged tiles 
which have already weathered. In those circumstances, we generally dont expect the 
insurer to cover the undamaged tiles.
Im satisfied AA should be liable for the temporary repair costs. Had those temporary repairs 
not been undertaken, AA may have had increased costs due to internal water damage.
In conclusion, I consider a fair and reasonable settlement to be the cost of the localised 
repair (£2,016), plus the cost of the temporary repair (£140), less the excess (£350), i.e. 
£1,806. AA has paid £711.45. So, it would need to pay a further £1,094.55.
AA will also need to pay 8% simple interest per annum on the £1,094.55, from the date it 
paid £711.45, to the date of settlement.
I also intend to award £150 compensation, to reflect the inconvenience and upset caused by 
AAs unfair claim settlement.
Mr H accepted my provisional decision. 
AA made the following comments:
- AA used to outsource its claims handling to T, until 1 July 2021. 
- AA is only liable for the area damaged by the storm, which is limited to 5m2. AAs 
scope came to £1,061.45.
- The provisional decision states I cant reasonably hold AA responsible for the cost of 
replacing all the tiles. Yet, AA is being asked to pay the cost of Mr Hs localised 
repair, which extends to the full roof. AA pointed towards the £2,640 invoice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the background section of my provisional decision, and in the background section of this 
final decision, I noted Mr H was given two options by his contractor. The first option was a 
localised repair to the damaged area, for £2,016. The second option was to have all the 
tiles replaced on that side of the roof, for £2,640. I also noted Mr H chose option two.
As such, I acknowledge Mr Hs invoice is for renewing an entire side of the roof. However, 
my provisional decision wasnt that AA should pay £2,640, but rather, it should meet the 
£2,016 quote (which was for the damaged section of tiles only).As set out in my provisional decision, T told Mr H to get the roof repaired. Having done so, 
AA cant reasonably hold Mr H to its contractor rates. Due to Ts advice, Mr H reasonably 
incurred costs up to £2,016, plus the cost of temporary repairs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr H:
- a further £1,094.55 to settle the claim;
- 8% simple interest per annum on the £1,094.55, from the date it paid £711.45, to the 
date of settlement; and
- £150 compensation.
If AA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from any 
interest paid, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. If requested, AA should also give 
Mr H a certificate showing the amount deducted, so he can reclaim it from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman