DRN-1762774
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM)) 
mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy which Mr and Mrs T are understood to have 
taken out some time between 1995 and 2003. Mr and Mrs T say they took the policy out 
when they arranged their mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr T if he couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-           If BM gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ts needs?
-           Did BM give Mr and Mrs T the information they needed to decide whether to take out 
the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs T are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs T say they were put under pressure to buy the PPI, and that BM didn't give them 
a proper choice. Mrs T says she was working for BM at the time, and that she and Mr T felt 
pressured into switching their mortgage to BM. She says they were simply given the 
paperwork and told to sign all of it - including the documents for the PPI. As such, Mr and 
Mrs T said they were given the impression they had to take the PPI to get the mortgage they 
wanted.The difficulty I have is that I can't be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs T and 
BM when the policy was sold. I'm also mindful that these events took place many years ago. 
And from what I've seen, I think it's possible the policy was sold some time after Mr and Mrs 
T's mortgage was arranged.
So without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs T have told me, I don't think I can fairly 
or reasonably say that BM didn't make them aware they had a choice about buying the PPI.
BM can't say for sure how the policy was sold. But even if I accept that it advised Mr and Mrs 
T to take out the policy, it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time. I'll explain why.
-           There is nothing to suggest that Mr T wasnt eligible for the policy. 
-           Mr and Mrs T say they were in a very secure position when the policy was sold. Mr T 
was entitled to sick pay from his employer, and he was a member of his company pension 
scheme and was entitled to death benefits. Mrs T was also working and they had savings.  
But the PPI policy would've paid out in addition to Mr T's employer sick pay and would do so, 
it seems, for longer. And it would've meant Mr and Mrs T could use their savings to cover 
other expenses. Mr T's pension would've only paid out on retirement, and his death in 
service benefits on death. So I'm not persuaded the PPI would've duplicated those benefits. 
On balance, I think the policy would've been useful to Mr and Mrs T, despite their existing 
arrangements.
-           Its unlikely that Mr T wouldve been affected by any conditions limiting the policys 
main benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely he and Mrs T needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations.
-           I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs T 
before they agreed to buy it. But Mr and Mrs T chose to take out the policy, knowing they 
would have to pay something for it. It seems the policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. So I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs T would have made a different 
decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information the BM gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr T probably wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs T would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  
overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy. 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman