DRN-4255142
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the poor service he received from British Gas Insurance Limited 
(BGIL) when he sought assistance under his Home Care agreement. 
What happened
In September 2022 Mr A sought assistance from BGIL when there was a problem with hot 
water access to his kitchen sink. 
There were a number of visits from engineers. BGIL ordered a boiler part which needed 
replacing. When an engineer dismantled part of the boiler to fit the part, a screw was 
damaged and another part needed replacement. But due to the age of Mr As boiler, this part 
was no longer available. 
In October 2022 Mr A arranged for the boiler to be replaced. Mr A raised a complaint with 
BGIL about the poor service he received and the impact it had on him and his family. He 
said they were without hot water and heating for two weeks. Mr A set out a claim for his time, 
and the distress and inconvenience caused to him and his family totalling £3,600. 
BGIL didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said as a part had become obsolete, there was 
nothing more it could do. But it said it was sorry Mr A was inconvenienced in having to make 
arrangements for a new boiler to be fitted. And in recognition of the fact Mr A had been a 
customer for several years, BGIL agreed to provide a refund of the premiums Mr A had paid 
since the last renewal date and a compensation sum of £150, so a total payment of £329.03. 
Mr A remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator thought 
BGIL was responsible for the screw being damaged when the engineer tried to dismantle the 
boiler to carry out repairs. But she didnt think BGIL was responsible for any costs toward a 
new boiler, given it was over 15 years old and the agreement didnt provide cover for a boiler 
of that age. The Investigator recommended BGIL pay Mr A a further £200 compensation. 
BGIL said it didnt agree it was responsible for the screw damage, but it agreed to pay an 
extra £200 compensation to resolve things. 
Mr A didnt agree and has reiterated his complaint for me to consider. 
I asked our Investigator to explain to Mr A that his complaint about the installation of a new 
boiler isnt something we can look at as it isnt a regulated activity. It wasnt part of the Home 
Care Agreement to provide.
Mr A disagrees. He says BGIL broke his boiler and part of his complaint is that it was BGILs 
actions that led to him having to arrange for the installation of a new boiler. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As agreement with BGIL provides repair cover for boiler breakdown. As BGIL and our 
Investigator set out, the agreement doesnt provide replacement boiler cover for Mr A, due to 
the age of the boiler, which was installed in 1990. I understand Mr A doesnt agree, but Ive 
explained why I am of the view that the new boiler isnt something this service can consider 
below.
Mr As agreement says;
"What's covered
 A replacement for your boiler if we can't repair it and:
 it's less than seven years old; or
 it's between seven and ten years old, we installed it and it's been continuously 
covered by us under either a warranty or HomeCare product"
Im reasonably satisfied that BGILs appointed engineer damaged a screw while attempting 
to carry out repairs to Mr As boiler. But I dont think this means it should contribute toward 
the costs of a replacement boiler. Mr As boiler was nearing the end of its natural life and it 
isnt unusual for parts for a boiler of this age to no longer be available. 
And while I understand Mr A believes BGIL should not have disconnected the boiler as it 
was an isolated issue with hot water, not the heating, BGIL says this was the correct process 
to follow as it wasnt safe to use the boiler without a suitable part. 
When things go wrong, its reasonable to expect a degree of inconvenience and disruption. I 
think that BGILs offer to return the premiums Mr A paid since the last renewal date and to 
pay £150 goes some way to putting things right. 
It is unfortunate that the most recent repairs needed to the boiler resulted in further parts 
needing replacement The compensation awards which we give are modest to reflect any 
distress and inconvenience caused over and above what we consider reasonable. 
And so, to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by BGIL in this case, I think a fairer 
compensation award is £350, which BGIL has agreed with. So I uphold this complaint in line 
with the Investigators recommendations as set out below. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr A a further £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr A accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman