DRN-3682198
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) declined her claim for 
a damaged device because they couldnt settle the claim without it. She would like her 
device to be replaced without having to return it. 
What happened
Mrs H had gadget insurance with Assurant. She contacted them online on 20 May 2022 to 
log a claim for liquid damage to her device. She contacted them again on 23 May 2022. 
Assurant accepted the claim. Mrs H paid the £50 excess. 
Assurant told Mrs H she would need to send in the damaged device before the claim could 
be assessed. She was unhappy that this was a requirement for her claim. She didnt feel it 
was reasonable for Assurant to ask her to send in the damaged device, as it held both 
important and sentimental data. Mrs H complained to Assurant. 
Mrs H said that she felt the terms and conditions of the policy said that if she couldnt provide 
the damaged device, her claim could be treated as if her device had been lost. Assurant told 
Mrs H that that policy term was only relevant when a policyholder physically couldnt return 
their items. They felt that Mrs H was able to return her damaged device, but had chosen not 
to, due to her concerns around the data. 
I understand that Mrs H brought a replacement device on 24 May 2022.
Assurant told Mrs H that the manufacturer of the damaged device had confirmed that there 
were ways that her device could be remotely wiped, but that the data would only be 
physically wiped once the device had connected to Wi-Fi.
Mrs H said that her device couldnt be connected to Wi-Fi. So she couldnt arrange for her 
data to be remotely wiped. She still felt it would be unreasonable to require her to send in 
her device containing all her data. Mrs H offered to return the damaged device after she had 
immersed it in salt water and then smashed it to pieces. She said she simply wanted to 
protect her personal data.
Mrs H told Assurant that she had health issues and that her dealings with them had caused 
her a great deal of upset. She asked them to record a separate complaint about her 
treatment.
Assurant suggested Mrs H spoke to the devices manufacturer to see if they could access 
the data on the device. They told Mrs H there was nothing further they could do if Mrs H was 
unwilling to send them the device. They said they would refund the £50 excess Mrs H had 
paid for her claim. 
I understand that Mrs H asked Assurant if they could cancel her policy and refund her 
premiums. Assurant said they could cancel, but that they couldnt offer a premium refund.  
Assurant issued their final response to the complaint on 24 May 2022. They said they hadnt 
identified any errors in the way their agents had handled calls with Mrs H. They repeated 
that they were unable to pay the claim unless Mrs H sent in the damaged device. And said 
they were satisfied that theyd acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mrs H told Assurant that all her attempts to erase the data from her device had failed. She 
said that she was now going to rely on the policy condition that stated that if a policyholder 
was unable to return the damaged device, it would be dealt with as a loss claim. She said 
there was no definition of unable within the policy wording. 
Mrs H also felt that even though it was clear that the device was irreparable, Assurant were 
insistent that she returned it. She felt they had unreasonably refused her alternative 
suggestions, such as sending video/photographic evidence of the damage, or further 
damaging it so that her data could definitely not be retrieved. She felt it was unreasonable 
and negligent for Assurant to require her to return the device with her private and personal 
data intact. Mrs H said that if she was able to erase the data, she would send the device to 
Assurant. But that as she couldnt erase the data, she wanted a cash settlement. 
Mrs H arranged for the manufacturer to look at the device, but they were unable to help. She 
said that theyd told her that they wouldn't advise her to send the device to Assurant without 
the data removed. She said theyd confirmed that her device was beyond repair. She asked 
Assurant to pay the claim without her sending the device to them. But they refused.
Assurant told Mrs H that if she could send in her device, their repair centres first job would 
be to wipe the device. And that if they were unable to do that, they would get a specialist to 
drill the device when they received it, so that the data couldnt be retrieved. Assurant told 
Mrs H that they required all their customers to go through the same process. 
Mrs H told Assurant that she still expected them to pay her claim. She felt theyd failed to 
follow the ICOBs rules relating to general insurers. 
Unhappy with Assurants responses, Mrs H brought her complaint to this service. She said 
shed offered to pay the salvage value of the device, but Assurant had declined. She said 
shed offered to drill holes through the device before she sent it in to protect her data, but 
theyd declined. She also wanted to complain about the poor service she felt shed received. 
She wanted Assurant to pay her claim and to provide compensation for the poor service.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt that the policys terms 
and conditions had made it clear that the old device had to be returned before the claim 
could be paid. 
Mrs H didnt agree with our investigator. She made the following points:
She felt Assurant were in breach of ICOBS rules 8.1.1, 8.1.2 and 8.1.3.
She said shed previously been a victim of a data breach which had caused her 
considerable stress. She didnt think it was reasonable for Assurant to require her to 
send in her unwiped device. She felt there were genuine and valid reasons why she 
couldnt send it to them. 
She felt that Assurant had acted unreasonably when theyd refused her perfectly 
reasonable suggestions to drill holes into her device, when they confirmed thats 
what they would do. And that theyd also been unreasonable to not accept her offer 
to deduct the salvage value of the device from the settlement figure.  Mrs H said she 
believed it was a deliberate attempt to avoid paying the claim. Mrs H felt that the manufacturer had confirmed to her that the device couldnt be 
repaired but that she should still not dispose of it without first deleting her personal 
data. She didnt agree with our investigator that it was unlikely that anyone could 
access the information on the device.
Mrs H also disputed our investigators interpretation of the policy wording. She noted 
that her policy wording had stated:
If you are unable to provide the damaged gadget to support your claim for a damage or 
breakdown incident, then this will be classified as a lost gadget.
She said there was no wording in her policy which actually defined this particular clause. 
And if it was reasonable to take the clause: "the device must be returned   at face value, 
this service should also fairly interpret unable, and allow her gadget to be classified as a 
lost gadget. She felt that no reasonable person would expect her to go against the advice of 
the manufacturer and provide the gadget with personal data intact. Mrs H said that although 
she now understood that the policy wording intended to refer to irretrievable devices, it didnt 
actually say that. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be very disappointing for Mrs H. 
Im satisfied that Assurant fairly declined her claim under the terms and conditions of her 
policy. And that they have treated her fairly. Ill explain why.
Assurant have told Mrs H that the policys terms and conditions require a damaged device to 
be returned to them for assessment. And that after that has been completed the device 
would either be repaired and returned, or a replacement  which might be a reconditioned 
device  would be provided. The terms of the policy also state that any returned device 
becomes Assurants property. They said that Mrs Hs claim couldnt continue unless she 
sent in the device.
Mrs H has strong reasons for not wanting to return her damaged device. Shes explained to 
this service why she is unable, and not unwilling, to return her device. She said: Not only is 
there the risk my [device] could fall into the wrong hands during transit, I have no control 
over who can access my personal data.  To send the [device] in now, as it is, would be 
irresponsible and any claim for identify theft would be rejected by the insurers for that very 
reason. I understand her reasoning. 
Mrs H felt shed submitted to Assurant evidence that her device was damaged beyond 
repair. And that the manufacturer didnt recommend that she sent her device without deleting 
her data. She also considers that the terms and conditions of the policy could be interpreted 
as allowing an item to be considered lost if the policyholder feels unable to return it to 
Assurant. 
The relevant wording in the terms and conditions is as follows:
If you are unable to provide the damaged gadget to support your claim for a damage or 
breakdown incident, then this will be classified as a lost gadget.
If your gadget is lost or stolen we will replace it with a gadget of the same make, model and 
memory size. 
However Assurant dont agree that the terms and conditions can be interpreted to allow a 
policyholder to fall back onto the lost provisions, when it is actually physically possible to 
return the item for which the claim is being made, as is the case here. They explained what 
steps they take to prevent a data breach, noting that they had never had a data breach while 
a device was in transit. They also felt it was unlikely that Mrs Hs data could be breached 
given she herself was unable to access it. Assurant also stated that they treat all of their 
policyholders in the same way. Assurant have also said that they deal with many devices 
sent with personal data. And that the data is always removed, by drilling the device if 
necessary.
Mrs H feels that Assurant havent treated her fairly. She said she offered to effect the 
removal of the data herself, by further damaging the device before sending it in. Assurant 
have declined Mrs Hs proposals on the basis that the device becomes their property 
following claim settlement. Theyve said that they need to assess the device themselves 
before deciding how to meet the claim. And if they found the device to be repairable they 
would do that and returned it to Mrs H. Or, if they found it to be irreparable they would 
provide a replacement, with the damaged device then becoming their property.  
I don't think it's unreasonable for Assurant to assess the device themselves before paying 
Mrs Hs claim. And Im satisfied theyve followed the same claims process they would follow 
for any other policyholder. I understand why Mrs H feels that the manufacturer didnt advise 
her to send in the device without removing the data first. But I dont consider the opinion of 
the agent she spoke to about her damaged device, which potentially was driven by how Mrs 
H had told him she felt, overtakes Assurants right to rely on their terms and conditions and 
to treat Mrs H as they would treat any other customer. 
Mrs H has specifically asked this service to consider whether Assurant ignored the ICOBS 
rules 8.1.1, 8.1.2 and 8.1.3. She felt that Assurant hadnt helped her with her claim. 
ICOBS are a code of conduct for insurers, which aim to ensure that customers are treated 
fairly. The rules state that an insurer must:
8.1.1 handle claims promptly and fairly;
8.1.2 provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate
information on its progress;
8.1.3 not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and
[8.1.4 settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.]
Mrs H felt that Assurant had ignored ICOBs 8.1.1, 8.1.2 and 8.1.3 above. Ive carefully 
considered whether I agreed that they had.
Ive already explained why Im satisfied that Assurant handled Mrs Hs claim fairly, and why I 
dont consider that they unreasonably rejected her claim. I also dont consider that Assurant 
failed to handle Mrs Hs claim promptly. I acknowledge that she felt they didnt handle her 
initial claim as quickly as they should have. But theyve shown that they did. I also consider that Assurant took reasonable steps to provide reasonable guidance to held 
Mrs H make her claim. I say this because they explained what she would need to do for her 
claim to be successful. And while I acknowledge that they turned down what Mrs H 
considered were her reasonable alternatives to their usual process, I dont consider that they 
acted unreasonably or unhelpfully. Overall, I dont consider that Assurant ignored the ICOBs 
rules.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mrs H. Im sorry that she has previously been a 
victim of a data breach. And that her claim has caused her so much upset.  But I cant 
reasonably uphold her complaint. Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Assurant to 
have declined her claim. And that theyve treated her as they wouldve treated any other 
policyholder. 
My final decision
For the reasons described above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman