DRN-4282583
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost after falling victim 
to a scam.
What happened
In summer 2022, Mr L saw an advert on social media for a cryptocurrency investing website. 
He gave the website his contact details and entered into discussions over a messaging app. 
Mr L felt the website was genuine as it looked professional, it was advertised on social 
media, they made him do ID checks, and they gave him his own account. However, it turned 
out to be a scam.
The scammers told Mr L they would increase his investment 10-fold in just 24 days. Mr L 
paid some initial money to them through another bank account of his. He then took out an 
£8,000 personal loan, had it paid into his Monzo account, and forwarded £7,500 of that to 
another cryptocurrency platform and then on to the scammers. 
Mr L reported the scam to Monzo shortly afterwards. Monzo contacted the cryptocurrency 
platform, but was unable to recover any of the funds. Monzo didnt think it was liable for 
Mr Ls loss, as hed initially paid the money to a cryptocurrency account in his own name, 
and because it felt the account activity was not unusual.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint in part, 
recommending that Monzo refund 50% of the loss, as well as some simple interest on Mr Ls 
loan repayments. Monzo didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr L authorised the payment involved, even if he didnt intend for the 
money to go to scammers. So, under the Payment Services Regulations and the terms of his 
account, Mr L is liable for the loss in the first instance. But the matter doesnt end there.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Monzo 
should have fairly and reasonably:
Monitored accounts and payments to counter risks such as fraud and scams;
Had systems in place to look out for particularly unusual transactions or other signs 
its customers were at risk of fraud;
In some circumstances, taken further steps or made further checks before a payment 
went out, or even blocked it, to help protect customers  irrespective of the type of 
payment involved.
I accept that there must be a balance struck between responding to potentially fraudulent 
payments and ensuring theres minimal disruption to legitimate ones. But in this case, I think 
the payment involved stands out as being remarkable, so I think it should have prompted 
Monzo to intervene.
Mr L received a very substantial loan, then quickly forwarded on nearly all of it to a new 
payee. The amounts involved were many times larger than the amounts Mr L normally 
handled in this account. Ive reviewed Mr Ls account activity in the months leading up to the 
scam, and I cant see any comparable activity. Monzo pointed out that Mr L had previously 
received his income and then transferred it to another account of his. But as it well knows, 
theres a huge difference between sending on ones normal income to ones other bank 
account, and receiving a loan for over 10x ones highest prior transactions then forwarding it 
to a crypto site. By 2022, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and Action Fraud had 
published warnings about cryptocurrency scams, so Monzo shouldve had a good 
understanding of the risk of these scams and how they work.
So I think Monzo ought reasonably to have made person-to-person enquiries with Mr L 
about this payment before it processed it. Had Monzo intervened and asked reasonable 
questions, I think it would have most likely come to light that Mr L was being scammed. 
Given the wholly unrealistic returns promised, the pressure sales tactics applied, the lack of 
any proper documents or paperwork, the website being unregulated, the intelligence Monzo 
had received about crypto scams from the regulator and Action Fraud  and so on  Im 
satisfied it ought to have identified this was most likely a scam and warned Mr L or stopped 
the payment altogether.
Ive seen no good reason to think Mr L would not have been honest with Monzo about why 
he was sending this payment  he thought he was making a genuine investment, and the 
scammers hadnt told him to lie if questioned. Ive also seen no reason why Mr L would not 
have listened to Monzo  it is a well-known name in banking, and he accepted he was not an 
experienced investor.
Monzo argued that it could not be held liable for the loss because the transfer was to a 
receiving account in Mr Ls name. First, it would not have known that at the time  and even 
if it had identified that the crypto account was in Mr Ls name, it should have been on notice 
about crypto scams. Second, Monzo was still obliged to look out for potentially fraudulent 
payments, even if they were going to another account in the customers name. And 
identifying and preventing such scam payments would still have the effect of preventing a 
loss to its customer. So Monzo can still be held liable for a loss that resulted from its failure 
to intervene  which is what Ive found to have most likely been the case here.
So I find that Monzo bears some liability for Mr Ls loss here.Ive also thought carefully about Mr Ls role in what happened. I understand why Mr L 
thought the scam website might be genuine, and I understand that his decision-making may 
have been impaired due to a medical condition. But Im afraid I cant see that Mr L carried 
out any reasonable due diligence before paying the scammers. And I think he ought to have 
had more concerns along the way about what he was being told. For example, the returns 
promised were concerningly unrealistic, he wasnt given any paperwork or other evidence 
which verified what he was being told, the scammers used unprofessional language and 
poor grammar, and so on.
So I cant fairly hold Monzo solely responsible for Mr Ls losses. I think Mr L should also bear 
some responsibility for those losses. I think the fairest thing is for each side to be held liable 
for 50% of the loss. I also think Monzo should pay some simple interest on Mr Ls loan 
repayments to date. This will help acknowledge that because Monzo didnt accept any 
liability for its role in things going wrong, nor redress any of the loss before now, Mr L has 
had to keep up his loan payments and hasnt been able to arrange to settle the account.
Lastly, Ive considered whether Monzo should have done more to try to recover Mr Ls 
money. But I can see that Monzo contacted the receiving account with the speed wed 
expect it to. And as the transfer went to Mr Ls own crypto account, and the funds had been 
spent, Im afraid there wasnt anything more that Monzo could really do there.
Putting things right
Monzo Bank Ltd should:
Refund 50% of the £7,500 scam payment, totalling £3,750.
Pay Mr L simple interest on the loan repayments hes made up to the date of this 
decision, at the rate of 8% simple per year, payable from the date of each repayment 
until the date Monzo pays the redress.
If Monzo considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct tax from 
that simple interest, it should tell Mr L how much tax its taken off. It should also give Mr L a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one. Mr L may be able to reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
he doesnt normally pay tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part, and direct Monzo Bank Ltd 
to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
If Mr L accepts the final decision, Monzo Bank Ltd must pay him within 28 days of the date 
our service notifies it of the acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman