DRN-3879711
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Nationwide Building Society wont refund transactions she says 
she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In early 2022, Miss Hs online banking was used to send two large transfers. This was done 
using her card and PIN, and passcodes sent to her mobile phone. Nationwide held Miss H 
liable for the payments in dispute.
Miss H explained that she didnt know the recipient, and was absolutely sure no one had 
asked her to make the payments. She had not received any suspicious communications 
beforehand. She had not lost her card, and it was safe in a purse at home where she lived 
alone. No one else knew her PIN, and it was not recorded anywhere. Shed also not 
recorded her online banking details or told them to anyone except an ex-partner. Her phone 
did not go missing, it was PIN-protected, and no one else had access to it. She was certain 
no one she knew couldve done this as she had her phone with her. 
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found there was not a likely or plausible way the payments couldve been made without 
Miss Hs consent.
Miss Hs representative appealed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly speaking, Nationwide can hold Miss H liable for the payments in dispute if the 
evidence suggests that she authorised them.
Im satisfied from Nationwides technical evidence that the payments in dispute were made 
using Miss Hs online banking facility, along with a card reader that read Miss Hs genuine 
card and the correct PIN, and passcodes that were sent to Miss Hs genuine mobile phone 
number. So I can see that these transactions were properly authenticated. The question, 
then, is whether the evidence suggests that its most likely Miss H consented to the 
transactions, or not.
Having carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided, I dont think 
its unreasonable for Nationwide to hold Miss H liable for the transactions in dispute. I realise 
this will come as a disappointment to Miss H, though it is not my intention to disappoint her. 
Ill explain my reasons.
First, Ive considered the possibility that the payments were made by someone who Miss H 
didnt know  i.e. a third-party thief or fraudster.
The payments were authenticated using Miss Hs genuine card and PIN, which had been 
read by a card reader. Miss Hs card was kept safe at home, so I dont see a likely or 
plausible way a fraudster would have accessed it. Further, Miss H still had her card 
afterwards  and its not plausible that a fraudster would take the effort and risk of accessing 
her home again just to give her card back, nor that they could do so without her noticing.
Miss Hs PIN was not recorded anywhere or shared with anyone. She hadnt made any 
payments with her physical card and PIN in the days before, so there was no recent 
opportunity for someone to watch her entering her PIN. And its very unlikely indeed that 
someone could have just guessed the PIN outright. So theres no likely or plausible way a 
fraudster would have known Miss Hs PIN, either.
Similarly, Miss Hs online banking details were not recorded anywhere, and shed only told 
them to an ex-partner, who she did not suspect. So its unclear how an unknown third party 
couldve learned her online banking security details.
The payments were also made using passcodes sent to Miss Hs phone, at the same phone 
number she gave us. And Miss Hs mobile banking app was also accessed during the period 
the disputed payments were being setup and made, at the IP address she used for genuine 
spending. Miss H confirmed shed not received any suspicious calls, texts, or emails 
beforehand which might indicate someone was trying to gain access to her phone. She had 
her phone with her at the time, no one else had access to it, it did not go missing, she still 
had it afterwards, and it was protected with its own PIN. So again, I dont see a likely or 
plausible way that a fraudster couldve used Miss Hs phone without her consent.
Lastly, I mightve expected a thief to try to take as much money as possible, as quickly as 
possible. But the person using Miss Hs account started to set up the new payee days before 
making the disputed payments. And they left a very significant balance remaining and did 
not attempt further payments, even though they clearly had full access to the account. While 
this is a more minor point, it also points to it being unlikely that a fraudster did this.
So I dont see a likely or plausible way that an unknown party did this.
Next, Ive considered the possibility that someone known to Miss H may have made the 
transactions without her permission, such as a friend, family member, or ex-partner. But 
I dont think thats likely or plausible either. Again, theres not a likely way they couldve had 
access to Miss Hs card, PIN, and phone at the time without her consent and without her 
ever noticing. And Miss H felt sure nobody she knew couldve done this, so it seems shes 
effectively ruled out this possibility herself. Miss Hs representative suggested the issue was internal to Nationwide. While I understand 
why he thought to raise this, there is no evidence which shows or substantiates this in any 
reasonable sense. As I said, Im satisfied from the technical evidence that these payments 
were properly authenticated, and were not mislabelled as legitimate as he suggested. The 
representative also pointed out that Miss H had had some further disputed payments, and 
again I understand why he thought to raise this. But those were made using a completely 
different method to the ones in this case, during a separate incident much later, and were 
refunded. I dont find that theyre related. Miss H can make a separate complaint about that 
issue if she feels Nationwide didnt handle those other payments appropriately.
Lastly, Ive considered the possibility that the disputed payments were made with Miss Hs 
permission. Im afraid this possibility fits very well with the evidence at hand  given that 
Miss Hs card, PIN, security details, and phone were used, and no one else had access to all 
of those without her permission.
Further, I can see that while the disputed payments were being set up and made, Miss H 
logged in to her mobile app from her usual IP address a number of times. So she wouldve 
seen the disputed activity going on at the time. She even made genuine payments to her 
representative in between the activity she disputes. And Ive not seen any evidence that 
makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Miss H couldve authorised these payments or 
given someone else permission to make them for her.
In summary, Im satisfied that Miss Hs genuine online banking facility, card, PIN, and phone 
were used to authenticate these payments properly. Based on the evidence, there isnt a 
likely way an unknown person did this, or that someone known to Miss H did this without her 
permission. That leaves only one likely possibility  that Miss H made the transactions or 
gave someone else permission to make them. This is a difficult message for me to give, and 
I know its a difficult message for Miss H to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the 
balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
So based on everything Ive seen, I think its fair for Nationwide to decline a refund here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint in this case.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman