DRN-4248908
The complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc closed her current account.
What happened
On 29 November 2022 Barclays sent Miss C a letter advising her that it would be closing her 
account on 30 January 2023. 
Miss C was unhappy with this and contacted Barclays to complain. Barclays didnt uphold 
her complaint. It said the closure of her account had been carefully considered and was 
subject to a strict internal review but that it couldnt provide her with the guidelines used. 
It said it had given the required notice and had made the correct decision. And so on 30 
January 2023 it closed her account. 
Miss C remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our Service. She said shed been 
given different answers about the reasons behind the closure; she felt the bank had made a 
mistake and was trying to cover it up. Miss C also advised the closure had had a significant 
impact on her because she was receiving payments from an abusive ex-partner into that 
account and she couldnt continue to receive these without providing the ex-partner with her 
personal details.
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and was of the opinion that Barclays had acted 
fairly. They said it had given Miss C the required notice and didnt have to provide a reason 
behind the account closure. They also noted that Miss C hadnt informed Barclays of the 
payment from her ex-partner and her concerns around this. So, they said Barclays couldnt 
have taken this into consideration when closing the account. They also offered to liaise with 
Barclays about her particular circumstances and whether it would consider reopening the 
account in light of this new information. 
Miss C didnt accept the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has now been passed to 
me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was really sorry to hear about Miss Cs difficult circumstances. I have no doubt that the 
closure of her bank account was an additional stress and I dont underestimate the impact 
this would have had on her.
That being said, my role is to consider if Barclays has acted fairly. So, I think it would be 
helpful to begin by explaining that whilst account closures are incredibly inconvenient and 
potentially upsetting for the customer involved, this in itself does not make them unfair. 
Under the terms and conditions of Miss Cs account, Barclays did have the right to close the 
account by giving at least two months notice. There was nothing within the terms and 
conditions that limited this to particular circumstances or for particular reasons  ultimately, 
according to the agreement, Barclays could choose to close the account at any time in much 
the same way as Miss C, as a customer, could choose to leave Barclays.
Its clear Barclays gave Miss C the required notice and so I think its actions were in line with 
the terms and conditions. And, having carefully reviewed the evidence sent by both parties, 
Ive seen nothing that persuades me this closure was unfair. 
In reaching this opinion Ive considered Miss Cs particular circumstances in relation to her 
abusive ex-partners payments. However, Miss C says she didnt tell Barclays about this and 
Im satisfied Barclays couldnt have taken into account something that it wasnt aware of. 
Whilst Miss C has told us she doesnt feel Barclays gave her the opportunity to provide this 
information, I can see Miss C had contact with Barclays on multiple occasions about her 
complaint. So, Im not persuaded Barclays did anything wrong here.
As an aside, Im aware that our Investigator has since informed Barclays of Miss Cs 
circumstances. Barclays has indicated that it has considered this new information but that it 
requires additional evidence for it to reopen the account. I dont intend to comment on this 
further within this decision as it does not form part of Miss Cs original complaint. 
Miss C is also unhappy that Barclays hasnt properly explained the reasons behind its 
decision to close her account. Looking at the account notes and what Miss C has told our 
Service, I can see that she was told that:
Barclays can close an account at anytime if it believes a customer has broken the 
terms of the agreement.
The decision to close Miss Cs account was a commercial one.
Barclays doesnt disclose its guidelines.
Having considered these comments, I cant say any are inaccurate. Whilst Barclays has 
asked that I dont share with Miss C the reason it decided to close her account, I am satisfied 
that this wasnt simply a mistake, that the decision wasnt based on unfair factors and, 
ultimately, its a decision the bank is entitled to make. And whilst I appreciate it must have 
been frustrating to not be given the reason behind the closure, Barclays isnt required to 
provide its rationale and so I cant say it has acted unfairly in not fully explaining its decision 
to Miss C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman