DRN-3343799
The complaint
Mr D complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt settled a cancellation claim he made 
on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with his building society.
In January 2020, Mr D booked a holiday abroad through a travel agent Ill call S. He was due 
to travel in December 2020.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr D rescheduled his trip for March 2021. 
But in January 2021, the UK government imposed new restrictions on movement, commonly 
referred to as lockdown. And the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) 
had advised against all but essential travel abroad. So Mr D decided to cancel his trip. 
S paid Mr D a cash refund of £2130 and it offered him a credit voucher for the remaining 
value of his deposit - £1200. The voucher was valid for five years. Mr D didnt wish to accept 
the credit voucher though, so he made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the cost of 
his deposit.
UKI turned down Mr Ds claim. It said that the policy only covered financial losses a 
policyholders suffered. As S had offered Mr D a credit voucher for the outstanding value of 
his deposit, UKI said he hadnt suffered a financial loss. It said the policy terms specifically 
excluded losses which could be recovered from elsewhere. It also suggested that Mr D 
would be able to rebook his holiday in the future for broadly the same cost.
Mr D was unhappy with UKIs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought UKI had treated Mr D fairly. He thought the evidence showed that S 
had offered Mr D a voucher for the full amount of his deposit payment. And he noted the 
expiry date of the voucher. He didnt think the terms of the voucher were overly restrictive 
and he felt it was fair for UKI to conclude that Mr D had recovered his loss.
Mr D disagreed. He felt the investigators conclusion was absurd and he didnt accept it. He 
said he had no intention of returning to the same holiday destination and he wouldnt use S 
again when it charges several thousand pounds more than other operators. He felt it was 
beyond belief to say he hadnt suffered a financial loss.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, I think it was fair for UKI to turn down his 
claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about, amongst other 
things, the terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy and the circumstances of his claim, to 
decide whether UKI handled it fairly. 
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr Ds contract with UKI. 
The cancellation section of the policy sets out the insured events it covers for unused costs 
a policyholder incurs if they need to cancel their trip. One of these insured events is the 
FCDO advising against all but essential travel to a policyholders pre-booked destination. In 
this case, theres no dispute that Mr Ds holiday was cancelled as a result of the FCDO 
advising against all but essential travel. So I can understand why Mr D feels that UKI should 
pay his claim for his unused deposit. 
But the cancellation section of the policy also includes a list of things that UKI doesnt cover. 
One of these states that UKI wont pay for any expenses that a policyholder can recover 
from elsewhere. 
UKI says that as S offered Mr D a credit voucher for the value of his deposit; he hasnt 
suffered a financial loss for this booking which is covered by the policy. And I think the policy 
wording makes it clear that UKI doesnt cover costs which can be recovered or got back from 
elsewhere. 
Ive next considered the terms of S credit voucher. Ive seen copies of email 
correspondence from S. In February 2021, S stated we are still willing to offer a £1200 credit 
note for the duration of 5 years. £1200 was the amount outstanding following S cash refund 
of some of the deposit costs. The remainder of the deposit, which Mr D had paid S and 
which UKI was insuring, remained with S and available for Mr Ds use. So I think it was fair 
for UKI to conclude that Mr D hadnt suffered a financial loss for this booking at that point, 
because the credit voucher would cover the full value of the remaining deposit. 
Its clear Mr D feels strongly that its unfair for UKI to reach such a conclusion, as he says 
prices have significantly increased and that he has no intention to rebook through S. Ive 
thought carefully about this. But I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to conclude that Mr 
D would most likely be in a position to use the credit voucher in the future and within a five-
year period, given the length of the vouchers validity. And in my view, the terms of the credit 
voucher arent overly restrictive. Mr D doesnt appear to be limited to booking within a 
particular week during the year, or at a specific time. Mr D also told us that he had fairly 
recently travelled to the same holiday destination, albeit through a different travel agent, so it 
seems this was still a destination he was interested in visiting at the point UKI assessed his 
claim. 
I can understand why Mr D would prefer to get a cash refund for his booking with S, given 
that travel plans currently remain somewhat uncertain. But, as Ive set out above, on the 
evidence before me, I think it was fair and reasonable for UKI to conclude that Mr D hasnt 
demonstrated hes suffered a financial loss for his booking with S. Im aware too that Mr D is 
unhappy because he feels that when UKI looked into his claim, it quoted rebooking prices 
which didnt reflect the amount hed actually have to pay to rebook his trip. While I appreciate 
why this mightve been frustrating for Mr D, I dont think this makes a difference to UKIs 
overall assessment of the claim. Thats because Im satisfied UKI fairly considered that Mr D 
had recovered his financial loss through S offer of the credit voucher. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman