DRN-3389011
The complaint
Mr A complains about the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) in relation
to a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme that he held. Portal processed the 
transfer of Mr As DB scheme benefits to a personal pension with an income drawdown 
facility on an insistent client basis. Mr A says Portal should have clearly recommended that 
he didnt transfer and take early retirement from his scheme instead. Mr A says hes suffered 
a loss as a result of Portals actions.
What happened
Mr A approached Portal in late 2014 in response to an advert, which he says was about 
withdrawing money from a pension after the age of 55. He says he wasnt working at this 
time and hed incurred some debts that he wanted to clear. 
Mr A says he put things on hold for a few months while he discussed matters with his 
mortgage lender  so in August 2015 Portal completed a fact-find to gather information 
about Mr As circumstances and objectives. It also carried out an assessment of Mr As 
attitude to risk, which it deemed to be balanced. On 4 September 2015 Portal sent Mr A a 
letter saying that it recommended he didnt transfer his DB pension scheme benefits 
because the growth rate required to match his guaranteed benefits was too high at 11.4% 
and because hed be giving up a guaranteed pension of just under £7,000 a year from age 
65 and a cash lump sum of over £14,000. But Portal said it could still help Mr A if he wanted 
to go ahead and it asked him to complete and return the enclosed insistent client form.
On 16 September 2015 Mr A returned the insistent client form. Where asked, Mr A indicated 
on the form that he acknowledged his new pension was unlikely to achieve the required 
growth rate and that he was giving up guaranteed benefits.
On 19 September 2015 Portal sent Mr A its suitability report setting out the advice. The 
report outlined Mr As circumstances at the time, which in summary said that he was 58; 
currently unemployed and in receipt of state benefits; he owned his own home with an 
outstanding mortgage, which included arrears of £6,000; he had no other assets or liabilities; 
and he had no disposable income.
The report went on to set out the details of Mr As existing DB pension scheme, which
included the transfer value and the amount of pension Mr A could expect from his scheme at
age 65. It also said the critical yield required to match Mr As existing scheme benefits was
11.4%.
The report said that Mr As objective was to access his tax-free cash entitlement to pay off 
his mortgage arrears and to settle an outstanding funeral bill.
Portal noted that it had explored with Mr A other ways to generate the money required to
meet his objective - but said that he didnt have sufficient assets to raise the cash required,
or enough disposable income, and he didnt want to take on further lending.
The report then set out Portals recommendation. It said that it had already recommended
that Mr A shouldnt transfer out of his DB pension scheme because of the benefits he would
be giving up  but it said that Mr A had decided to disregard the advice and that it would be
treating him as an insistent client. It went on to propose that Mr A transfer his pension to
enable him to meet his objective and it set out which pension provider and product it
recommended.
Mr A signed the relevant application forms in December 2015  he also signed a declaration 
to say that he understood the critical yield was now higher at 13% - and the transfer went 
ahead. Mr A received his tax-free cash payment and the proceeds were invested in a range 
of funds, which Portal deemed matched Mr As attitude to risk.
In 2016 Mr A appears to have sought further advice from Portal and he accessed a further 
tax-free cash lump sum.
In 2020 Mr A complained, via a representative to Portal about the advice he received.
It doesnt appear that Portal provided Mr A with a final response letter to his complaint  so 
he referred his complaint to our service.
An investigator considered the matter and they concluded that Mr As complaint should be 
upheld. In summary they said Portal didnt explicitly set out in detail what its advice was  
they also said Mr A signed the insistent client forms before the advice was formally 
presented to him. They went on to say that not all the alternatives available to Mr A to meet 
his objective were considered  importantly that he couldve taken early retirement from his 
existing scheme. They said this shouldve formed the basis of the suitable advice he was 
given. They concluded by saying that they werent persuaded Mr As attitude to risk was 
balanced  they thought the process in determining this was flawed in Mr As case.
Portal disagreed. In summary it said:
it acted fair and reasonably with Mr As best interests in mind.
It advised against the transfer and explained the benefits Mr A would be giving up  
but he clearly selected the option to go against its recommendation.
its telephone and correspondence led business model meant clients had time to 
digest information without any pressure.
it did explore all options available to Mr A including the early retirement option  but it 
said that during the fact-find appointment Mr A indicated he didnt require an income 
so the option wasnt presented to him by the adviser.
it believes the evidence suggests Mr A would have transferred out of his DB scheme 
with or without its involvement because of his language throughout the process and 
his strong objective to release funds early.
overall it believes it obtained and provided sufficient material to Mr A to enable him to 
make a well-informed decision.
Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind, the case was passed to
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by
the investigator. My reasons are set out below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it
is unsuitable. So, Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr As best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
A key aspect in this case is Portals categorisation of Mr A as an insistent client - this is a
client that wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended
and wants the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice.
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of
insistent clients. But there were rules in the regulators Handbook which required Portal to 
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. In 
addition, COBS required Portal to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
So, Portals recommendation had to be clear and Mr A had to have understood the 
consequences of going against the recommendation.
Portal says that it acted fairly and reasonably and in Mr As best interests. Mr A says that he 
should have been advised to take early retirement from his existing scheme, which would 
have provided him with the cash he needed to pay off his debts yet still provided him with 
valuable defined benefit rights instead of being given insistent client documents to sign.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence presented, I think there were weaknesses
and failings in Portals advice process, which meant it didnt act in Mr As best interests. And
I think Mr A likely understood or believed overall that Portal was recommending he should
go ahead with the transfer.
I say this because on 4 September 2015 following the telephone discussion Portal had with 
Mr A about his pension options, it sent him what I think can only reasonably be described as
a brief letter with the outcome of its advice. It said that because of the growth rate required to
match Mr As guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme and because hed be giving up a
guaranteed pension of around £7,000 a year from age 65, it recommended Mr A should not 
transfer away from his DB scheme to access a tax-free cash lump sum. 
In this situation Id expect the emphasis of the documentation to be the reasons why the 
transfer was not in Mr As best interests. But the information on this form was limited to the 
loss of guarantees and the growth required to match his existing benefits. While Portal later 
sent a more detailed suitability report, which I will refer to later on, at this stage Mr A had 
little information to go off to decide if being an insistent client was truly in his best interests.
Yet immediately underneath the brief summary of why Portal recommended Mr A should not
transfer away from his DB scheme, it said that he could go about doing it regardless, by
effecting his right to transfer on an insistent client basis. 
And while it said this would be against Portals recommendation, it enclosed the necessary 
forms Mr A needed to complete and return to pursue this option. And option 1 he was 
presented with was to go against Portals advice  the second option was to do nothing as 
per its recommendation. It strikes me that Portals process here was geared towards 
facilitating the transfer.
I think if Portal firmly believed in its advice and recommendation and it was acting in Mr As
best interests, not only would it have given more detail upfront and placed greater emphasis
on the reasons why the transfer wasnt in Mr As best interests, it also wouldnt have told himat the same time as delivering its recommendation - albeit a brief one - how he could put it
aside and bypass it. I think the wording and the emphasis placed on how Mr A could ignore
Portals recommendation was unfair to Mr A and wasnt in his best interests.
I dont think it was in Mr As best interest to go against Portals recommendation  yet Portal
made it very easy for him to do so. I also think, given the context and the emphasis placed
on this, that Mr A could reasonably have interpreted this overall that Portal was 
recommending he go ahead and transfer.
I think it ought to have been clear to Portal that Mr A had very little knowledge or experience 
of financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. For example
theres nothing recorded on the assets section of the fact-find, which suggests Mr A was an
experienced investor  in fact it appears he was completely inexperienced.
Im mindful too that in carrying out the assessment of Mr As attitude to risk, which it deemed
to be balanced  albeit I dont think this accurately reflects Mr As true attitude to risk - it 
asked him a number of questions, the answers to which I think shouldve put Portal on notice 
that it had to be careful if it was to take matters through the insistent client route. For 
example Mr A agreed that he would be described by others as a cautious person; he didnt 
find investment matters easy to understand; and most importantly in my view, he indicated 
that he tended to be anxious about the investment decisions he made.
I also think Mr A was in a vulnerable position at the time of the advice  he was unemployed 
having recently stopped working because of ill health and a close relative had recently died. I 
think this only adds weight to my view that Portal should been on notice that it had to be 
careful if it was to take matters through the insistent client route.
I can see that Mr As insistent client forms included a section where he put in his own words
why he wanted to access his pension monies early. And while I think this was good practice,
I dont think what Mr A wrote adequately demonstrates that he knew and understood the 
risks involved and the recommendation being made. I say this not only because the majority 
of the form was pre-completed and Mr A simply had to tick a box to say that he understood, 
but crucially as I indicated earlier on, he hadnt yet received Portals full suitability report and 
had time to digest it before deciding to go ahead anyway. So Im not persuaded Mr A was 
able to make an informed choice here.
It was only after receiving Mr As confirmation that he wanted to proceed with the transfer
that Portal sent Mr A its full suitability report. And while this repeated the recommendation
not to transfer out of the DB scheme, this was followed by a positive recommendation,
advising Mr A to transfer his benefits to facilitate a flexible drawdown pension. And this was
all set out under a heading titled Our recommendation.
In order to fulfil the regulators requirements under COBS 9.2, Portal needed to give Mr A
advice on the overall suitability of the transaction envisaged, that is the transfer and the
choice of pension and investment. 
Instead, it first gave Mr A advice on the advice to transfer, and only considered the suitability 
of the proposed alternative in the full suitability report after securing Mr As confirmation to 
proceed on an insistent client basis.
So, by recommending that Mr A transfer his benefits to a particular scheme, not only did this 
completely undermine the recommendation not to transfer, I think Portal has effectively 
recommended that he transfer out of his DB scheme. If Portal didnt think that transferring 
out of the DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement was in Mr As best interests, it 
needed to ensure that it gave clear advice that the whole of the transaction was unsuitable for him. It couldnt separate out the elements. For this reason, I think on receipt of the full 
suitability report Mr A likely believed Portal was recommending he transfer out of the DB 
scheme, and it was reasonable for him to do so.
Mr As objective was to clear some mortgage arrears and pay off an outstanding funeral 
expenses bill. Because Mr A didnt have any savings at his immediate disposal and given 
the nature of the debts I accept that he had a pressing need for access to a cash lump sum. 
But it strikes me that Mr As objective could have been reasonably met by an alternative that 
was already available to him and which should have formed part of Portals advice before it 
continued to facilitate an irreversible transaction to transfer his pension.
The alternatives that were explored by Portal were in my view inappropriate given Mr As 
current circumstances. For example, further borrowing or re-mortgaging was recorded as 
being discussed  yet Mr A had mortgage arrears and he was out of work. Neither of these 
were plausible nor realistic options for Mr A. But what was available and in my view should 
have been properly considered was Mr A taking early retirement from his existing scheme. 
Despite what Portal says, it seems to me that Mr As objective could have been met this 
way. I dont think it was necessary for Mr A to transfer his pension benefits away to achieve 
things.
Portal says early retirement from Mr As existing scheme was considered at the time, but it 
says it wasnt presented as an option by the adviser because Mr A had indicated in the fact-
find meeting that he didnt need an income. But it was Portals role to discern what Mr As 
wants and needs were. And I think it should have been abundantly clear to Portal that 
alongside the need for a cash lump sum Mr A also had a need for income. I say this because 
its recorded that Mr A wasnt working and that he was in receipt of benefits, which were 
barely covering his recorded expenditure. Mr A has told us that it was ill health, which 
caused him to stop working in 2014 and effectively retire early. So it doesnt appear there 
was any reasonable prospect of Mr A returning to paid work.
Because Mr A was over the age of 55, his existing scheme would have allowed early 
retirement (I also think his poor health wouldve been a good reason in any event to have 
allowed it.) And according to the research carried out by Portal at the time in the transfer 
analysis report, Mr As existing scheme would have provided him with a sufficient tax-free 
lump sum of approximately £12,500 to meet his objective of clearing his debts, as well as 
providing him with a guaranteed and increasing income  approximately £4,900 at the 
outset. I accept these benefits were lower than Mr A could expect at his normal scheme 
retirement age of 65 due to him taking his benefits early. But as Ive already said, the lump 
sum was enough to meet Mr As needs and the income was higher than he was currently 
receiving in benefits - so I think it was sufficient to have reasonably met his expenditure 
needs.
I accept there were no specific insistent client rules at the time. But I consider the
rules and guidance that were in place at the time were clear that Portal had to act with due
care and skill and in Mr As best interests. And by not seeking to properly address Mr As
objectives and fully consider and provide him with the option of him taking early retirement 
from his existing scheme, Im not persuaded this was acting in Mr As best interest.
Ultimately I dont think Mr A was able to make an informed choice here  it seems to me that 
he most likely went ahead with the transfer because, in the absence of being clearly told 
about his early retirement option, he believed this was the only way to meet his objective.Furthermore I cant ignore that I think Portal actually gave Mr A a positive recommendation 
to transfer out of the scheme, which in the circumstances I think wouldve given him the 
impression that Portal agreed with his approach.
Overall and on balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to
conclude the process Portal followed meant that Mr A can truly be regarded as an insistent
client - I think Portal made it altogether too easy to agree that he was an insistent client.
Portals overall communication with Mr A wasnt clear or fair, it didnt allow him time to
think carefully about the advice not to go ahead with the transfer and it didnt provide him 
with the suitable option of taking early retirement from his existing scheme. It didnt act in Mr 
As best interests. And it failed to act with due care and skill.
I now need to consider if things had happened as they should have, whether Mr A wouldve 
still gone ahead. Portal says that Mr A would have transferred out of his scheme with or 
without its involvement because of the language hes used throughout and his strong 
objective. But I disagree. I think if Portal has acted in Mr As best interests, providing a 
recommendation on the suitability of the whole of the transaction envisaged at the outset, 
and addressing Mr As true needs at the time by clearly advising him of his early retirement 
option, I dont think Mr A wouldve insisted on going ahead with the transfer. As Ive said 
above, I dont consider Mr A was an experienced investor such that he had the requisite 
knowledge, skill, or confidence to against the advice he was given. I think given this and his 
vulnerable position he relied solely on the advice and process Portal employed.
So if things had happened as they should have, I think Mr A wouldve remained in his DB 
scheme and taken early retirement from it to meet his objective.
In closing - as I indicated above I have concerns about the manner in which Portal arrived at 
Mr As attitude to risk of balanced. It seems to me that because Mr A answered a number of 
the assessment questions as no strong opinion this impacted the score and appears to 
have increased his risk profile. I can see that the risk profile tool refers to this potential and 
suggests the adviser might want to discuss this with their client because it might indicate a 
lack of understanding of the questions being asked of them. I think this was relevant in Mr 
As case - but Ive not seen any evidence Portal discussed this further with Mr A. Had it done 
so, I think Mr As attitude to risk would have been deemed to be lower and more towards the 
cautious end of the scale. 
But in any event, because I dont think the transfer would have taken place had things 
happened as they should have, this doesnt affect my decision.  
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr A, as far as possible, into
the position he would now be in but for Portals failings. I consider Mr A would have most
likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given and the correct process
followed.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
Because I think Mr A would have taken early retirement from his DB scheme if things had 
happened as they should have, I think compensation should be based on him accessing his 
benefits at age 58.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the mostrecent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr As acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr As
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr As SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr As pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. 
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount
must where possible be paid to Mr A within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of
his acceptance of my final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of
90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr A.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial
Services LLP to pay Mr A the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr A any interest on that amount in full, as set out
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr  any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend thatPortal Financial Services LLP pays Mr A the balance. I would additionally recommend any
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr A.
If Mr A accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial
Services LLP.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman