DRN-3949450
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled a claim for a problem 
with his boiler under his home emergency policy.
References to Aviva include their agents who provide services and deal with claims under 
the policy.
This decision covers Mr Cs complaint under the home emergency section of his home 
insurance policy, the insurer of which was Aviva. 
What happened
In late December 2021, Mr C had a problem with his boiler, leaving him without heating. Mr 
C thought the issue was with a fan and found a source for a reconditioned fan. He contacted 
Aviva, who sent two engineers to inspect the boiler later that day. They confirmed the fan 
needed replacing but told Mr C they were only able to source parts from Avivas approved 
suppliers. And the part was probably obsolete. But this couldnt be confirmed until the spare 
parts team (and approved suppliers) returned after the new year break. Mr C was told a 
reconditioned fan would be unlikely to be acceptable to Aviva, as theyd had past issues with 
the supplier Mr C contacted. 
Mr C was then told by Aviva the part was obsolete, and a reconditioned fan wouldnt be 
acceptable. So, the boiler was deemed to be beyond economical repair. Under the terms of 
the policy, Aviva issued a payment of £500 towards a replacement boiler.
Mr C was unhappy at Avivas decision and being left without heating for a week while they 
reached their decision, so he complained. His complaint was about the time taken to 
determine his boiler was beyond economical repair; that Aviva wouldnt consider using a fan 
from the supplier Mr C had contacted; and he had been told incorrect information about his 
policy (in the circumstances where a boiler was repaired through a non-approved supplier). 
Aviva upheld the complaint in part. In their final response, they apologised for the length of 
time it took to deem the boiler beyond economical repair. Regarding their refusal to source a 
fan from the supplier Mr C found, they said the fan was a reconditioned unit and at their 
discretion which suppliers they sourced parts. They also referred to the terms and conditions 
of the policy that stated they would not fit parts supplied by the policyholder where the claim 
related to the gas supply or central heating system (which would include third party suppliers 
referred to Aviva by the policyholder). In recognition of their partial upholding of the 
complaint, Aviva offered Mr C £100 in compensation.
Mr C then complained to this service. He was unhappy at being left for a week without 
heating and that Aviva wouldnt consider fitting a reconditioned fan hed located. Had he 
been told sooner Aviva wouldnt fit a reconditioned fan, hed have bought the fan and had it 
fitted. He had lost earnings from the incident as well as suffering considerable stress from 
what had happened, and the time taken by Aviva to reach their decision. He wanted 
compensation for his loss of earnings in addition to the £100 Aviva offered.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Aviva acted fairly and 
reasonably. He thought the policy made it clear alternative parts wouldnt be fitted and 
Mr C had been told this by Aviva the day following the visit of their engineers. As Mr C 
was aware of this, our investigator thought he could have gone to work as planned, 
so Aviva didnt need to compensate him for any loss of earnings. In deeming the 
boiler beyond economical repair and offering £500 towards a replacement, Aviva 
acted in line with the policy terms and conditions. The investigator also thought the 
£100 compensation offered by Aviva for delays in reaching their decision was fair. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. He said hed been told by Aviva theyd look to source the part if 
they could, and it wasnt until after the new year break he was told his boiler was 
beyond economical repair. Regarding his loss of earnings, Mr C said the uncertainty 
over whether Aviva might have been able to source a replacement fan, together with 
the circumstances of his property and his work starting in a different location, meant 
he had to remain at his property (so wasnt able to start work as planned).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Aviva has acted fairly towards Mr C.
There are several elements to Mr Cs complaint, but Ive concentrated on what I think are the 
two main elements. First, the time taken by Aviva to confirm they couldnt fit a replacement 
fan and (consequently) they deemed Mr Bs boiler to be beyond economical repair. This left 
him without a working boiler (and without heating) for a week. And Avivas refusal to source 
a replacement fan from the supplier contacted by Mr C. Second, Mr Cs loss of earnings 
from having to delay his taking up work due to having to wait for Avivas decision.
While I dont think it a central issue in the complaint, Ive also considered Aviva offering £500 
towards the cost of a replacement boiler. The policy terms and conditions are clear on this 
point, under the definition of Beyond Economical Repair it states:
On assessment of your main heating system, our engineer may declare it to be 
beyond economical repairWe will also declare the main heating system as 
beyond economical repair if we are unable to obtain the required manufacturers 
spare parts from reputable suppliers to complete the repair, within 28 days.
If we declare your main heating system as beyond economical repair, we will 
contribute £500 towards a replacement.
Given this, Ive concluded Aviva acted in line with the policy terms and conditions in offering 
£500 to Mr C. Ive also noted the reference to being unable to obtain the required 
manufacturers spare parts from reputable suppliers, which Ill come back to in considering 
the first main issue.
On this issue, the time taken to confirm his boiler being beyond economical repair, and not 
sourcing a replacement fan from the supplier contacted by Mr C, Ive considered the timeline 
of events, together with the evidence and information available, both from Mr C and Aviva. 
Having done so, Ive concluded that there was a delay in Aviva reaching their decision to 
deem Mr Cs boiler as beyond economical repair (because they werent able to source a 
replacement fan from their approved suppliers}. Aviva acknowledged this in their final 
response and offered £100 compensation. Ive considered the delay and the impact on Mr C, 
including being without a working boiler and the consequent lack of heating. I think Aviva indicating the part was likely to be obsolete the day after the boiler failed  but 
saying they would try to source a replacement  wasnt unreasonable in the circumstances. 
But the time taken to confirm they couldnt source a replacement (or use a replacement from 
Mr Cs suppler) would have had an impact on Mr C, being without a working boiler and 
heating. In the circumstances, I think £100 compensation is fair and reasonable.
The other aspect of this issue is Aviva declining to source a replacement fan from the 
supplier contacted by Mr C. Aviva said they wouldnt consider this as theyd had issues with 
the supplier in the past (as well as thinking the replacement fan would be a reconditioned 
unit). Having considered this issue, Ive concluded this is an operational decision for Aviva to 
make, whether to source a replacement fan through their network of suppliers  the 
reference to obtaining spare parts from reputable suppliers in the policy terms and 
conditions. So, while I can understand Mr Cs view that a replacement fan could have been 
sourced from the supplier he contacted, it isnt something I can conclude Aviva should have 
done, and therefore have acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Ive also noted the policy terms and conditions include, under a heading of Home 
emergency general exclusions the following statement:
P. Any parts not supplied and chosen by usOur engineer will not fit alternative 
parts supplied by you where the claim relates to the gas supply or the central 
heating system.
I think this makes it clear under the policy that Aviva wouldnt have fitted a replacement fan 
sourced through the supplier contacted by Mr C. So, Ive concluded Aviva didnt act unfairly 
or unreasonably in declining to source (or fit) the replacement fan from the supplier.
The second main issue in Mr Cs complaint is his loss of earnings from not being able to take 
up a work opportunity, to begin at the start of the new year. Mr C says the uncertainty about 
whether Aviva could source a replacement fan, together with the circumstances at his 
property (and the distant location of the work) meant he couldnt take up the opportunity from 
the date he had planned. 
Ive considered what Mr C has said, but having done so, Ive concluded any loss of earnings 
from being unable to begin the work as hed planned cant reasonably be held to be the 
responsibility of Aviva, so I wont be asking them to reimburse Mr C. I know this will be 
disappointing to Mr C, so Ill explain why Ive come to this conclusion.
Looking at the sequence of events, while Mr C was initially told by Aviva the part was 
obsolete, they would seek to check with their suppliers if one could be sourced. So, while 
there was a possibility of the part being sourced, there was no guarantee it could. And Aviva 
subsequently confirmed this (and the boiler being deemed beyond economical repair). While 
Mr C says he wouldnt have been able to take up the work opportunity on the date he was 
offered, because of the uncertainty, as the property had a second occupant, I dont think this 
would have precluded Mr C from taking up his opportunity. And given my conclusion it 
wasnt unreasonable for Aviva to attempt to source a fan from their supplier network (rather 
than from the supplier contacted by Mr C) I cant conclude they should be responsible for Mr 
Cs decision not to take up his work opportunity on the date he was originally offered. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman