DRN-1297961
 
The complaint
Mr E complains that about the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) when 
he closed his account and raised concerns over two disputed transactions.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr E and HSBC, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here in any 
great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. 
On the 11 May 2019 Mr E made 2 purchases for £111.99 and £37.99 on his credit card. On 
the 20 May £111.99 was refunded by the retailer. On the 24 May 2019 Mr E cleared his card 
balance and closed the account. In July Mr E received a statement showing a debit balance 
and that hed been charged late fees and interest. He called HSBC and raised a complaint 
as he was told it appeared the retailer had taken £111.99 payment twice and Mr E was 
concerned about the impact on his credit file.
HSBC responded to the complaint by saying that the late fees and interest would be 
refunded and his credit file corrected. In addition he was offered £100 compensation which 
he rejected.
Mr E was unhappy with HSBCs final response and thought he should receive a much 
greater level of compensation as he had been off work due to the stress caused by this 
matter. He was looking for £2,000 and so brought the complaint to this service and our 
investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt think that the issue which 
had arisen was wholly the fault of HSBC. But he did suggest that HSBC increase the offer of 
compensation by £50.
Mr E didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to mediate individual disputes between consumers and businesses, and to award 
redress where it is appropriate.  
I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether HSBC acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I have to make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. Looking at the statement dated the 10 June I can see what has happened. When Mr E has 
paid off the balance on his account he did so before the debits to his account for the 2 
purchases he made of £111.99 and £37.99 were applied. They didnt appear on Mr Es 
account until the 25 May, the day after he made a payment thinking he was clearing the 
balance. I can also see however that the refund by the merchant had been applied and 
although I dont know why that would occur before the transaction was actually debited, the 
statement shows that it was. 
So, the net effect is that when Mr E thought he had paid off his balance, in fact he hadnt. Mr 
E had clearly not checked his statement of the 10 June because if he had it would have 
shown he still owed £149.98.
Following that, HSBC told Mr E they would refund the late payment fees and interest and 
remove the adverse credit reporting, but they also raised a chargeback claim which they 
oughtnt to. And in so doing they credited Mr Es account with £111.99. Accepting that they 
shouldnt have raised the chargeback claim HSBC confirmed Mr E could keep the £111.99 
as part of their resolution to his complaint, and they also offered him £100 further 
compensation. 
Matters however do not appear to have been fully resolved because in November Mr E 
received another statement showing that he owed £111.99. HSBC have apologised and 
accepted that was their error and have provided feedback to the individual concerned who 
wrongly debited Mr Es account. I have seen their confirmation and so I am satisfied Mr Es 
account is now correct.
So, in summary HSBC has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it 
should compensate Mr E. It has effectively already paid Mr E £111.99 by virtue of leaving 
the credit they gave him on his account, and confirming they will not recover it, and they 
have also offered to pay Mr E another £100.
Ive given further thought to this as I know Mr E feels he should be given considerably more, 
and Ive taken account of his medical condition and the time he has had from work. Ive also 
considered his views on the impact on his credit file. On the last point first, Mr E was asked 
by this service to provide a copy of his credit file but he has refused to do so. In the absence 
of that I cannot be satisfied that there has been any impact on his credit file especially as 
HSBC has said they have removed the adverse entries.
In relation to Mr Es medical condition he has told this service he has high blood pressure 
and that this complaint has caused him stress. I do not doubt him, but there is no evidence 
to support the claim that the subject of this complaint was the sole cause of his stress and 
thus the reason for being absent from work. In fact his sick note records he was being 
signed off for both stress at home and at work. This indicates he was suffering stress from 
two separate causes and in so far as stress at home is concerned it is not specific as to 
whether it was purely this incident or a combination of other factors. All of this leads me to 
the conclusion that I cant be satisfied that Mr E was off work because of this incident, and it 
is more likely than not that the reason he was off work was due to a combination of stressful 
factors.
So, I am left to consider the appropriate level of award for the errors HSBC made, without 
considering Mr Es lost time from work. I understand he will have spent a considerable 
amount of time dealing with this matter as he has described. So Ive considered the level of 
awards this service has made for trouble and upset in similar cases. Ive also taken into 
account, in the light of my findings above, the impact this is likely to have had on Mr E. Any 
award of compensation for trouble and upset caused needs to be balanced and measured against the ups and downs of daily life in dealing with other people, businesses and 
organisations, and recognising that that can be inconvenient at times.
Putting things right
Putting all of this into the balance I think what HSBC paid and offered was fair and 
reasonable, but that was before Mr E received his November statement. In the light of that I 
agree with our investigator that a further £50 is warranted and is enough to put matters right.
My final decision
I direct that HSBC should pay Mr E a total of £269.99 to settle this complaint. HSBC has 
already paid Mr E £111.99, and so I direct that it should pay him a further £150 
So my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr E £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman