DRN-3464060
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service hes received from Tilney Investment Management 
Services Limited. Hes unhappy that theyve blocked his online access and says theyve also 
refused to release documentation and information when requested to do so.
What happened
Mr W has complained to Tilney a number of times over the years. In 2015 he brought a 
complaint to this service which was upheld by one of our adjudicators. He complained again 
to Tilney in 2019 and 2020 regarding missing account information, blocked access to his 
online account, unauthorised transfer of funds to a Tilney umbrella fund and lack of detail 
about fees. He also asked for evidence of his instructions for Tilney to invest in non-
tradeable investments and to end the discretionary management agreement. 
Tilney looked into the concerns hed raised but didnt uphold the complaint. They said that 
they wouldnt revisit any of the issues which were previously considered by this service - 
issues around missing account information, non-tradeable assets and the ending of the 
discretionary agreement. 
However, they explained that: 
There were no contract notes outstanding as there hadnt been any trading on his 
account. And they couldnt provide him with any bank statements as there was no 
bank account held in his name - his money was held across several client money 
accounts.
They hadnt charged him any fees since 2012 and confirmed they werent providing 
him with any service other than holding his assets in a custody account. And he 
couldnt access their online system due to his account being set up on a no fee basis.
The Tilney Umbrella fund was effectively the same fund hed been invested in since 
2006 - it had just changed names a few times over the years. 
Mr W didnt accept their findings and brought the complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He noted that the issues of missing contract notes, non-tradeable assets and the 
termination of the discretionary agreement had already been considered by this service so 
he wouldnt look into them again. 
He thought the evidence didnt show that Tilney had taken any fees and he couldnt say 
theyd done anything wrong. And he also thought the overall strategy of the Tilney Umbrella 
Fund was in line with same fund Mr W had been in since 2006 so again, he didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators findings and said, in summary:
Tilney were in breach of some of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) rules 
including Client Asset Sourcebook (CASS) 9 - Information for Clients and CASS 9.5 - 
reporting to clients on request. 
The outcome of his 2015 complaint wasnt a final decision so it had no bearing on his 
current complaint. 
Tilney were refusing to provide him with contract notes, bank and account statements 
and refusing to restore his online access. He hadnt made any agreement with them 
to allow a stop to his online accounts and assets.
Tilney had said that there were no contract notes as no trading has taken place - yet 
there were transaction fees and costs.
Tilney had to provide him with the details and particulars of all agreements and 
changes to his accounts that theyd made and full details and particulars of any 
consent that they alleged that hed made to enable them to do so.
His understanding was that the Tilney Umbrella fund was an unsuitable investment. 
Theyd never provided him with any suitability report for that fund or any other 
investment that theyd made on his behalf. They also hadnt provided him with any 
details of what assets and investments theyd sold in order to purchase the fund. The 
fund wasnt be in line with his discretionary agreement and he required a full and 
complete copy of the discretionary agreement that had been referred to.
Contrary to the FCA Handbook and rules - Tilney were refusing to provide details and 
particulars of charges, commissions, expenses and fees. Tilney had said that theyd 
already been provided but they hadnt. The 2019 costs and charges statement 
confirmed that hed incurred charges and fees.
Also contrary to the FCA Handbook and rules - Tilney were refusing to provide any 
details and particulars of any instructions or agreements which enabled them to 
invest in non-tradeable investments. They knew which investments were unsuitable, 
non-tradeable, become illiquid, etc. They needed to provide him with this information 
so he could move on.
They also needed to provide him with a copy of his signed instruction to end the 
discretionary agreement that they claimed to have. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think there are some elements of Mr Ws complaint that we can look at, 
but others that we cant. I will now explain further. 
Complaint points weve previously considered
Mr W previously brought a complaint to us and received an opinion from an adjudicator in 
2015. The complaint covered a number of points but specifically addressed some of the 
concerns Mr W has now raised - missing contract notes and bank statements, non-tradeable 
assets (which was upheld and redress paid to Mr W) and the termination of the discretionary agreement. 
Mr W accepted the adjudicators opinion, and the complaint was subsequently closed. The 
rules set by the regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) say that our service may 
dismiss a complaint referred to us without considering its merits if the subject matter of the 
complaint has previously been considered or excluded by our service. 
Mr W has said, in brief, that the outcome of his 2015 wasnt a final decision so we should be 
able to revisit it. Mr W was given the opportunity in 2015 to refer his complaint to an 
ombudsman for a final decision if he disagreed with the outcome. He didnt ask for one and 
the complaint was closed. I appreciate that Mr W feels very strongly about his complaint but 
given that weve already given him an answer of some of the points hes complained about, I 
dont think it would be appropriate for this service to consider those points again.
Complaint points we can consider
Ive thought about the new issues Mr W has raised - fees taken by Tilney, the move to the 
Tilney Umbrella fund and the blocking of his online access. Having done so, I dont these 
points should be upheld, and I will now explain why. 
I cant see that Tilney have charged Mr W any fees. This is evidenced in the 2019 costs and 
charges document which shows that while Mr W has incurred fees, these are ongoing fees 
and transaction fees associated with the funds he holds. The ongoing fees are to do with the 
costs of running and managing the fund - such as operating costs and the annual 
management charge. The transaction fees are charges incurred as a result of acquisitions 
and disposals of assets within the fund. As Tilney havent charged Mr W any fees and 
already provide him with a yearly summary of the costs and charges hes incurred, I dont 
think they need to provide him with any more information about fees.  
Mr W has raised concerns about the suitability of the Tilney Umbrella Fund. From what Ive 
seen Mr Ws discretionary arrangement with Tilney ended in 2013. Since that time, they 
havent given him any investment advice and have only held his assets in a custody account. 
Mr W initially invested in the Tilney Collective Management Limited Growth Portfolio Fund. 
This became the DB PWM Collective Management Limited Maximum Growth Portfolio Fund, 
then the IFSL Tilney Bestinvest Maximum Growth Fund and then the Tilney Umbrella ICAV 
Maximum Growth Portfolio Fund. 
The decision to discontinue a particular fund or amalgamate it into an existing fund wasnt 
made by Tilney, and as they werent providing Mr W with an advisory or discretionary service 
then I dont think they needed to assess his suitability. It therefore follows that I dont think 
they need to do anything further in respect of this point.
Mr W has said that Tilney have blocked his online access. Tilney have explained that Mr W 
previously had access to a legacy system which is no longer available. And the only service 
they currently offer Mr W is a custody service which doesnt have online access. 
I appreciate that Mr W was sent a letter recently when Tilney merged with another business 
which said he had online access, but theyve since clarified that this was sent in error. As I 
cant see that Tilney have blocked Mr Ws access and the lack of access to an online system 
is because of the nature of his relationship with them, I dont think I can fairly say that theyve 
done anything wrong. It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman