DRN-2854750
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Calpe Insurance Company. He wasnt happy about the way it 
dealt with a claim under his car insurance policy. 
  
What happened
Mr As car was used by a friend of his son who insured the car under their own insurance 
policy, not Mr As. When they didnt return his car as agreed he reported the car stolen to the 
police who later informed him that the car had been involved in an accident. It turned out that 
the driver of the car wasnt insured in their own right, and so Calpe looked to recover all 
costs from Mr A. So Mr A complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. He thought that Calpe 
hadnt made sufficient effort to recover the third party costs it incurred from the actual driver 
of the car. So he thought they should look to do that, as opposed to pursue Mr A. And that it 
should pay him £200 for the stress and inconvenience all this has caused him.
As Calpe didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont propose to go over the finer detail of this complaint. I say this as it is 
accepted by both sides that Mr A has been the victim here. But I agree with our investigator 
that Calpe shouldve pursued the driver of the car and not Mr A in the first instance. And that 
they should pay Mr A £200 compensation. Ill explain why.
Mr A was deceived by a friend of his sons. The friend said that they had insured Mr As car 
separately when they borrowed the car. Unfortunately, the supporting insurance 
documentation that the driver provided was fraudulent although there was no way that Mr A 
couldve known this. And when his car wasnt returned as planned, he reported the matter to 
the police who went on to tell him that his car had been involved in an accident.
When the matter was reported to Calpe it explained that it was unable to indemnify the 
damage sustained to Mr As car under his insurance policy. And that it would be dealing with 
the third party drivers claim and seeking the full costs from Mr A. Even at this stage there 
wasnt any suggestion from Calpe that it would try and recover costs from the actual driver of 
the car as opposed to Mr A.
But as our investigator outlined I dont think that this produces a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the particular circumstances of this case. Ill explain why.
It is clear that Mr A was satisfied that his car was insured by the other driver given the 
documentation that was provided. Indeed, it took Calpe a while to check that the paperwork 
the driver provided wasnt in order when it checked directly with the insurer identified on the 
documentation. But that doesnt mean that Calpe should cover the damage caused to Mr As 
car as it wasnt insured by Calpe at that time. 
However, Calpe has had to cover the third party costs as it was obliged to under the Road 
Traffic Act. And it is entitled to recover these costs but it should have looked to do this, in the 
first instance, from the driver of the vehicle as opposed to Mr A. I say this as the driver is 
known and has been clearly identified and yet Calpe hasnt tried to recover its costs from 
him when it should have. Calpe says that its claims handler tried to contact the driver and 
says that if Mr A wants to make contact with the driver it can try and recover from them. 
But Calpe shouldve taken action itself to recover the money as it has tried to do against 
Mr A. And I would still expect it to do so now given the driver is clearly identifiable and it has 
the relevant contact details for him. As it didnt take this action against the driver of the 
vehicle at the time this may prove more difficult now given the passage of time so I dont 
think it would be fair to pursue Mr A now if this fails either. 
Finally, I agree that Calpes sole pursuit of Mr A as opposed to the identified driver of the 
vehicle has caused Mr A a fair degree of stress and worry. He has had a large debt hanging 
over him unnecessarily when Calpe shouldve been pursuing the driver of the vehicle at the 
time of the accident and so I agree that it should also pay him £200 in compensation. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance 
Company to pursue the driver of the car at the time of the accident for its costs and to pay 
Mr A £200 compensation. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman