DRN-2075217
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Haven Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under his taxi insurance policy. 
What happened
I looked at Mr Hs complaint and the finer detail of the case previously and set out the 
background as follows;
Mr H was involved in an accident and made a claim under his commercial insurance policy. 
His car was deemed an economic write off and he was held at fault for the accident. Mr H 
didnt think he was at fault and thought that the valuation of his car was low. So he repaired 
the car privately and asked Haven to pay him direct. It agreed to pay a cash-in-lieu (CIL) 
payment subject to evidence. As CIL couldnt be agreed and Mr H didnt agree with the way 
liability was settled he complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H and partly upheld his complaint. Although he 
thought Haven had acted reasonably in settling liability he thought that Haven should pay Mr 
H the market value of his car, less his excess and the salvage value of the car.
As Haven didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Although Mr H seems to have now accepted the liability decision made by Haven. I will still 
consider this issue as part of my final decision alongside the financial settlement of his claim, 
which is the main thing Mr H remains unhappy about.
In relation to liability, and as the investigator explained, its not the role of this service to 
decide which party in this case was at fault for causing the accident, only a court of law can 
do that. The insurance companies representing the parties can also agree between 
themselves which party is more likely to be deemed at fault for causing the accident. Its only 
when the insurers disagree on this  the matter goes to court. Its fairly rare insurers dont 
agree, since they deal with such issues regularly as part of their daily business and are fully 
aware of what a court is likely to decide in most circumstances.
In almost all motor and taxi insurance policies, theres a term, which allows the insurer to 
take over, defend or settle any claim against its policyholder as it thinks fit. And Havens 
policy is no different. Further, when anyone buys a policy, they are agreeing to this term. My 
role and that of this service is merely to see if Haven applied this term to the claim 
circumstances fairly and reasonably. And I think it did. 
This is because it listened to Mr Hs account, considered this alongside the wider evidence 
from the other two drivers involved in this accident (who both held Mr H responsible) and 
took all this on board in making its decision. It is a pity that Mr Hs dashcam wasnt working 
as this may have helped. But given the circumstances, Haven decided that it wouldnt be 
able to prove at court that the accident wasnt Mr Hs fault and I dont think that position was 
unreasonable or that it did anything wrong.
In relation to the damage caused to Mr Hs car. Haven looked at the car and decided that it 
was an economic write off because of the level of damage sustained. And from what Ive 
seen from its engineer that position seems reasonable. Mr H disputed the valuation of his 
car by Haven. But our investigator looked into this for him and thought that Havens offer 
was fair. 
Again, he explained to Mr H how this service generally looks at valuations. We dont value 
cars (which is far from an exact science), but we look to see that the insurer has acted 
reasonably and offered a fair market value. Our investigator used a number of trade guides 
used for valuing cars and thought that the value offered by Haven was in line with these. Ive 
also looked at the guides and I cant say that Haven has acted unreasonably here.
But Mr H chose to get the car repaired himself in any event. It looks like he wanted to keep 
his car and obviously thought it was worth more than Haven offered. I know our investigator 
has suggested that Haven still pays Mr H the original market value it offered, less the cost of 
the salvage, but that doesnt seem fair to Haven. I say this as Mr H chose against this when 
it offered him the market value originally. And it is possible that Mr H got the car repaired for 
a lot less than this, which would amount to betterment.
Haven has said that it is more than happy to consider Mr Hs costs and pay a CIL payment. 
But it needs some evidence of repair and payment, such as invoices, photographs of the car 
(before and after repair) and some evidence of payment by Mr H. I can see that Mr H has 
been able to provide some, but not all of this. He has had difficulty getting invoices from his 
repairing garage but Im sure that he can get his own evidence of payment from his own 
bank transactions. And I would expect Haven to show a little flexibility here in considering 
what Mr H paid to have his car repaired. But I accept it needs some supporting evidence 
from Mr H to be able to make a CIL payment.
I know Mr H feels that Haven are being difficult by asking for this evidence, but this kind of 
verification process is normal when finalising claims in circumstances like these.
Replies
Mr H responded to my provisional decision and said again that he had provided all he could. 
And as his cousin had paid in cash for the repairs in person he couldnt provide any bank or 
credit card statement to show the payment. So all he had was the documentation he had 
already provided to the business and he wasnt able to get anything further from the 
repairing garage. And he said again that he didnt agree with the liability decision.
While Haven wasnt sure if the complaint was being upheld or not. And said it would need 
invoices from Mr H for VAT purposes in order to pay the claim and didnt feel it would be 
able to pay the claim on bank statement proof alone. Finally, it highlighted that as it hadnt 
done anything wrong it didnt think it should have to pay any interest on the costs Mr H 
incurred in repairing his vehicle.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not proposing to alter my provisional decision which, for clarity, was that I wasnt minded 
to uphold this complaint. 
I dont propose to go over the main points again as they have already been addressed. But I 
will consider Mr H and Havens further representations. Although I agree Haven hasnt done 
anything wrong I can understand why the investigator was suggesting that it paid Mr H the 
market value of his car. This was because he was trying to put him back into the position he 
should have been, but I think that was going too far and would lead to betterment. 
But Mr H has said he has repaired his car and it is only fair that he should be paid the costs 
he incurred. Unfortunately, he has had difficulty getting invoices from the repairing garage, 
so I think it is only fair that Haven is flexible about this. But I would still expect Mr H to 
evidence his position and I leave it to him to advance this with Haven if he wishes. 
I know Haven doesnt feel that it should have to pay any interest on this. But Mr H has been 
without the money since he paid for his repairs and I feel it would only be fair for him to be 
paid interest for this period as long as he can evidence his position. This isnt because 
Haven has done anything wrong, it is just because Mr H has been out of pocket, but Ill leave 
both sides to advance this when Mr H provides the necessary evidence in order that Haven 
can make a CIL payment.
Turning to Mr Hs further representations I understand that he is finding it difficult to provide 
the necessary evidence as the repairs were paid for in cash. But any reputable garage 
should be able to revisit this for him and provide an invoice or letter outlining the work 
undertaken and the costs incurred for him now so Im surprised he cant evidence his 
position in some form. Indeed, I recently asked Mr H to provide some photographic evidence 
in support of his position (perhaps photos showing the damage before and after repair) but 
he says he has sold the car so he cant provide this. But without any evidence, such as 
photos showing the car in its repaired state or an invoice from the repairing garage, I cant 
tell Haven to pay anything towards the repair. 
As such, Im not upholding this complaint and simply leave it to Mr H to provide sufficient 
evidence to Haven that he had his car repaired and some evidence that he paid for the 
repairs. I say this as I agree that the information he has provided to date isnt sufficient to 
show what repairs, if any, were undertaken or the costs incurred. And Im satisfied for the 
reasons outlined above that Haven settled liability in a fair and reasonable way.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021. 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman