DRN-3687772
The complaint
This complaints about an interest-only mortgage that Mr N and Mrs N held jointly with TSB 
Bank plc; they repaid it in November 2021 by taking out an equity release mortgage. The 
essence of the complaint is that TSB refused to accept the home as the repayment vehicle 
for a term extension. This in turn meant that for the final year of the mortgage, they were 
charged interest at TSBs standard variable rate, as no one-year fixed rate deals were 
available.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr N and Mrs N and TSB. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr N and Mrs N being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, 
rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr N and Mrs N have a mortgage which was due for repayment in November 2021. In 
October 2020, the mortgage came off a fixed rate deal and reverted the TSBs standard 
variable rate (SVR). The following month, Mr N and Mrs N enquired about extending the 
mortgage term by five years; they said switching to a capital repayment mortgage wouldnt 
be affordable and asked to stay on interest-only. Their proposed strategy for repaying the 
capital was that they would sell their home and downsize in five years time. 
After assessing their circumstances, TSB refused a term extension, saying that the sale of 
the mortgaged property wasnt part of its lending policy. Mr N and Mrs N eventually 
re-mortgaged to another lender, but say theyll be substantially out of pocket over the next 
five years, compared with how they would have fared if TSB had extended the term and 
offered them a new five-year fixed rate.
Mr N and Mrs N own other properties, either personally or through a limited company; they 
also part-own other parties in the UK jointly with third parties, along with properties and land 
overseas. Our investigator thought that TSB had made a fair decision within the parameters 
of its lending policy, given that Mr N and Mrs N had other assets they could have sold in 
order to repay the mortgage on time. 
Mr N and Mrs N have asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is that Mr N and Mrs N borrowed money from TSB, and under the 
term of their agreement with TSB, were due to pay it back in November 2021. In one of his 
letters, Mr N said: It should be my own decision to sell which ever property I chose to pay 
off my mortgage at the appropriate time.
What Mr N may have overlooked when making that observation is that in his and Mrs Ns 
case, the appropriate time was November 2021. If he and Mrs N had been talking about 
repaying the mortgage in November 2021 when they were meant to, it would have been of 
no consequence to TSB which of their various properties they sold to do so. However, once 
they asked for the term to be extended, by what means they might then repay the mortgage 
became very much TSBs business.
No one is entitled to borrow money; and even when theyve borrowed before, theyre not 
automatically entitled to more time to repay the debt after it has fallen due. But a lender must 
treat customers fairly. In the context of an application for a term extension, that means 
assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria and being mindful of what 
mortgage regulation requires of it. Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not 
generally made public.
TSB didnt agree a term extension because none of the properties in which Mr N and Mrs N 
have an interest met its lending criteria. There were various reasons for this; either because 
they were partly-owned by third parties, were the subject of mortgages of their own or 
because they were company-owned. At one stage, I note Mr N was contemplating 
transferring the company-owned properties to his personal ownership, but changed his mind 
du to the potential liability for Capital Gains Tax. 
In the case of the mortgaged property itself, TSBs current lending policy is not to accept a 
persons home as the repayment vehicle for an interest-only mortgage. Mr N and Mrs N 
clearly disagree with the reasoning behind that, and theyre entitled to. But every lender has 
its own appetite for risk, each lender shapes its policy to reflect that. Its not open to me to 
say if TSBs lending criteria are fair (thats a matter for the regulator) only if they have been 
applied fairly, and here Im satisfied they were. TSB wasnt required to amend or disregard 
its lending policy just because adhering to it produced an outcome that was unwelcome to 
Mr N and Mrs N. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think TSBs decision not to grant the term extension 
was either unreasonable or unfairly reached. It was Mr N and Mrs N who owed TSB a debt 
that was coming up for repayment, thus it was for them to come up with a proposal that was 
acceptable to TSB, not the other way around. Lastly, its worth pointing out that they have 
had thirteen years to come up with a plan for repaying the mortgage before it was actually 
due.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman