DRN-3168351
The complaint
Mr A complains that UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd failed to set up a direct debit to make 
payments to his mortgage account. It took payments from his overpayment reserve without 
his knowledge or consent, something he says its not entitled to do. Hed like this refunded.
What happened
Mr A has an interest only mortgage with UCB. He changed his current account and gave the 
new account details to UCB in April 2020. Mr A says he didnt realise UCB hadnt set up the 
direct debit from the new account until February 2021. In the meantime, it took monthly 
payments from his overpayment reserve.
The overall balance of Mr As mortgage increased as interest was applied and monthly 
payments werent made. The higher balance resulted in more interest being applied and 
higher contractual monthly payments.
Mr A says UCB admitted it made an error and said it would refund the payments. He says it 
went back on this.
UCB accepts it made an error with the direct debit. UCB says its policy when payments are 
missed is to use the overpayment reserve as this avoids the customers account falling into 
arrears and adverse data on their credit files. It offered to put Mr As account into the position 
it ought to have been in if he made an additional payment to cover the missed payments. It 
offered £100 compensation for the error with the direct debit.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties explaining why I intended to uphold this complaint, 
and what I thought UCB should do to put matters right. My provisional findings and outcome 
were substantially as set out below.
Mr A accepted my provisional decision and both parties confirmed they had no further 
comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A changed current account and UCB didnt update his direct debit properly. UCB accepts 
it made an error and offered £100 compensation.
Because there was no direct debit in place monthly interest payments werent made into 
Mr As mortgage account. Usually, this would result in missed payments and arrears. If this 
had happened UCB would have written to Mr A and hed have been aware of the error. Here 
though Mr A had previously made overpayments. UCB took his monthly payments from the 
overpayment reserve. Mr A says it has no right to do this. UCB says it does this as a matter 
of policy as it avoids a customers account going into arrears and adverse data on their 
credit file.
Mr A says he first became aware of the problem when he received a mortgage statement in 
February 2021 and saw his balance had increased. He contacted UCB and set up the direct 
debit. Mr A says UCB agreed to refund the payments, which would put his overpayment 
reserve back into the position it was in before it made the error with the direct debit. In its 
final response letter, UCB offered to do this but only if Mr A makes up the missed payments.
Ive listened to the call where Mr A says UCB agreed to refund these payments. This is a 
long call, but at the end the call handler said hed checked with a colleague and had an 
answer to Mr As complaint. He said UCB had made an error with the direct debit and the 
complaints team would refund that money back as compensation if that was what Mr A 
wanted. But the call handler went on to say the matter would be dealt with by the complaints 
team and there was no need for Mr A to do anything or log the complaint again. He said the 
complaints team would contact Mr A to discuss how he wanted to resolve the complaint.
While Mr A says UCB agreed to refund payments, its not clear that this was all of the nine 
missed monthly payments, or perhaps the additional interest applied as a result of the higher 
balance. I can see why this conversation caused confusion. It didnt help matters that the 
complaints team was unaware of this conversation when they spoke to Mr A and gave what 
he says is a different answer to his complaint. I now need to decide what UCB should do to 
put matters right.
I could require UCB to reverse the payments (move them back from Mr As mortgage 
account to the overpayment reserve). This would put his overpayment reserve back to the 
position it was in before the error with the direct debit. However, it would put his mortgage 
account into arrears. This is likely to have adverse consequences for his credit file and the 
overall cost and conduct of his mortgage.
I think Mr A thought UCB would put the overpayment reserve into the position it was in 
before the error with the direct debit but without taking any payments back from the 
mortgage account, or Mr A making up the missed payments. Essentially, Mr A is asking that 
UCB funds nine months of his mortgage payments.
When considering if this is fair and reasonable, Ive taken the following into account.
UCB accepts it made an error when it didnt update the direct debit. This was the reason 
payments werent made to Mr As mortgage account for nine months.
I think its reasonable to expect Mr A to check his current account. If he had, hed have 
seen sooner that mortgage payments were not being made.
When Mr A didnt make payments for nine months he didnt lose this money. It remained 
in his current account, or he perhaps used it for other purposes.
The overall balance of Mr As mortgage account increased because payments werent 
made for nine months. This increased the amount of interest being applied and the 
monthly interest payments. However, UCB offered to put the account into the right 
position if Mr A made up the nine missed payments.
UCB caused confusion when it said it had an answer to Mr As complaint and it would 
refund that money without being clear about what that mean. Mr A wasnt confident that 
UCBs complaints team had listened to this call. This delayed the matter being resolved.While UCB made errors, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require it to bear the cost of 
nine monthly interest payments. When Mr A took out the mortgage he agreed to make 
monthly interest payments, and he does owe this money. I think it was reasonable for UCB 
to say it would backdate the missed payments if Mr A makes an additional payment to cover 
them.
But I do think UCBs errors caused Mr A inconvenience and upset. Mr A says he makes 
overpayments to help him repay his interest only mortgage when the term expires. Hes 
upset that the overpayment reserve has reduced due to the error with the direct debit. UCBs 
unclear information about the refund on offer meant the matter wasnt resolved as soon as it 
could have been. And this has led to Mr A having to continue to contact UCB, and then us, 
about this matter. I think UCB should take the following steps to put matters right.
1. UCB should write to Mr A setting out how much hed need to pay to cover the nine 
payments missed in 2020 and 2021. If Mr A makes this payment within 60 days of the 
date of that letter, UCB should apply the payments to his account as if theyd been made 
on time and adjust the mortgage account and overpayment reserve accordingly.
2.  Step 1 will reduce the balance of Mr As mortgage account. Its likely that hes paid too 
much interest as a result of the missed payments increasing his balance. Mr A should let 
UCB know whether hed like this additional interest repaid to him or moved to the 
overpayment reserve.
3. UCB should pay compensation of £300 for the inconvenience and upset caused by its 
errors.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd to take 
the steps and pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman