DRN-4092526
The complaint
Mr M complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) declined to replace
pipework connected to his heating system following a claim under his home emergency
policy.
What happened
Mr M says that in April 2022 he advised British Gas that three radiators werent working in
his house. He says the engineer who attended told him the system should be flushed as
there was likely to be a blockage in the pipes. Towards the end of June, he says he
arranged for a third-party to flush the radiators. This didnt resolve the problem. Mr M says
his engineer thought the pipes would need to be replaced. Alternatively, a different flushing
process could be attempted, but he says this wasnt advised.
Mr M contacted British Gas again and its engineer agreed the pipes would need replacing.
He was told this wasnt something that was covered by his policy and would be a 
chargeable upgrade. He says he was called the next day and told British Gas couldnt do 
the upgrade because the pipes were microbore. Mr M says the policy terms dont mention 
different types of pipework.
Mr M says damage caused by sludge/scale isnt covered if hes been told to carry out a
power flush. He says he did this, so this clause is no longer valid. He points to the policy
terms that say repairs are covered to, the pipes that connect the central heating system. Mr
M didnt think British Gas had treated him fairly and referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She thought British Gas acted fairly when
declining to replace the pipework. This work was necessary due to damage caused by
limescale, sludge or other debris. She highlighted the policy term that excludes cover for
damage caused in this way.
Mr M didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Ms complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Let me explain.
Ive read the system records provided by British Gas. These show that several engineers
visited him in 2022. The records refer to attempts to remove a blockage, affecting three
radiators. The notes show that new pipework was thought necessary, and Mr M was
advised of this.
Ive also read the invoice Mr M received from his engineer in June 2022. This describes the
work completed, which involved draining and flushing radiators, and removing/checking
valves. The engineer suggested trying to back-pressure the pipes to push the blockage
backwards. The engineer states there is no guarantee that this will work but possibly worth a
try. I note Mr M didnt agree to this. He comments that this wasnt something that was
advised.
Mr M also supplied the invoice he received from the engineer that eventually replaced the
pipework, alongside some other work. This came to £1,700.
In its complaint response British Gas refers to replacing pipes as upgrade work. And that the
blockage was caused by sludge and scale, which is excluded under its policy terms. Ive
read the policy terms to understand what cover is provided. The terms say:
Whats covered: All repairs to the heat and hot water system on your property, for example:
 the pipes that connect the central heating system.
 a replacement of parts of your central heating if we cant repair them
And:
Whats not covered
Damage caused by limescale, sludge or other debris  if weve told you before that you need
to carry out repairs, improvements or a British Gas Powerflush, or a similar process but you
havent done so.
Under the General Exclusions section the policy terms say:
Making any improvements
Your product only includes repairing or replacing your boiler, appliance or system when it
stops working properly  it doesnt include any improvements or upgrades for example:
replacing smoke alarms that are past their recommended replacement date or expiry date,
replacing working radiators, swapping standard radiator valves for thermostatic ones or
replacing electrical cables and fuseboards that still work.
The terms say damage caused by limescale and sludge isnt covered. But this only applies
where British Gas has told Mr M a power flush is needed - and where he hasnt acted on
this. Mr M paid for a power flush to be completed as advised. The same issue with a likely
blockage was found after this was done. So, I dont think this exclusion can apply here.
Ive thought about British Gass reference to replacement pipework representing an
upgrade. The terms exclude upgrades and give several examples of what this is
considered to include. I note replacement pipework isnt stated as one of the examples. The
examples of upgrades listed refer to replacing items that are still working. In these
circumstances I dont think replacement pipework falls into this category.
British Gas diagnosed a blockage, which is causing the issue with some radiators not
heating up. The solution it proposed is to replace some pipework. I note its reference to
micobore pipework in place at Mr Ms property that it isnt able to fix. But theres no
reference in the policy terms to microbore pipework or that this is excluded from repairs.
Based on this evidence I dont think British Gas has shown its policy terms allow it to decline
the repairs Mr M claimed for.British Gass policy doesnt cover the cost of a power flush, so I dont think it should have to
pay for this. Similarly, the installation of a new filter by Mr Ms engineer in September 2022 is
an upgrade to the system. So, again this isnt covered by Mr Ms policy. But I think its fair
that British Gas pays Mr M for the remaining repair costs he incurred to repair his heating
system.
Ive thought about the impact British Gass decision to decline Mr Ms claim had on him. Im
glad he was able to pay for the repairs to be carried out independently. However, it was
clearly a frustration that he had to arrange this himself when his policy shouldve covered the
repair work. To acknowledge this, I think British Gas should pay Mr M £100 compensation.
I said I intended upholding Mr Ms complaint and British Gas should:
pay the cost of the pipework repairs shown on the invoice Mr M received minus the
charges for the power plush and the addition of a filter; and
pay Mr M £100 compensation for the frustration it caused him.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr M provided a more detailed invoice that showed the cost of the pipework repairs came to 
£1,000. He asked that this be considered in my final decision. 
British Gas responded to say it was disappointed with my provisional decision. It says the 
work detailed in Mr Ms invoice isnt covered by his policy. It says the pipework is not faulty it 
has sludge in the system which is causing blockages. It says this is a common characteristic 
of microbore pipework due to its small diameter, which means its prone to blockages. British 
Gas says the reason for the blockage is a design fault which is not covered and would be 
considered upgrade work. 
British Gas refers to the following terms and conditions from Mr Ms policy in support of its 
comments:
Pre-existing faults
Your products dont include cover for any faults or design faults that:
 were already there when your boiler, appliance or system was installed;
 existed when you first took out the product;
 weve told you about before and you havent fixed, or, if the work has been completed by a
third party, where work, in our opinion, has not been completed to a satisfactory standard
British Gas says it chose not to flush this type of pipework. It says it has every right not to do 
chargeable work it isnt comfortable with. It says its engineers followed the correct protocol 
by recommending a chargeable power flush as the first point of call to rectify the issue. 
British Gas says the power flush was carried out by a third party. It says it is this companys 
responsibility to either re-flush the system or the next option would be to re-pipe the system. 
It says both of these options are considered upgrades, both of which it recommended and 
are not covered by Mr Ms policy. 
British Gas says that chargeable upgrade work was required to resolve Mr Ms issue, and 
this was upgrading his heating system. It doesnt think it should have to pay for the cost of 
this work. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note British Gass comments to the pipework being of a microbore design, and that the 
issue is due to sludge. However, its policy terms say it will cover repairs to pipes that 
connect the central heating system. There is no reference to microbore pipework  or 
mention that this is excluded from the policy cover. 
The policy terms say cover isnt provided where a power flush or similar process has been 
advised and hasnt been carried out. But in this case Mr M had carried out a power flush 
following the advice given to him by British Gas. 
In its comments British Gas refers to a design fault with Mr Ms heating system. This is with 
respect to the microbore pipework thats in place in his home. It refers to the section of its 
policy terms relating to pre-existing faults and design faults. I cant see that microbore 
pipework is mentioned anywhere in the policy terms. I also havent seen evidence that the 
use of microbore pipework can reasonably be considered a design fault. I understand British 
Gass comments that this type of pipework can be prone to blockages, due to its small 
diameter. But this doesnt demonstrate it cant be used or that it should be considered a 
design fault if it is, as British Gas suggests here.    
I do agree with British Gas that its policy doesnt cover the cost of a power flush, which is 
why I dont think it should pay Mr M for this work as I set out in my provisional decision.  
But British Gas is relying on its policy terms that say upgrade work isnt covered, in order to 
decline to pay for replacement pipework. As highlighted in my provisional decision the terms 
say a repair or replacement will be undertaken where the system stops working properly. 
This is what happened in Mr Ms case. What constitutes an upgrade in the policy terms is the 
act of replacing a working, but older, component or item, with a new one. Such as working 
radiators, valves, or smoke detectors. I dont think the pipework, which is described as the 
problem here, reasonably falls under this definition. 
I acknowledge British Gass view that the repairs to Mr Ms heating system, by replacing 
sections of pipework, constitutes upgrade work. But I dont think it can reasonably rely on the 
policy terms it has, to decline cover for the cost of this work. Because of this Im not 
persuaded that I need to change my decision.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited should:
pay the cost of the pipework repairs shown on the invoice Mr M received minus the
charges for the power plush and the addition of a filter (Mr M has shown this cost 
£1,000); and
pay Mr M £100 compensation for the frustration it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman