DRN-2931537
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Capquest Debt Recovery Limited continued chasing him for a debt after he
had paid the settlement figure offered in their letter dated 24 October 2020.
What happened
Capquest is collecting the debt on behalf of Company A, who were assigned the debt from
the original creditor in October 2006.
Capquest made an early settlement offer to Mr M in their letter of 24 October 2020. The offer
explained that a one-off payment for 50% of the debt should be made by 20 November
2020, after which the account would be closed and Mr Ms credit file adjusted accordingly to
reflect the status of the account. The letter said, To discuss this offer in more detail please
contact our UK based customer support team before 20 Nov 2020 An information sheet
was included with the letter setting out different payment methods which included by phone;
using PayPoint; online using Capquests customer portal, and by post.
Mr M made two payments to settle the account. The first payment was made on 3 November 
2020 and the second on 4 November 2020. Mr M therefore considered the account closed.
On 17 December 2020 Company A wrote to Mr M with a statement of Mr Ms account for the
period between 1 July 2020 and 30 November 2020. This showed the payments Mr M had
made in November 2020 but also confirmed the account was still open.
On 20 December 2020 Capquest wrote to Mr A to say theyd not received his payment for
December 2020.
After receiving these letters Mr M raised a complaint as he believed he had settled the
account. On 7 January 2021 Capquest acknowledged Mr Ms complaint and on 29 January
2021 they wrote to Mr M with their findings. Capquest did not uphold Mr Ms complaint as he
had not told them he intended to settle his account before making the payments on 3 and 4
November 2020. But they did update Mr Ms account as partially settled and closed the
account.
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. He said Capquests letter
had not been clear about contacting them before making his payments. Mr M said he had
been happy with the settlement figure offered, so there was nothing to discuss and he made
the payment considering the matter closed.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint as they thought Capquest had not been clear
enough in their correspondence with Mr M. The investigator said there was no requirement
that Mr M should contact Capquest to accept the offer and said Capquest should pay Mr M
£50 to recognise the upset caused to Mr M after learning the account had not been settled.
Capquest disagreed. Capquest did appreciate that the letter did not require a call was
necessary to accept the settlement, but felt the terms to make one payment were clear. They
said Mr M had not adhered to the terms of the settlement because he had made two
separate payments which their system had not recognised as settlement payments.
Capquest didnt think it was unreasonable for Mr M to have called them to discuss the
settlement as the letter asked this and because he was changing how he intended to pay the
settlement sum. Capquest said if they had been informed, they could have accommodated
Mr Ms wish to make two payments by making a manual note on their systems.
As our investigator was unable to reach an agreement between the parties, the complaint
was passed to me to decide.
On receipt of the case I asked the investigator to seek further comments from Capquest. A
suggestion was made to Capquest that as Mr Ms two separate payments were updated
automatically to the account, the same would have happened if Mr M had made a one-off
payment. And Capquest were therefore asked how someone could make a one-off payment
to settle their account without having to contact Capquest.
Capquest referred to the 24 October 2020 letter saying this set out the terms of the
settlement and confirmed the methods of acceptable payment. Capquest said that Mr M did
not choose any of these payment methods or adhere to the settlement terms, therefore
Capquest shouldnt be held responsible for this matter. They said Mr M would have been
aware he was not adhering to the payment methods or the settlement terms and the correct
action would have been for Mr M to contact Capquest to discuss the settlement as the letter
advised him to do.
As a resolution couldnt be reached, I issued my provisional findings to both parties which 
Ive copied below.
 
Provisional findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After being told that Mr Ms payments were intended to take up the offer of early settlement,
Im pleased to learn Capquest closed Mr Ms account and recorded it as partially settled  I
consider this was a fair thing for them to do. So what remains for me to decide is whether
Capquest are responsible for the upset Mr M says was caused to him by the account not
being closed sooner and being chased for further payment.
I appreciate Capquest recognises there is no requirement in the letter sent to Mr M that he
should contact Capquest in order to accept the offer. So I think there is some ambiguity in Mr
Ms letter about the next steps. Mr M has said he didnt need to discuss the offer as it was
acceptable to him. And like the investigator, I see no reason why Mr M would not have
contacted Capquest to accept and settle the account if it was made clear to him that this was
something he was required to do.
However, its clear to me that the letter says a one-off settlement payment should be made,
and theres no dispute that Mr M made two separate payments. And it seems that Mr M used
his previous, and accepted, method of making payments to settle the account rather than
those set out on the payment information sheet. So, despite the ambiguity in the letter about
how to accept the offer, it doesnt seem unreasonable that Mr M should have contacted
Capquest to discuss his intentions of making two payments rather than one, given he was
doing something different with the payments  this was after all a payment to settle the
account and not one of Mr Ms regular payments.
Its still not clear to me from Capquests response whether there was the ability to settle theaccount without needing to contact Capquest first, but in this case I find it difficult to say that
Capquest have acted unfairly to Mr M.
Mr M contacted Capquest after receiving the letters in December 2020 and by the end of
January 2021 Capquest were able to confirm that the account was closed and recorded as
partially settled. I note that after Mr M contacted Capquest, theres nothing to suggest he
was chased for further payments in December 2020 or January 2021.
Taking everything into account, while I think parts of Capquests communications could have
been clearer to Mr M in terms of what was required to accept the settlement offer made,
equally Mr M did not follow Capquests request to make a one-off payment or use one of the
payment methods set out on the information sheet that came with the letter.
While I appreciate that Mr M may well have been surprised to receive the letters in
December 2020 as he had thought the matter closed, its difficult for me to say that Mr M is
worse off here. The settlement offer Capquest proposed is not insignificant  it was 50% of
the outstanding debt. Mr M has not been required to make any further payments following
his two settlement payments, and Capquest didnt refuse settlement of his account after they
were made aware it had been Mr Ms intention to accept the offer. Rather the matter was
resolved within a reasonable time of Capquest being made aware of what had happened.
And so I think Capquest were reasonable in their steps to resolve things.
Replies to my provisional findings
 
Capquest replied to say they had nothing further to add. 
Mr M replied to my provisional decision and disagreed with my findings. Mr M raised the 
following points which Ive summarised below. 
Capquest were repeatedly reminded of Mr Ms disability and that communication by 
phone was difficult for him and the provisional findings had not taken this into 
account. 
Payments towards the account had always been made by standing order and had 
always been accepted. And there was nothing in the letter which said standing order 
payments wouldnt be accepted nor that Mr M should contact Capquest if a different 
payment method was going to be used. 
The letter did not say it was a requirement to contact Capquest in order to accept the 
offer. 
On receipt of the correspondence stating an amount was outstanding, Mr M 
immediately wrote to Capquest to explain the account had been paid off and that a 
complaint would be made to the ombudsman. Mr M says a response from Capquest, 
with no apology, confirmed the account was closed. Mr M strongly believes had he 
not expressed his intention to take things further that Capquest wouldve continued 
trying to secure additional payment from him. 
If the correspondence was unclear, then Capquest are wrong. And the offer was 
Capquests offer, not something Mr M had requested. 
Mr M requested that compensation be reconsidered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully reviewed everything Mr M has said in reply to my provisional decision and I am 
sorry to hear of the stress Mr M has experienced because of whats happened. My intention 
is not to add to Mr Ms stress, but I must decide what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case. 
While Ive considered Mr Ms points, these arent enough to persuade me to alter the 
findings I set out in my provisional decision. 
All parties agree there is nothing in the letter requiring formal acceptance of the offer 
Capquest made to Mr M, and I previously noted there was some ambiguity in Capquests 
letter. But I dont think this automatically means that compensation is due to Mr M as there 
are other considerations to take into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this case.
The offer letter requested a one-off payment  something Mr M did not do. And Mr Ms two 
separate payments to settle the account made it difficult for Capquests systems to 
reasonably recognise the payments as settlement payments. I had already noted in my 
provisional decision that Mr Ms previous method of making payments was an accepted 
method to Capquest, but Im also mindful that the payment sheet accompanying the offer 
letter set out particular methods of payment that could be used. 
I note Mr Ms submissions that while he did not request a 50% reduction in the debt to settle 
the account, he nevertheless chose to accept and benefit from this offer. And after 
understanding Mr Ms intentions Capquest accepted his two payments to settle the account. 
In the circumstances I think this was a fair thing for them to do, and so I cant say Mr M is 
worse off here as he has been able to take advantage of the offer and not had to repay the 
entire outstanding balance or make any more payments to Capquest after the two settlement 
payments.  
Mr M believes Capquest wouldnt have resolved things had he not said he would take the 
matter further, but as Im sure Mr M can appreciate its not possible for me to know what may 
or may not have happened. And while Im aware of Mr Ms submissions about the time taken 
to resolve things, I think Capquest did sort things out within a reasonable time. 
Mr M has said the letter asked for a call to discuss the account, so this didnt take into 
consideration his disability. I understand why this has upset Mr M and why he didnt wish to 
use the phone given he wasnt comfortable with doing so. But its difficult for me to say 
Capquest have acted unfairly as once they heard from Mr M by post Im unaware of any 
insistence that Mr M had to only communicate with Capquest by phone. Mr M wrote to 
Capquest to raise his concerns and Capquest replied by letter. 
Overall, I think Capquests letter could have been clearer in parts, but taking everything into 
account I dont think Mr M has been treated unfairly in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I understand this will not be the outcome Mr M had hoped for. And I realise this will come as 
a disappointment to him. But for the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold 
Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman