DRN-4189038
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs M complain about the service Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited (MAB) 
provided when they were arranging a mortgage for them. They say MAB caused their house 
purchase to fall through. And they had to buy a more expensive property with a different 
mortgage at a higher rate of interest and on less favourable terms.
What happened
In November 2021 Mrs M approached MAB about arranging a mortgage for her and Mr B. 
MAB recommended a lender that met Mr B and Mrs Ms requirements. They issued a 
decision in principle (DIP) which was valid until mid-March 2022. MAB submitted a mortgage 
application to the lender theyd recommended. 
Mrs M contacted MAB in January 2022. She let them know their transaction had fallen 
through. Mr B and Mrs M had found a new property they wanted to buy. Mrs M asked MAB 
to send them a copy of the DIP, to evidence the loan amount, which they sent in early 
February. 
In early April the lender issued an offer relating to the property theyd originally wanted to 
buy. Mr B and Mrs M lost their purchase of the new property as the seller decided to sell to 
other buyers. So as not to lose the buyer of their existing property, Mr B and Mrs M bought 
another property with a mortgage from a different company.
Mr B and Mrs M were unhappy with the service MAB had provided. They said there had 
been poor communication throughout and the advice theyd provided had been wrong. MAB 
had failed to pass on information to the lender, which had led to them issuing a mortgage 
offer for the wrong property. That had led, in turn, to the seller pulling out. So as not to lose 
their sale, theyd had to buy another, more expensive property. And theyd had to borrow 
elsewhere at a higher interest rate and on less favourable terms, since the lender would no 
longer give them a mortgage on grounds of affordability.
MAB acknowledged theyd provided poor service and offered Mr B and Mrs M £100 
compensation to put things right. Mr B and Mrs M felt MAB should compensate them for the 
losses theyd incurred in losing the purchase. Since MAB didnt agree, Mr B and Mrs M 
brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator agreed Mr B and Mrs M should be paid higher compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience theyd suffered. She thought £350 was fair. But she didnt think MAB 
could be held responsible for Mr B and Mrs M losing their purchase and lender. Since Mr B 
and Mrs M didnt agree, their complaint was passed to me to decide. I recently issued a 
provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the problems Mr B and Mrs M had in relation to their property 
transaction. I can understand it will have been a stressful time for them both. Im grateful for 
all the information the parties have provided. I wont set it out in detail here. No discourtesy 
is intended by that  it simply reflects the informal nature of the service we provide. Id like to 
reassure the parties Ive taken everything theyve said into account in coming to my decision.
For the reasons Ill explain, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator. Since my 
reasons are different in part, Im issuing a provisional decision to give the parties time to 
respond before I issue a final decision. 
MAB accept Mr B and Mrs M told them in January theyd lost the property they were buying 
then. But they say they didnt know the details of the new property until April. They refer to 
an email Mrs M sent then in which she provides the property details and asks MAB to hold 
off contacting the estate agents. They say if theyd had the details sooner theyd have got on 
with a new application at the time.
Mrs M says she told MAB over the phone in January there was a new property and provided 
the details then. She and Mr B had received the estate agents memorandum of sale by then 
and they let their solicitors know theyd found a new place, although Im not aware they gave 
them the details at the time. It seems likely they would have told MAB about the new 
property at the same time, even if they didnt provide full details.
MAB have explained they didnt let the lender know the purchase of the original property had 
fallen through in January to avoid the application being cancelled. They thought by providing 
the details of the new property when they were available, they might be able to keep the 
interest rate deal for Mr B and Mrs M.
The lenders explained that a change of property would have required a change to the 
mortgage application. Mr B and Mrs M would have had to select a new rate from those 
available at the time. The existing rate would only have been honoured if they had lost the 
property through no fault of their own, but that was at the managers discretion.
I can understand it was distressing for Mr B and Mrs M when they received an offer for the 
wrong property. And I can appreciate the seller may have pulled out because they werent 
ready to go ahead. But I cant be sure Mr B and Mrs M would have been able to proceed, 
even if MAB had updated the lender about the property. Thats because theres no 
guarantee their mortgage application to borrow against the new property would have 
succeeded, or if it had, whether the deal the lender offered would have suited them.
I appreciate that by the time Mr B and Mrs M made a new application to the lender, in 
relation to a different property, interest rates had gone up and the lender declined their 
application on grounds of affordability. But MAB couldnt have anticipated that would happen 
any more than Mr B and Mrs M could. I understand Mr B and Mrs M didnt want to lose the 
buyer they had for their property. But it was their choice to buy a more expensive property. 
Its too speculative to hold MAB responsible for the additional costs they incurred. 
Bearing everything in mind, I dont think its fair and reasonable to ask MAB to compensate 
Mr B and Mrs M for the costs associated with losing the purchase or their additional costs of 
borrowing.
Mrs Ms told us she engaged MAB to help with the mortgage application which she would 
otherwise have handled herself, because of health issues. And she says shed made MAB 
aware of those. Ive no reason to doubt that. In the circumstances, its reasonable to think 
MAB would have taken care to manage her and Mr Bs expectations about the application 
process.Mr B and Mrs M agreed to communicate with MAB by email, phone, text and face to face. It 
was reasonable for them to expect MAB to respond reasonably promptly, however they 
chose to communicate. 
MAB have accepted they should have communicated with Mr B and Mrs M more often. I 
agree. For example, from what Mrs Ms told us and the information Ive seen, MAB delayed 
sending a copy of the DIP Mrs M asked for at the end of January; they failed to respond to 
texts and emails in a timely way; and MABs notes suggest calls to their mailbox may not 
have been recorded if their mailbox had been full - Mrs M says thats what happened. 
MAB should also have managed Mr B and Mrs Ms expectations more carefully bearing in 
mind Mrs Ms health and their mortgage requirements. For example, MAB ought to have 
explained the possible impact on the mortgage application of losing the purchase in January 
2022; in early February, when Mrs M chased for a copy of the DIP, Mrs M mentioned her 
concerns about interest rates going up, but theres no evidence MAB responded to those; 
and when Mrs M rang about extending the DIP in March 2022, MAB ought to have explained 
the impact of that, if any, given shed understood an extension would be possible. 
Bearing the above in mind, the five months or so over which MAB managed Mr B and       
Mrs Ms mortgage process poorly, and the impact on Mrs M given her health, I think the 
£350 our investigator recommended is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
she and Mr B suffered as a result of MABs actions. 
My provisional decision
I intend to direct Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited to pay compensation of £350 to Mr B and 
Mrs M for distress and inconvenience.
Developments
MAB accepted my provisional decision. 
Mrs M made some comments, for which Im grateful. She didnt feel my provisional decision 
was fair. She felt the compensation didnt fairly reflect the stress and time shed spent 
dealing with things or the impact of MABs actions, as well as the change in interest rates.
Mrs M felt MAB had been incompetent, and not just responsible for failures in 
communication. And she said the provisional decision failed to take into account certain 
points, which Ill summarise:
The lender was chasing MAB for information from November 2021 but didnt receive 
it until April 2022 
MAB were given details of the property over the phone but failed to act on that 
information
MAB didnt appreciate a change of address would affect the mortgage offer 
The fact Mr B and Mrs M got an offer for the wrong address highlighted MABs 
incompetence
The lender was treating Mrs M as a vulnerable customer
The lender told Mrs M their later application wasnt declined on grounds of 
affordability.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs Ms strength of feeling about what happened. Ive acknowledged things 
were stressful for her and Mr B, and Ive noted Mrs Ms personal circumstances. As I 
explained in my provisional decision, I havent mentioned everything the parties have said 
due to the informal nature of the service we provide. Ive focused on what I consider key in 
coming to my decision. But Ive taken everything the parties have said into account, 
including the points Mrs Ms concerned Ive overlooked.
I note Mrs Ms concerns about MABs abilities in handling the application. I acknowledged in 
my provisional decision theyd mismanaged things. And I gave examples of that. Its the 
impact of how MAB acted, whether through incompetence as Mrs M believes or poor 
service, that determines how to put things right.
For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I cant be sure Mr B and Mrs M would 
have been able to proceed, even if MAB had updated the lender about the new property. 
Thats the case even though I note the lender told Mrs M their later application didnt fail on 
grounds of affordability as MABs records had suggested. I cant be sure the lenders lending 
criteria for the new property would have been met in full or that the lender would have 
offered terms that suited Mr B and Mrs M.
I said MAB couldnt have anticipated interest rates would have gone up any more than Mr B 
and Mrs M could have done. And it was too speculative to hold MAB responsible for the 
additional costs Mr B and Mrs M incurred in buying the property they went ahead with in the 
end. Im not persuaded to change my mind about that. So, the compensation I think is fair 
doesnt take those additional costs into account.
Bearing the above in mind, whilst I understand Mr B and Mrs M will be disappointed, I still 
think compensation of £350 is fair and reasonable. It reflects the poor service MAB provided 
- including the examples I gave in my provisional decision and the other evidence Ive seen. 
And it takes account of Mr B and Mrs Ms circumstances and the impact of MABs actions on 
them.
Putting things right
Bearing all of the above in mind, I think Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited should pay Mr B 
and Mrs M £350 compensation.
My final decision
I direct Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited to pay compensation of £350 to Mr B and Mrs M for 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman