DRN-3758736
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that ReAssure Limited repeatedly told them they both had 
critical illness cover.  But, when Mr H tried to make a claim, ReAssure told him only Mrs H 
had that cover.
What happened
In 1997, Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with a business Ill call L.  Alongside this, they 
bought an endowment plan.  The plan provided life cover for them both.  But an extra 
premium was due from Mr H on the basis of the medical history hed declared.  And it only 
provided £26,000 worth of critical illness cover for Mrs H.
The policy was later sold by L to ReAssure.  ReAssure sent Mr and Mrs H statements, which 
said they both had cover for life and critical illness. 
In 2018, Mr H was diagnosed with lymphoma.  He was subsequently diagnosed with another 
form of cancer.  In 2021, he submitted a claim to ReAssure for the critical illness benefit. 
ReAssure considered the claim and declined it.  They wrote to Mr H and told him hed never 
held critical illness cover.  And they provided a copy of Ls paperwork confirming this.
Despite what ReAssure told Mr H, they wrote to Mr and Mrs H again twice in 2022, setting 
out policy information.  Both letters again showed they both had critical illness cover.
Mr H complained to ReAssure about what had happened.  And he said hed been told during 
calls to ReAssure he had cover.  So it was devastating to be told that wasnt the case.  He 
told ReAssure he thought they should honour the claim.
ReAssure considered the complaint and apologised for incorrectly telling Mr H hed had 
critical illness cover when that wasnt the case.  They said that, when hed made a claim in 
2021, theyd told him he didnt have this benefit under the policy and had sent him a 
schedule showing the cover he and Mrs H had. 
While ReAssure acknowledged their mistake, they said they wouldnt provide cover as Mr H 
had never had the benefit of critical illness cover.  They offered Mr H £300 compensation for 
what had happened. 
Mr and Mrs H werent satisfied with ReAssures response and brought their complaint to us.  
Our investigator considered it and thought ReAssure should offer more compensation for the 
distress their mistake had caused.  He thought £600 was a more appropriate sum to 
recognise this.  But he said he couldnt say ReAssure should pay the critical illness claim, as 
the policy schedule Mr and Mrs H had received from L made it clear this was excluded.
ReAssure accepted the investigators view.  Mr H felt £600 wasnt enough to compensate 
him for what had happened and that £1,000 was a more appropriate figure.  ReAssure 
declined to offer this.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint.  But Im not requiring ReAssure to pay 
any more than the £600 our investigator thought was a fair amount to resolve this complaint.  
Ill explain why.
I understand why Mr H feels ReAssure should pay his critical illness claim.  But I can only 
direct a business to do more in relation to something theyve done wrong.  Im satisfied from 
the documentation Ive seen that Mr H didnt have critical illness cover.  So I cant say 
ReAssure did anything wrong by declining his claim.
But ReAssure did send Mr and Mrs H an annual statement which indicated they both had 
critical illness cover.  So Im not surprised Mr H tried to make a claim in 2021.  ReAssure 
declined that claim and wrote to Mr H explaining why in mid-May 2021.  
But Mr Hs concerns were aggravated by receiving two more letters in spring 2022, which 
again said he had critical illness cover.  ReAssure have said this was because, when they 
bought the policy, the details were incorrectly loaded into their system and, although theyve 
tried to get them changed, this cant be done.  
I accept that explanation.  And I think its the most likely reason Mr and Mrs H continued to 
get letters telling Mr H he had a benefit he didnt.  But I agree with our investigator it 
unnecessarily increased Mr and Mrs Hs stress at a difficult time for them.  I think they 
should be compensated for that.
Putting things right
ReAssure originally offered Mr and Mrs H £300 compensation for sending them letters 
containing the wrong information.  Our investigator thought that should be increased to £600.  
Mr H has told us he wants at least £1,000, but really feels ReAssure should pay £9,000.  Ive 
thought carefully about what amount is fair here.
Mr H has based what hes said on the different between the value of the critical illness 
benefit and the maturity value of the endowment.  I understand his reasoning.  But Mr H had 
no critical illness cover.  So he was never entitled to any payment under that part of the 
policy.  Nor is the maturity value relevant to the issue of Mr and Mrs H receiving incorrect 
information about the cover they had.
Im only considering the level of compensation for receiving that wrong information.  Im 
satisfied that it caused Mr and Mrs H considerable distress and upset.  And that, having 
been told in 2021 Mr H had no critical illness, the 2022 letters would also have been 
confusing.  I agree with our investigator that £600 is a reasonable amount of compensation 
for the distress and confusion ReAssure have caused them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about ReAssure 
Limited and directing ReAssure to pay them £600 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 Helen Stacey
Ombudsman