DRN-3826539
The complaint
Miss S has complained about the way Accelerant Insurance Europe SA/NV dealt with a 
claim she made for damage to her home under a buildings insurance policy. Miss S says her 
home wasnt properly dried out from water ingress before repairs were done under her claim. 
She says her home is still damp and mould damage is present from the original water 
flooding into her home. 
All reference to the insurer Accelerant in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
In July 2021 Miss S reported water flooding into her home through an outside wall. The 
cause of the flood was due to water overflowing from a blocked outside pipe in the property 
above her flat. 
Her insurer Accelerant appointed a Loss Adjuster (LA) to handle the claim on its behalf. 
Miss S complained about the way her claim was handled. She said she had to hire a 
humidifier because of the delay in the handling of her claim. Miss S said she should have 
been provided with a drying certificate by the insurer, but wasnt. She said the decorating 
repairs were carried out before the walls were completely dry and as a result the paint and 
wallpaper started to peel a short while later. 
Miss S complained about damage to the contents of her home. 
Accelerant upheld Miss Ss complaint in part. It acknowledged it had caused a delay in 
authorising her claim for repairs and paid her £50 compensation. It reimbursed Miss S for 
the costs of hiring a humidifier. 
However, it said moisture readings carried out to the home showed normal levels. It didnt 
agree the repairs had been carried out before the walls were completely dry. It said it was 
possible there were other reasons for the damage such as; a possible small leak elsewhere, 
that the radiators could be run more efficiently, or that the ventilation wasnt as good as it 
could be - but said it wasnt due to the claim related damage caused in July 2021. 
Accelerant explained that Miss Ss policy with it only provided cover for damage to the 
building, not the contents. Miss S would need to make a separate claim to her contents 
insurer. 
Miss S asked us to look at things for her. She made a separate complaint to the housing 
association and brought that complaint to the housing ombudsman. 
Miss S provided us with a report from a damp specialist to support her complaint. Our 
Investigator passed this to Accelerant to obtain their comments before issuing his view. 
Accelerant said the LAs report with photos from July 2021 shows the property wasnt 
saturated or showing signs of mould. Repairs were completed at the end of October 2021. 
Further moisture readings taken by the housing association in November 2021 showed 
normal levels in the rooms affected by the flood and where repairs were carried out. 
The Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Although the report 
provided by Miss S concluded it was unlikely that the way Miss S ensured the flat was 
ventilated had any effect, the specialist didnt conclude as to the cause of the damage Miss 
S was claiming for. The area of damage Miss S said was due to ongoing damp was in a 
different part of the flat to where the flood water came in. So the Investigator found there 
wasnt sufficient evidence to show that Accelerant was responsible for the ongoing damage 
Miss S was claiming for. 
Miss S didnt agree. In summary she says her contents insurer believes her contents were 
damaged as a result of the flood and that the walls were damp when repairs were carried 
out. She asks if this service will seek compensation on her behalf for the costs of hiring a 
humidifier. 
Miss S wants this service to confirm it accepts that her contents were damaged by damp - 
and that it wasnt her lifestyle or inability to ventilate her home that caused damp. 
Miss S says neither the housing association nor the LA can locate the cause of the damp. 
Miss S believes her complaint hasnt been taken seriously. She says it was the insurers 
responsibility to ensure her home was put back in the position it was in before the flood. But 
her home is still damp. 
So Miss S wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt for us to investigate and decide on a claim for the insurer - but to consider whether the 
insurer acted reasonably and in line with the policy. This is a subtle but important distinction 
to make. 
In order to say that Accelerant acted unreasonably, I need to be satisfied from the evidence 
available that this shows it didnt deal with Miss Ss claim in a fair and reasonable way. 
In this case, the information provided by both Miss S and Accelerant doesnt show that the 
buildings area of damage affected by the flood (which is the claim the insurer is responsible 
for) has ongoing damp. Moisture readings provided in November 2021 showed normal levels 
in the rooms affected by the flood in July 2021. Miss S has provided humidity data readings. 
This information isnt enough to let me safely conclude that Accelerant is responsible for the 
damage Miss S is claiming for since claim related repairs were carried out to the building 
under the policy. 
The LA on behalf of Accelerant arranged for a refund for the costs of hiring a humidifier on 
15 November 2021, taking around a working week to reach Miss Ss account. If Miss S didnt 
receive this payment, she will need to contact Accelerant to request a re-issue of the 
payment. The LA upheld Miss Ss complaint that it had caused a delay in authorising repairs 
which contributed to Miss Ss decision to hire a humidifier. I think the compensation payment 
of £50 paid for the delay is fair in this case. 
I understand Miss S will be very disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not 
upholding her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman