DRN-3836313
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Paragon Bank Plc (Paragon) failed to complete her second ISA 
transfer and failed to adequately notify her that further action needed to be taken.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision issued on 18 October 2022. In my provisional decision I explained how I intended to 
resolve the complaint. I said:
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Paragon Bank Plc has accepted our Investigators opinion, but Mrs E has disagreed.
She maintains that Paragon Bank Plc should have been clearer in its messaging about the
failed transfer, and that it was reasonable to assume from its update that it would continue to
try and complete the transfer without Mrs Es intervention. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill
focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different opinion to our Investigator for these reasons:
On the evidence, Im not convinced that Paragon was clear enough in its update 
about the status of both transfers  I think its reasonable for Mrs E to have taken 
from Paragons email that no further action was required.
I say this because there was no differentiation or descriptors to make it clear that 
individual transfers were being discussed, and the email ended with confirmation that 
another attempt would be made.
But Im not convinced that even if Paragon had correctly updated Mrs E the end 
result for the transfer would have differed  the first transfer started the funding 
period for the account which ended only a day before the second transfer could even 
have possibly begun. In short, Im not satisfied that even if everything had gone 
correctly the second transfer wouldve completed in time.
But regardless of this, I do think that Paragon need to do more to acknowledge the 
impact had on Mrs E  it wouldve been understandably frustrating to find that the 
account was waiting for further action from her, I dont think the £15 offered is a fair 
and reasonable recognition of this.
To award any compensation Id need to be satisfied that the impact of Paragons 
error was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. And its clear that this is 
the case  Mrs E was understandably upset to find that the transfer had been waiting 
for further action from her, and the subsequent rush to try and resolve the matter 
wouldve been upsetting. Equally, I must be mindful of the fact that the transfer would 
not have had sufficient time to complete regardless of the mistake Paragon made.
I think that in the circumstances, a payment of £100 in total would be a fairer 
reflection of the distress caused.
I intend to say that Paragon should pay Mrs E £100 in total to acknowledge the impact its
mistake has made.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to say that Paragon Bank Plc should pay Mrs E £100
in total to resolve the complaint.
I asked for both parties to provide me with any further submissions they had before I issued 
my decision. Mrs E accepted my findings, whilst Paragon provided further comments. Ive 
carefully considered the further representations made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Paragon accepted its correspondence had caused confusion but felt that £50 instead of 
£100 would be the most proportionate resolution considering its errors had likely not resulted 
in a change to the result of the transfer.
Ive considered this carefully. As mentioned in my provisional decision, regardless of the 
likely result it wouldve been understandably frustrating for Mrs E to find that her account had 
been awaiting further action. Paragons communication had raised her expectations to 
believe another attempt was being made on her behalf. The subsequent rush to then try and 
resolve the matter in time, when the communications could have instead explained the next 
steps needed to be taken, also clearly impacted Mrs E and could have been avoided.
This impacted Mrs E regardless of the likely outcome of the transfer. Im satisfied a total of 
£100 compensation appropriately recognises the impact caused by Paragons errors and is 
fair and reasonable compensation for this complaint.
Putting things right
Mrs E has confirmed she deposited the £15 cheque previously offered by Paragon, so to 
resolve the complaint Paragon Bank Plc should pay Mrs E a further £85 to bring the total 
compensation paid to £100.
My final decision
My decision is that this complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman