DRN-2314334
The complaint
Mr H complains about how TSB Bank plc sends his statements on his Premier Plus account, 
and about the service he has received.
What happened
Mr H has a joint Premier Plus account with his daughter, Mrs C. Mr H says TSB has 
changed the way his statements are sent to him. He says previously, he received statements 
addressed only to him at his home address. Now he receives statements addressed to both 
him and Mrs C, at his home address, despite Mrs C living at a different address.   
Mr H is also unhappy with the general customer service hes received from TSB. He raises a 
number of concerns, including that hes often put through to an automated machine rather 
than an adviser when he calls. He also complains that the automated machine takes a long 
time to deal with his queries. Mr H complained to TSB.
TSB reviewed matters and said that some of the issues Mr H raised about telephone 
banking had already been addressed in a separate complaint, in June 2018. It said it hadnt 
recorded any further telephone banking issues since then, but it wanted to pay Mr H an extra 
£40 compensation for the previous complaint hed raised, to ensure he was being treated 
fairly and consistently. Unhappy with its response, Mr H brought his complaint to our service.
In a more recent response to the issues Mr H raised, TSB said the reason that statements 
were being sent addressed to both Mr H and Mrs C, at their respective addresses, was 
because the account was a joint account in both of their names. So, it didnt think the 
statements had been sent in error to Mrs C. 
Mr H brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things and 
concluded TSB had treated Mr H fairly. He explained that TSB changed the formatting of its 
statements to reflect both account holders on each statement, which would then be sent to 
each account holders respective address. He said this was a commercial decision that TSB 
had made, which our service wouldnt get involved with. Our investigator understood Mr Hs 
frustration with speaking to an automated machine and waiting on hold, but didnt think it 
was for us to tell a business how its processes should be run.
TSB didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mr H did. Amongst other things, he said 
the account wasnt a joint account and, instead, Mrs C was named as a third party. He was 
also unhappy he wasnt told about any changes TSB were making to his statements and 
thought he had been treated unfairly because of this. He said he tried to amend this in 
branch but wasnt able to. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think TSB has treated Mr H fairly. Ill explain my reasons why.
TSB hasnt been able to tell us exactly when Mrs C was added onto the account, but it has 
sent us a screenshot of its internal system showing Mr H and Mrs C as joint account holders. 
So, Im satisfied that the account is a joint account and has been for a number of years. Mr H 
completed a direct debit mandate in 2015 naming him and Mrs C as the account holders, so 
I think he was aware it was a joint account. And, on this basis, Im satisfied that TSB has 
been correct in sending statements to both Mr H and Mrs C as joint account holders.
As I understand it, Mr H is unhappy that he now receives statements addressed to both him 
and Mrs C rather than just him. He mentions visiting a branch to amend this, but nothing was 
done. TSB doesnt have any record of Mr Hs branch visit. It has, however, explained it 
received some complaints about how its statements were previously formatted for joint 
accounts, with only one account holder named on the statement. So, following this, it made a 
decision to reference both account holders on statements for joint accounts. Having 
considered this, Im satisfied its explanation is accurate. 
Ive considered that Mr H says he wanted to be made aware of these changes before they 
happened. However, I dont think this is something TSB needed to do. I say this because 
Ive considered the impact the changes had on Mr H and Mrs C. And, the information Ive 
been presented with shows that both Mr H and Mrs C are still being sent statements 
regularly for their account, to the addresses that TSB holds for them. So, I cant conclude 
that the changes have caused them any detriment.
I understand Mr H dislikes the automated telephone machine and prefers speaking with an 
adviser. I acknowledge Mr Hs frustration at not being able to speak with an adviser, 
particularly if things take longer to deal with via the automated machine. But its common for 
banks (and many other businesses, such as utility providers and indeed, government 
departments) to make use of automated systems and I think its reasonable for TSB to do 
the same.
Im aware Mr H had a complaint about telephone banking a few years ago, which was 
resolved to his satisfaction. Following the recent concerns he has raised, TSB has offered a 
further £40 compensation to ensure he has been fairly compensated overall. Given that Ive 
been unable to identify any further problems here, I think TSB dealt with this part of the 
complaint fairly.
As I understand it, Mr H would prefer his statements to only show his name. As the account 
is a joint account, TSB has told us this wouldnt be possible. If Mr H would like to change 
whos party to the account, hell need to attend a branch with Mrs C to make the request.
My final decision
TSB Bank plc has dealt with this complaint fairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman