DRN-4321677
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited wouldnt allow them to 
take a new fixed interest rate on their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L had a mortgage with Kensington  during the course of this complaint, its 
been transferred to a new lender, but as the complaint relates to the period of Kensingtons 
ownership, and because the complaint was made before the transfer, Kensington remains 
responsible for answering this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L took their mortgage out in 2006, borrowing around £175,000 on interest only 
terms over 23 years. Their mortgage was on a fixed rate of 7.79% for the first three years, 
followed by a variable rate 3% above Kensingtons standard variable rate (SVR). The SVR 
was linked to the LIBOR rate, such that it would never be less than 1% above LIBOR or 
more than 3% above LIBOR. 
In practice the SVR has tended to be set at 3% above LIBOR, which means that following 
the end of their fixed rate Mr and Mrs L were paying 6% above LIBOR. LIBOR was 
withdrawn in 2021 and after that the SVR was linked to Kensingtons LIBOR replacement. 
Mr and Mrs L say theyve asked Kensington about taking new interest rates over the years, 
but its told them it didnt have any rates available to them. However, in June 2022, 
Kensington did write to offer Mr and Mrs L a reduced variable rate (a rate it calls its 
mortgage prisoner rate). Mr and Mrs L accepted that rate, and complained that Kensington 
hadnt previously offered them a lower interest rate. 
Kensington said this was an offer unlikely to be repeated. The rate it offered was linked to 
the Kensington Standard Rate (KSR)  tracking 3.88% above the KSR for the rest of the 
mortgage term. The offer said the KSR would be reviewed quarterly and set at 1% above the 
Bank of England base rate at the time of the review. Kensington said it was making this offer 
because it had identified that Mr and Mrs L were potential mortgage prisoners  meaning 
they were up to date with their mortgage but unable to take an alternative product. 
In effect, therefore, in June 2022 Mr and Mrs L moved from a rate 6% above the LIBOR 
replacement to one 4.88% above Bank of England base rate. 
Mr and Mrs L have previously complained about the circumstances in which they took out 
this mortgage, and whether Kensington has treated them fairly in the options made available 
to them to deal with repayment of the capital by the end of the term. We said that the 
complaint about the lending decision was out of time, and that Kensington hadnt acted 
unfairly  it was currently unaffordable for Mr and Mrs L to switch to repayment terms, but 
they and Kensington should keep matters under review. As weve dealt with those 
complaints before, I wont say anything further about them here.
This complaint is about whether it was fair that Kensington didnt offer Mr and Mrs L a new 
interest rate before 2022.  
Kensington said it hadnt acted unfairly. It told Mr and Mrs L that their mortgage had been 
securitised, which meant their interest rate could not be reviewed before 31 March 2022, so 
Kensington could not have offered Mr and Mrs L a new rate before it did.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said Mr and Mrs L had asked 
for a new rate in July 2019 and acting fairly Kensington ought to have offered them a new 
rate at that point. She said Kensington should ensure their mortgage was re-worked as if 
that had happened, and it should pay them £300 compensation.
Mr and Mrs L broadly accepted that outcome, but said that the rate should be backdated 
further, to 2017. Kensington didnt agree. It said Mr and Mrs L werent eligible for a new 
interest rate until 2022 and the rate it had offered them in June 2022 was fair. It didnt think it 
should take any further action. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint comes to 
me for a decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage was taken out in 2006, before the global financial crisis. 
Kensington has explained to us that its lending business model is very different now. It says 
that Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage  along with others taken out around the same time  has 
been securitised. Its a term of the securitisation that no changes can be made, and so it 
wasnt able to offer them a new interest rate before June 2022. 
Securitisation isnt unusual in the mortgage industry, and not inherently unfair. But its a 
choice made by Kensington to structure its business in a particular way, and as such its 
something done to Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage by Kensington, rather than being of itself a 
characteristic of them or their mortgage. 
Thats important because of the relevance of a particular provision in the mortgage rules to 
this complaint. The mortgage rules are known as MCOB, and MCOB 11.8.1 E (the E means 
this is an evidential provision rather than a rule) says that where a borrower is unable to 
move their mortgage elsewhere, their existing mortgage lender 
should not (for example, by offering less favourable interest rates or other terms) 
take advantage of the customers situation or treat the customer any less favourably 
than it would treat other customers with similar characteristics. To do so may be 
relied on as tending to show a breach of the requirement to treat customers fairly. 
Kensington didnt offer new interest rates to any existing customers before 2017. And so 
when it didnt offer a new rate to Mr and Mrs L, it wasnt acting unfairly  theres no 
requirement to offer new rates to existing customers, and other customers werent being 
treated more favourably than Mr and Mrs L.
Once Kensington did start offering rates, however, it should have done so fairly. Its entitled 
to have eligibility criteria  which might mean some customers are eligible for rates and 
others arent  but any application should be considered fairly.
Kensingtons criteria for offering rates include matters such as loan to value, and that the 
mortgage should not be in arrears or have other sums outstanding. Mr and Mrs L met those 
criteria.
Its criteria also include that rates are not available to customers whose mortgage was taken out before 2010  and that includes Mr and Mrs L. Im not persuaded that this resulted in fair 
treatment of Mr and Mrs L. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs L were unable to move their 
mortgage elsewhere to look for a better rate. I say that because of everything theyve said 
about their circumstances; because theyve got an interest only mortgage and switching to 
repayment terms is unlikely to be unaffordable for them; and  not least  because 
Kensington itself concluded they were mortgage prisoners in 2022. 
So Mr and Mrs L were unable to take a new interest rate by moving to another lender. 
Regardless of what Kensington charged them, they were obliged to remain with Kensington. 
Im satisfied that means MCOB 11.8.1 E is relevant here. It doesnt always mean that there 
is unfairness where a customer is refused a new interest rate. But I think its aimed at 
ensuring that where a customer cant shop around  as Mr and Mrs L cant  theyre treated 
fairly by their existing lender and not offered worse rates than other customers who could 
shop around.
Mr and Mrs L met most of Kensingtons rate switch criteria. They had an acceptable loan to 
value and  by 2019  their mortgage hadnt been in arrears for some time and was up to 
date. 
They didnt meet the requirement to have taken out their mortgage after 2010. But Im not 
satisfied it was fair for Kensington to use this  or the terms on which their mortgage was 
securitised as a result  to refuse them a rate. I dont think the age of their mortgage is a 
relevant characteristic for the purposes of the comparison envisaged in MCOB 11.8.1 E. Nor 
is the fact that its been securitised  thats not a characteristic of Mr and Mrs L or their 
mortgage; its a choice made by Kensington to organise its business in a certain way. I dont 
think its fair to say that Kensingtons obligations of fair treatment dont apply because of how 
its chosen to structure its business.
Im therefore satisfied that a customer whose mortgage was taken out after 2010, but who 
was otherwise similar to Mr and Mrs L, would have been offered a new rate. That other 
customer has similar characteristics to Mr and Mrs L, but Mr and Mrs L were treated less 
favourably. I dont think thats fair.
Our investigator reached the same conclusion. In reply, Kensington said there was another 
reason Mr and Mrs L didnt qualify for a new rate. It said that was because the reversion rate 
on any fixed rate they might take was higher than the reversion rate they were currently on  
and it was part of its standard criteria that it didnt offer rates in this situation. Im not 
persuaded by this. 
Its arguable that this ought fairly to be a matter for a customer to decide. A customer might 
not go on to the reversion rate after a new fixed rate if Kensington ought fairly to offer 
another new rate at that point. 
In any case I dont need to decide this point, since it doesnt apply to Mr and Mrs L. 
Kensington said the reversion rate on the fixed rate that would have been available to them 
in 2019 was 4% above LIBOR, whereas Mr and Mrs Ls existing rate was at the time 3% 
above LIBOR. As the reversion rate on a new fixed rate was higher than their existing 
reversion rate, they werent eligible for a rate. 
But Kensington isnt right about that. Its SVR was 3% above LIBOR  but Mr and Mrs L 
werent on the SVR. Their mortgage offer said their reversion rate was the SVR plus 3%, 
which means Mr and Mrs Ls individual reversion rate was not 3% above LIBOR but 6% 
above LIBOR. So the reversion rate on the fixed rates available in 2019  4% above LIBOR 
 was lower, not higher, than their existing reversion rate. And so even if this was a fair thing 
to include in the eligibility criteria, it wasnt a barrier to Mr and Mrs L taking a new rate.Applying its rate switch criteria correctly, therefore, there was no barrier to Mr and Mrs L 
taking a new fixed rate with Kensington other than the fact that their mortgage was taken out 
before 2010  and Ive already explained why, taking into account MCOB 11.8.1 E, I dont 
think thats a relevant characteristic that should have been used to refuse them a new rate.
Im therefore satisfied that Kensington ought to have offered Mr and Mrs L a new fixed rate 
when they enquired about one. 
Ive thought about when that might be. Ive looked at Kensingtons records, which show that 
Mr and Mrs L asked Kensington for a new interest rate in a call on 4 July 2019, but it told 
them there was nothing available and recommended they take independent financial advice. 
Mr and Mrs L say that they asked for a rate before that, they think in 2017. They havent 
been able to provide any evidence of that other than their recollection. But in any case, even 
if theyre right about that, I dont think it would be fair to ask Kensington to backdate a new 
fixed rate to 2017. 
Ive said that one of Kensingtons criteria for a new fixed rate, which it applies to all 
customers, is that the mortgage must not have been in arrears in the last 12 months. But in 
2017 Mr and Mrs L were in arrears having experienced previous financial difficulty. They 
cleared the arrears in December 2017. The mortgage has been up to date since then. So if 
Mr and Mrs L did ask Kensington about a new rate in 2017, they wouldnt have been eligible 
because of the arrears, and it wouldnt be fair to ask Kensington to implement a rate from 
2017 now. But by July 2019, they had been free of arrears for over 18 months, and so did 
meet Kensingtons criteria.
Putting things right
To put matters right, Kensington should put Mr and Mrs L back in the position they would 
have been in had it treated them fairly when they asked for a rate in July 2019.
At that time, for Mr and Mrs Ls then loan to value, it had a five year fixed rate of 4.09% 
available. Mr and Mrs L say they would have taken a five year rate to give them long term 
stability and I see no reason to doubt what they say. Assuming some time to process an 
application, I think Kensington should re-work their mortgage as if that rate had been 
implemented from 1 September 2019.
While this complaint has been in progress, Kensington has transferred Mr and Mrs Ls 
mortgage to a new lender. That makes the redress less straightforward. 
Mr and Mrs L have paid more than they should have done since 1 September 2019, 
because theyve been charged more interest than they would have been on a fixed rate of 
4.09%. 
Firstly, Kensington should ask Mr and Mrs L whether they want those additional payments 
refunded to them, or used to reduce their mortgage balance.
If Mr and Mrs L want a refund, Kensington should calculate the amount Mr and Mrs L have 
overpaid between September 2019 and the date it makes the calculation. It should add 
simple annual interest of 8% running from the date of each monthly overpayment to the date 
of the refund. And it should pay the result to Mr and Mrs L as a lump sum. If Mr and Mrs L 
choose this option, Kensington can deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my 
award, as required by HMRC, but it should tell Mr and Mrs L what its deducted so they can 
reclaim the tax if theyre eligible to do so.If, on the other hand, Mr and Mrs L want the overpayments used to reduce their mortgage 
balance, Kensington should work through their mortgage month by month, reducing the 
balance by the overpayment each month and reducing the interest charged in subsequent 
months to account for the lower balance. Doing this should give Kensington the balance of 
their mortgage as at the date of the calculation as it would have been based on what 
Mr and Mrs L actually paid and the revised interest rate. It should then find out their actual 
balance from the new lender and pay the difference between the two to the new lender to 
reduce their balance to what it should be.
Kensington hasnt told us whether the 4.09% rate included an arrangement fee, but if it did 
Kensington can offset the fee from whichever redress option Mr and Mrs L choose.
For the remaining payments between the calculation and the expiry of the fixed rate at the 
end of August 2024, Kensington will need to make arrangements with the new lender to 
ensure that Mr and Mrs L are charged a fixed rate of 4.09%. 
From August 2024 onwards, if Mr and Mrs L had taken the fixed rate in 2019 their interest 
rate would revert to 4% above LIBOR  now the Kensington Synthetic LIBOR Rate (KSLR) 
Kensington uses to replace LIBOR. And so Kensington will also need to make arrangements 
with the new lender to ensure that Mr and Mrs L are charged 4% above KSLR, rather than 
3.88% above KSR, from August 2024 onwards  unless the new lender is able to offer them 
a new fixed rate at that time. Thats because if Mr and Mrs L had taken a fixed rate in 2019 
they wouldnt have taken the mortgage prisoner rate in 2022, so after the expiry of the fixed 
rate they should be charged that lenders fixed rate not the mortgage prisoner rate.
In either case, if Kensington is unable to ensure the new lender adjusts the interest rate in 
the way Ive set out above, Kensington will need to keep matters under review and 
compensate Mr and Mrs L on an ongoing basis for each month in which they are charged 
more interest than they should have been until their mortgage is paid off or until the new 
lender offers them a new interest rate (if it has them available), whichever comes first.
Finally, I agree that Mr and Mrs L were caused distress and inconvenience through having to 
pay more interest than they should have done, because Kensington unfairly refused them an 
interest rate in 2019. I agree £300 is fair compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Kensington Mortgage Company Limited 
should put matters right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman