DRN-3751205
The complaint
Miss C complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Miss C was provided with a Marbles branded credit card with an initial credit limit of £250 in 
July 2021. The credit limit was increased on two occasions: first in December 2021 to £750 
and then in April 2022 to £1,700.
Miss C says that had adequate checks been carried out, NewDay would have realised that 
the initial lending and subsequent credit limit increases werent affordable. She said she had 
struggled with missed payments before the credit card was provided and had a county court 
judgement against her at the time.
NewDay said that before the credit card was provided it gathered information from Miss C. It 
said she was recorded as being employed with an annual income of £22,000 and had 
unsecured debts of £100. It carried out a credit check and said Miss C met its lending 
criteria. NewDay said that adequate checks were carried out before the credit card was 
provided and before the credit limit increases took place.
Our investigator didnt think that NewDay should have increased Miss Cs credit limit from 
£750 to £1,700 in April 2022. She didnt think proportionate checks were carried out before 
the increase. She thought that if NewDay had verified Miss Cs financial situation it was likely 
it wouldnt have offered her a significant increase in her credit card limit due to her 
circumstances.
NewDay disagreed with our investigators view. It said it wasnt required to verify Miss Cs 
income and expenditure and the checks it carried out were proportionate. It said based on its 
checks the credit limit increase was affordable for Miss C.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
The credit search carried out by NewDay before lending to Miss C showed she had 
seven defaulted accounts totalling £1,600. The most recent default was 42 months 
prior to the application. It said Miss C had no adverse public records, no payday 
loans and no accounts in arrears at the time of her application. While this showed 
that Miss C had experienced previous problems managing her money, given the 
defaults were historic, and Miss C had declared an annual income of £22,000, I didnt 
think I had enough to say that providing her with a credit card account with a credit 
limit of £250 was unreasonable.
Miss Cs credit limit was increased to £750 in December 2021. NewDay said that an 
in-depth evaluation was carried out before the limit increase was offered. I noted this, 
but given it was five months since the account was opened and the limit was being 
increased threefold, I thought it would have been reasonable to carry out further 
checks to understand Miss Cs income and expenses to ensure the increased credit 
limit was affordable.
Miss C wasnt been able to provide copies of her bank statements for the period 
leading up to the first increase. Without this I focussed my assessment on Miss Cs 
account management in the five months between account opening and the limit 
increase. Miss C was making regular payments, some of which were substantially 
higher than the minimum amount. She incurred one late fee, but I didnt find that I 
had enough evidence to say that this increase shouldnt have been provided.
In April 2022, Miss Cs credit limit was increased to £1,700. This was over six times 
the initial limit. I looked at Miss Cs account management and while I didnt find this 
raised concerns that would necessarily prevent a further credit limit increase, given 
the size of the increase I thought that NewDay should have carried out further checks 
to verify Miss Cs income and expenses to ensure the limit increase was affordable. 
NewDay said that it wasnt required to see copies of Miss Cs bank statements, but I 
thought it was proportionate that NewDay carried out checks that would give a clear 
picture of Miss Cs financial circumstances at that time. Therefore, I looked at 
Miss Cs bank statements as a way of seeing what NewDay would most likely have 
known had it carried out further checks.
Miss Cs bank statements for the months leading up to the April 2022 credit limit 
increase showed she was receiving around £2,200 a month. Her income was 
predominantly from benefits. She had some regular commitments and her outgoings 
tended to be similar to her income. However, she was spending on essential as well 
as non-essential items and making repayments towards her credit cards that were at 
times substantially above the minimum requirement. Based on the information 
included in Miss Cs bank statements I didnt find I had enough to say that further 
checks would have shown the limit increase to have been unaffordable.
I also considered whether further checks would have shown signs that Miss C was 
struggling financially. On balance, I didnt think the bank statements showed Miss C 
was experiencing significant issues in managing her account.
The bank statements showed that Miss C took out a £250 short term loan in March 
2022. This could suggest she was struggling to manage her finances, however as 
there was only the one loan recorded and looking at the information NewDay 
provided about Miss Cs credit commitments I didnt find that this was enough to say 
that further checks would have shown Miss C was in financial difficulty and that the 
further credit would be unaffordable.
Overall while I thought further checks should have taken place before the credit limit 
increases, especially noting the size of the increases, I didnt find these would have shown 
the increases to have been unaffordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Miss Cs complaint.NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and Miss Cs income and expenditure.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I dont think that the information received before the 
initial lending decision took place suggested the credit limit of £250 was unaffordable. 
Miss Cs credit limit was then increased to £750. I thought further checks should have taken 
place before this increase but based on the information I received I didnt find I could say 
these would have shown the increase to have been unaffordable. 
Miss Cs credit limit was then increased to £1,700. This was a significant increase and I think 
further checks were needed to ensure this additional credit was affordable. However, having 
considered the information provided I dont think I have enough to say that had further 
checks taken place these would have shown the lending to have been unaffordable.
I didnt receive any new information in response to my provisional decision that changed my 
conclusions. Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman