DRN-2929335
The complaint
Mr S complains that hes been discriminated against by Barclays Bank UK PLC because its 
branches are only open whilst hes at work. 
What happened
Last year, Mr S complained to Barclays because he found that branches were only open 
when he was at work. Mr S has explained he works full time during the week so his only 
opportunity to visit a branch to withdraw cash is at the weekend. But Mr S local branches 
werent open when he tried to visit. 
Mr S complained but Barclays didnt agree it had made a mistake. Barclays explained Mr S 
could use cash machines and counter services at the Post Office to complete withdrawals. 
Barclays said that during the pandemic it took the decision to close its branches on selected 
days. Barclays said it wasnt obliged to cover Mr S expenses for visiting a branch. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They didnt 
find Mr S had been discriminated against and didnt uphold his complaint. Mr S asked to 
appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has said, the relevant legislation that sets out the grounds for 
discrimination is set out in the Equalities Act 2010. There are nine protected characteristics 
given in the legislation  age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage, pregnancy, race, 
religion or belief, sex and sexual orientation. 
Mr S complains that Barclays has discriminated against him because he works full time and 
cant visit a branch at the weekend. As working full time isnt a protected characteristic as set 
out in the legislation, I dont agree Barclays has discriminated against Mr S in this case. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Barclays has treated Mr S fairly in light of its decision to 
limit branch access during the pandemic. I dont doubt that reducing the availability of 
branches has impacted Mr S. I understand hes at work when local branches are open. Mr S 
has told us he would need to take time off to visit a branch which would cost him money. But 
Barclays has explained Mr S could use a cash point or Post Office counter for withdrawals. 
And Barclays says Mr S could also transfer larger sums as required. 
I understand Mr S concerns but I think its fair to say Barclays has been operating in very 
unusual circumstances. And Barclays says its decision to limit branch access was taken on 
the basis of protecting customers and staff. Ive looked online and can see Barclays opening 
hours remain restricted. But I found a branch that opens on Saturdays within a reasonable 
distance of Mr S home. I appreciate visiting that branch will be less convenient than the 
local branch. But I think that reflects the challenging times caused by the pandemic rather 
than a mistake by Barclays. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I havent found Barclays has treated him unfairly by taking 
the decision to limit branch opening hours. As Im satisfied Barclays dealt with Mr S 
complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman