DRN-3453940
Complaint
Mr B has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says he was in financial difficulty and shouldnt have been provided with 
this loan.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr B with a loan for £1,500.00 in November 2017. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £152.19. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr B and 118 118 Money had told us. And she 
thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly. So she 
didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint be upheld. Mr B disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr B complaint.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr B could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Bs application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr B could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr B has said he 
was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr B and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that 118 118 Money has provided a record of the results of its 
credit searches. 118 118 Money searches appear to show that Mr B had had previous 
difficulties repaying credit but that his commitments at the time were relatively well 
maintained. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr Bs debt total at the time of the 
applications was reasonable in comparison to his income and they appeared to be relatively 
well managed. 
I accept that Mr B appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information 118 118 Money 
obtained. But even if I accept that 118 118 Moneys checks ought to have gone into the 
depth Mr B appears to be saying it should have  such as obtaining bank statements  I 
dont think this would have made a difference. 
I say this because looking at the information Mr B has provided there isnt anything in it 
which contradicts the information obtained at the time or more crucially which demonstrates 
the loan payments were demonstrably unaffordable. Id add that its only fair and reasonable 
for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given 
the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable 
and proportionate checks would have extended into the level of checks Mr B is suggesting  
and even then we havent been provided with anything which demonstrates the loan was 
obviously unaffordable at the time either. 
As this is the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr B - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. And, in any event, I dont think that doing 
more would have prevented it from lending either.
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mr B unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr B. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman