DRN-2465870
The complaint
Mr P complains AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant) acted irresponsibly when granting a loan 
facility to him.
What happened
Mr P took out a loan in March 2019 with Avant. Mr P says that at that time he was 
experiencing financial difficulties. He says Avant shouldnt have lent him the money as it 
would be clear to them, he had various other forms of credit outstanding and the loan was 
unaffordable. Mr P wants Avant to refund all interest charged on the loan along with a 
statutory interest payment of 8% and remove the loan from his credit file. He wishes Avant to 
set up an affordable payment plan. 
Avant says they carried out the relevant checks when granting the loan, including income 
and expenditure profile, credit reference checks and confirmed his income by checking with 
bank statements. Avant say they have taken reasonable measures when granting the loan, 
but if Mr P is experiencing financial problems, they are willing to discuss a payment plan with 
him.
Mr P wasnt happy with Avants response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available and upheld Mr Ps complaint. The 
investigator felt Avant could have done more detailed checks when granting the loan, given 
a loan for refinancing purposes had been taken by Mr P a few months earlier. The 
investigator says Avant should refund interest and amend the credit file as Mr P requested in 
his complaint. 
Avant werent happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said : 
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I was sorry to hear Mr P was experiencing financial difficulties and this must have been a 
difficult time for him. When looking at complaints, such as this, I have considered it based on 
its individual merits, and in this instance, I have looked at whether Avant carried out 
sufficient and proportionate checks before they granted the loan to Mr P.
What happened here is Mr P applied to Avant for a loan to refinance/consolidate other 
borrowings.  Mr P says that he was already borrowing elsewhere and was struggling 
financially, and this should have been clear to Avant. 
I have considered the point Mr P makes here as it is central to his complaint. I can see from 
the information provided to me that Avant carried out a series of checks, these included 
recent bank statements, credit reference searches and an income and expenditure profile 
provided by Mr P.  
From looking at these documents I cant see they show any recent adverse credit 
information and the income and expenditure profile completed by Mr P does indicate there 
was capacity to meet the new loan commitments. Its worth mentioning that the purpose of 
the loan granted to Mr P, wasnt intended to create additional borrowing. I say this because 
the loan was provided on the basis it would be used to clear other outstanding borrowing 
and from what I have seen, if the loan had been used for that purpose, Mr P could have 
reduced his monthly expenditure. The investigator felt that Avant should have been aware of 
a hire purchase agreement, other credit card debts, and a loan taken out 5 months earlier, 
and this signalled Mr P hadnt got on top of his finances. 
While I understand this point, the fact that Mr P had borrowing outstanding elsewhere and 
had taken out recent finance wouldnt in itself be a reason for Avant or any bank not to 
provide further finance - this would depend on various other considerations  including the 
nature of the loan being applied for.
From what I have seen, Avant took the existing borrowings into account when considering 
the affordability of the new loan and it met their lending criteria. I have also looked at what 
might be considered reasonable and proportionate checks being carried out by lenders, like 
Avant. While there are no set rules about what checks a lender must do or how they gather 
information about the consumers we would expect the business to obtain enough 
information about the consumer through their checks before making a lending decision. 
From the information provided to this service, I can see that a credit assessment was 
undertaken by Avant including credit reference searches, bank statements to confirm Mr Ps 
income along with an income and expenditure profile provided by Mr P in his loan 
application. Its not my role to tell Avant or any bank, what they must consider when 
approving a loan other than the checks are reasonable and proportionate and I am satisfied 
that is what happened here. 
Its also worth mentioning that at no point leading up to the loan being approved did Mr P 
advise Avant that he was going through any financial difficulties and by his own admission, 
says he understated his expenses and completed the loan application hastily. This is 
important, as Mr P by not accurately advising Avant of his true outgoings, may have 
impacted their credit assessment and their decision to lend or not. All banks are reliant on 
consumers, like Mr P to provide accurate information when completing applications for 
borrowing. Without this, an accurate assessment of affordability becomes difficult and for 
lenders like Avant when trying to establish a full and comprehensive view of affordability. 
Afterall, it was Mr Ps responsibility to provide Avant with a realistic account of his outgoings 
as this may have resulted in a different outcome by Avant. I can see that from the loan 
statements provided to this service from Avant, there was no evidence to suggest Mr P was 
experiencing financial difficulties after the loan was drawn, until his complaint  to Avant some 
six months later.
It follows, on balance, I am satisfied Avant took reasonable and proportionate checks based 
on the information they had available to them for the amount, purpose and term of the loan 
granted to Mr P. I am also satisfied the loan granted to Mr P was not to add further debt but 
to reduce existing borrowings and as such, reduce Mr Ps monthly outgoings.  It follows, I 
cant see that Avant acted irresponsibly when granting the loan to Mr P, for the reasons 
stated before. 
I am pleased to see that Avant have suggested to Mr P,  if he is experiencing financial 
problems, he contacts them to discuss a suitable payment plan for the loan and I would urge Mr P to contact Avant to discuss this. 
While Mr P will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Avant here. 
I gave Mr P and Avant until 26 December 2020 to accept or reject my provisional decision. I 
have heard nothing further from Avant within the timescales given to them, but Mr P has 
responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been passed back to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P is unhappy with my provisional decision and argues he didnt feel I had fully considered 
the  status of his credit file at the time Avant provided the loan to him. Mr P also suggests 
another company had accepted they should have done more when lending to him at around 
the same time.
I have considered what Mr P says here regarding his credit file and the fact he had other 
borrowing at the time of the loan granted by Avant. As I said in my provisional decision, on 
balance, I had seen his credit file which I am satisfied didnt clearly evidence Mr P was under 
financial pressure and this was further supported by other information such as bank 
statements and an income and expenditure profile completed by Mr P at the time of the 
application. As I mentioned in my provisional decision the fact other borrowing was evident 
at the time of the loan application isnt sufficient reason in itself for any lender to decline 
further borrowing and on balance, I felt Avant had taken reasonable and proportionate 
checks in this case. 
As far as Mr Ps comment that another company had agreed a loan he had taken out, prior 
to the loan provided to him by Avant,  was deemed irresponsible, is a separate matter and 
not something I can comment on. As I pointed out in my provisional decision, all cases are 
looked at on their individual merits and this is what happened here. Having considered the 
points raised by Mr P and the responses I have given above, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision and so my final decision remains the same. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman