DRN-3158292
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC has unfairly declined their application to 
extend the term of their mortgage.
What happened
In 2006, Mr and Mrs L took out an interest only mortgage with Barclays. In 2008, they took a 
further advance, also on an interest only basis. The terms ended in November 2020 and 
January 2021 respectively.
Before the term ended, Mr and Mrs L made a number of requests to extend the term of the 
mortgage. But Barclays declined those requests. It did agree to put any recovery action on 
hold for 12 months from the end of term. Mr and Mrs L consider that Barclays hasnt treated 
them fairly.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree. They made a number of points, including:
A developer has a planning option on land that they own.
Barclays ignored its own internal mortgage switch procedure  the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) rules allow them to make such an application. Barclays had ignored 
the FCAs rules (particularly the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
sourcebook (MCOB) 11.9), the EU directive and case precedents.
Barclays panel rejected a five-year extension on the basis of affordability. But they had 
shown that the mortgage was affordable over its term. And they did not apply for a five-
year term extension  they wanted an internal mortgage switch that could run for five 
years or more.
The investigator had not commented on Barclays poor service, which it had accepted.
Their mental and physical health had been ignored.
An equity release mortgage would be considerably more costly.
Interest only mortgages were mis-sold and the terms were unfair and unreasonable. 
Barclays should compromise because the mortgage was mis-sold. And not in the best 
interest of customers.
The fact that regulations in relation to interest only mortgages are much stricter now 
supports that interest only mortgages were not good products.
Barclays didnt recommend that they should take out any type of repayment vehicle.
They could have afforded a repayment mortgage at the outset.
It is in their best interests to extend the term of the mortgage.
While there might be sufficient equity in the property to downsize, sufficient weight hasnt 
been given to the medical evidence and the impact selling their home would have on 
them.
Mrs Ls health could improve in five years. But we do know medical advice is that now is 
not a good time for her to move.
The additional interest charged over the extended term was not an issue.
There was no detriment to Barclays in extending the term of the mortgage.
The pension drawdown wasnt a viable option to repay the mortgage as it would only 
repay a proportion of the mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the importance of this matter to Mr and Mrs L. Ive looked very carefully at what 
they have told us and what has happened. Im required to take the relevant law, rules and 
regulations (amongst other things) into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable in the 
individual circumstances of this complaint. Ill deal first with the points Mr and Mrs L have 
made about the relevant rules and law.
MCOB 11.9
I can see why Mr and Mrs L think that MCOB 11.9 will help them. But Im afraid that this rule 
was not intended to be applied in their circumstances. The FCAs policy statement 
(PS19/27) set out that the purpose of this rule was to assist borrowers who cant switch to a 
more affordable mortgage despite being up to date with their mortgage payments. It said:
mortgage lenders can choose to carry out a modified affordability assessment (modified 
assessment) where the consumer:  has a current mortgage  is up-to-date with their 
mortgage payments  does not want to borrow more, other than to finance any relevant 
product fee or arrangement fee for that mortgage  is looking to switch to a new mortgage 
deal on their current property
Mr and Mrs L were not looking to switch mortgage products. Their primary aim was to extend 
the term of the mortgage.
Under MCOB 11.9 lenders can waive certain affordability and interest only checks for 
customers switching to a more affordable mortgage product if they wish. But I cant see that 
they say that lenders must apply those rules  they have the discretion not to. And the policy 
statement is clear that lenders can choose which rules not to apply. So for example, even if 
Barclays waived affordability checks it would still be entitled to apply its usual interest only 
checks. That would not help Mr and Mrs L, as they have no repayment vehicle.
Bearing in mind what Mr and Mrs L were looking to achieve, I dont consider that Barclays 
was obliged to apply MCOB 11.9  and I dont consider it was relevant or particularly helpful 
to their circumstances in any case. T
The relevant part of MCOB is 11.7. I will explain what that means for Mr and Mrs L below.EU law
The EUs mortgage credit directive was implemented into UK law in a number of ways, but 
largely through changes by the FCA to MCOB, where the standards set by the directive did 
not already align. I will deal with the relevant parts of MCOB later.
Other cases
I am aware of cases where we have told Barclays that it should extend the term of the 
mortgage. But each case depends very much on the facts and circumstances of that case. 
Term extension
I note the points that Mr and Mrs L have made about the sale of the mortgage. But that is not 
the complaint they made to Barclays or referred to us. So I wont be dealing with that here. I 
would add that the sales paperwork states that Barclays had not given Mr and Mrs L 
mortgage advice and it was their decision to accept the mortgage offers.
When Mr and Mrs L took out the mortgage they entered into a contract with Barclays and 
they agreed to be bound by the terms of that contract. That included that they would repay 
the capital balances of the mortgage and further advance at the end of term. By not doing so 
they are in breach of contract and Barclays would be entitled to act to take possession of the 
property. The FCAs guidance supports that borrowers are responsible for repaying their 
loans.
In saying that, Barclays should understand that borrowers circumstances can change. As Mr 
and Mrs L have recognised, under the FCAs high level principles, it has an obligation to 
treat borrowers fairly and give due regard to their interests. I have also taken into account 
the FCAs guidance Dealing fairly with interest only mortgage borrowers who risk being 
unable to repay their loan.
The relevant part of MCOB is 11.7. That is for customers who had an existing mortgage 
taken out before April 2014, who wanted to vary their mortgage in some way and were not 
looking to increase their borrowing but would not qualify for a mortgage under the more 
stringent rules in place since April 2014. The rules allowed lenders to waive the rules relating 
to affordability and interest only mortgages providing the change to the mortgage was in the 
borrowers best interests.
When we are looking at what is in Mr and Mrs Ls best interests, it is not simply what they 
want. Rather it is an objective look at all of their circumstances to decide whether extending 
the term of the mortgage is the right thing for them overall.
Mr and Mrs L dont have a repayment vehicle. They point out that was acceptable to 
Barclays in the first place. And theyve outlined a number of different options including the 
existing equity in their house, the value of land where a developer has a planning option, Mr 
Ls pension and their son acting as a guarantor. 
I take Mr and Mrs Ls point that there is sufficient equity in their home to give them options. 
But it appears that they told Barclays that there had been a downturn in their local property 
market that made downsizing difficult. The value of their home might go up or down in the 
future. It is difficult to say if the overall situation will improve or not. I dont think it is a sound 
basis on which to extend the term of the mortgage.I accept that Mr and Mrs L own land where the value might increase in the future. But that is 
not guaranteed. There are many issues that can stall or prevent such a development going 
ahead. 
Mr and Mrs L have already accepted that their pension would not be enough to repay the 
mortgage in full. And I dont see how adding a guarantor would mean that Mr and Mrs L 
would be able to repay the mortgage at the end of any revised term. 
I can see that Barclays considered both Mr and Mrs Ls health in making its decision. I dont 
consider that the reasons it gave in respect of that were unreasonable. 
Barclays also said that for several years the mortgage was paid by the Department for Work 
and Pensions and that Mr and Mrs Ls income is made up entirely of benefits. I dont 
consider the fact that they have paid the mortgage over its term is relevant to future 
affordability. Even if they could afford the interest payments as things stand, that is with very 
low interest rates over recent years. And that does not address how the capital will be 
repaid.
Overall, and after very careful consideration, I think the outcome reached by Barclays was 
fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint. It has demonstrated 
that it has not merely followed its policy, but it has given due consideration to what 
objectively is in Mr and Mrs Ls best interests. I consider the conclusions it reached were fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
I know that Mr and Mrs L will be very disappointed. They should maintain a dialogue with 
Barclays. And Barclays has an ongoing obligation to treat them fairly. But as things stand, I 
think Barclays has treated them fairly.
In regard to the poor service provided by Barclays, I can see it has already offered £100 for 
the stress and uncertainty it caused. Mr and Mrs L should contact Barclays directly if on 
reflection they wish to accept that offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman