DRN-3591708
The complaint
Mr T complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T has a home insurance policy underwritten by RSA, which covers his home and its 
contents, amongst other things.
He made a claim in January 2021 after a storm caused damage to the property. Following 
that claim, which was initially declined by RSA, our service investigated a complaint from 
Mr T. 
We found  and both Mr T and RSA agreed  that RSA should cover the internal damage to 
Mr Ts home, as accidental damage. But that they were justified in declining to pay for 
external repairs.
RSA appointed loss adjustors to assess the internal damage. They proposed what are 
essentially redecoration works, at a cost of just over £600. 
Mr T wasnt happy with that and made a complaint to RSA. He thinks the plaster and/or 
plasterboard in some areas of his bedroom and lounge needs to be replaced.
RSA didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. Their loss adjustors say the plaster in the relevant areas 
isnt blown, as Mr T suggests, and the specified redecoration works will suffice.
Mr T wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. He thinks RSA should 
pay for repairs to the plaster. 
He also says RSA have previously agreed the plaster was blown. He says they refused to 
engage with him or compromise on the outcome of his claim. He says their agents 
threatened legal action against him. And he says they mishandled his complaint  asking 
him to provide an employee reference number at one point.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think RSA had done anything wrong. 
Mr T disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fundamentally, this complaint is about the fact that RSA wont pay to strip and replace the 
plaster in the relevant areas. Ill turn to that central question below, but Id like first to clear up 
one or two of the peripheral issues Mr T has raised.
First, complaints handling is not a regulated financial activity, according to the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys dispute resolution (or DISP) rules, which govern the way our service 
operates.
So, its not for me in this decision to consider the way RSA handled Mr Ts complaint. I can 
see they did send him some confusing correspondence, although its difficult to see what 
real detriment Mr T suffered as a result. But, as I say, thats not something our service can 
look into in any case.
I can see RSA and/or their agents also gave Mr T contact details for their lawyers at one 
point at least. That appears to have been in response to Mr T saying that he was going to 
take the matter to court. In which case, RSA simply gave him the correct contact details for 
him to give notice of impending legal proceedings. I have no evidence to suggest any wrong-
doing on the part of RSA or their agents in this respect.
When I consider the main issue at stake here  whether the plaster needs stripping and 
replacing  I have to take into account the expert evidence available.
When Mr T first reported his claim, RSA sent a surveyor to assess the damage. They took 
photographs inside and outside the property. They noted water damage to some areas 
inside the house. They say there was no evidence at the time to suggest the plaster was 
blown.
When they were later sent Mr Ts own photographs and carried out a desk assessment, they 
said they could see several damp patches on the walls, which would dry out in time 
assuming the external repairs had been effectively carried out. They also said there was a 
thermal or drying crack in the plaster, which could be filled and sanded as part of the 
redecoration work theyd specified.
And when they were later presented with further evidence provided by Mr T, they noted that 
the plaster was so thin on the walls in question that in their opinion, if it had blown, it would 
certainly have fallen off the walls.
So, RSAs appointed surveyors  who are experts in the field  say that theres no evidence 
the plaster is blown and needs to be replaced.
Mr T has provided a quotation from a builder, which refers to removing blown plaster from 
the chimney breast in the lounge and damaged plasterboard from the bedroom.
Whilst that quotation certainly refers to blown plaster, it is simply an estimate for work to be 
carried out. It isnt diagnostic about the damage  it doesnt offer a view about how it might 
have occurred. And there is no justification or explanation provided for the assertion that the 
plaster is blown. It is possible that builder has simply quoted for the work Mr T said he 
wanted carried out.
It's not for me to settle Mr Ts claim or to act as a loss adjustor in assessing the damage and 
scoping the necessary repair works. The question for me is whether RSA have acted fairly 
and reasonably in the way theyve handled the claim.
Given the evidence currently available, including the surveyors report and the builders 
quotation, I cant say with any justification that RSA have acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr T in the way theyve dealt with his claim. 
On balance, its not unreasonable for them to conclude at present that the plaster is likely not 
blown  or wasnt blown immediately after the storm damage - and could be repaired and 
redecorated in the way the surveyor suggests.RSA said the repairs would cost just over £600. Mr T says it would be significantly more than 
that, given that the plaster needs replacing, and closer to £2,500. 
But he said he was happy to accept £1,500 as a compromise cash settlement - and part of 
his complaint was that RSA were unreasonably refusing to meet him halfway and pay the 
£1,500 (plus £100 compensation hed suggested).
Given what Ive concluded about the evidence available and about RSAs decision to 
maintain that the repairs specified by their surveyor are sufficient, Im not going to ask them 
to pay significantly more than their surveyors estimate in order to meet Mr T halfway to what 
he thinks is a reasonable price for the repairs he thinks are necessary.
In summary, Im satisfied that the way RSA proposed to settle the claim is fair and 
reasonable in light of the evidence currently available.
Mr T says that at one point at least, RSA and/or their agents agreed the plaster was blown. 
There is some slightly confusing language used in at least one RSA communication  they 
say that if the blown plaster was caused by the storm, it should be covered. 
But looking at that communication in the round, I dont think its an admission that the plaster 
is in fact blown  it simply begins with the assumption that Mr Ts assessment is correct and 
goes on to say that if so, then replacement of the plaster should be covered. 
Even if it were to be interpreted as agreement, at the relevant time, that the plaster was 
blown, RSA would be entitled to keep that under review as more evidence came to light. 
At various points over the course of our investigation, Mr T has suggested hed be 
appointing loss assessors to inspect the damage to his property. 
If he now does so and they provide evidence to suggest that plaster is in fact blown  and 
that was as a result of the water ingress in January 2021  then Id expect RSA to take that 
further evidence into account and re-consider Mr Ts claim.
As things stand though, the weight of expert evidence in this case suggests that the repairs 
currently proposed by RSA are appropriate and sufficient to put right the damage to Mr Ts 
property.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman