DRN-3068509
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H have complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) settled a claim 
under their home contents policy.
Mr H and Mrs H are represented but, for ease, I will only refer to Mr H and Mrs H as they are 
the policyholders.
  
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H made a claim for some stolen bracelets. Aviva agreed to settle the claim. It 
valued one bracelet at £2,500 and the other at £1,200. Aviva capped the amount payable for 
the first bracelet at £2,000 as this was the single item limit under the policy terms. However, 
it offered Mr H and Mrs H a voucher for £3,700 because it decided that due to the discounts 
it could achieve on vouchers that it could pay the full settlement amount in that way.
When Mrs H went to spend the vouchers, she couldnt find like for like items for the bracelets 
that were stolen, so she spent the vouchers on some earrings. Mrs H later contacted Aviva 
to complain that she hadnt been paid the full value of the claim.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had correctly valued the jewellery and Mrs H had 
chosen a voucher, which had been spent. It said it didnt have any record of objections being 
raised before the vouchers were spent.
When Mr H and Mrs H complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He said he thought it was more likely than not that Aviva had offered a cash 
settlement before Mr H and Mrs H spent the vouchers and that Aviva couldnt now offer a 
cash settlement without making a large loss on the earrings as, for hygiene reasons, it was 
unlikely the shop would take them back.
As Mr H and Mrs H didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 25 August 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold this complaint. I said:
Aviva, through its jewellery service, decided the claim could either be settled as a cash 
settlement of £3,200 or with vouchers for £3,700. The lower amount for the cash settlement 
was because of the valuables single article limit in the policy of £2,000. So, it capped the 
settlement figure for one of the items at that amount, despite it being valued at £2,500. I 
think that was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, so it was reasonable to 
calculate the cash settlement in this way. I also think Aviva acted reasonably by offering the 
full amount for the jewellery in vouchers because it was able to give Mr H and Mrs H the 
benefit of the discount it could achieve on vouchers.
However, the issue is whether Aviva actually made Mr H and Mrs H aware of the cash 
settlement option. Aviva used a jewellery service to value and settle the claim for the 
jewellery. It was the jewellery service that was in contact with Mrs H about how the claim 
would be settled.
When Mrs H complained to Aviva a few months later, someone from Aviva then phoned her 
to discuss the complaint. During the first phone call Aviva said it was standard practice to 
offer a cash settlement, but she would speak to the jewellery service to find out what had 
happened. The next day the same person from Aviva phoned Mrs H and, on several 
occasions, said that a cash settlement hadnt been offered and apologised for this. The 
person at Aviva also said there may have been other issues with the person at the jewellery 
service who had dealt with Mrs Hs claim and he had since left the company.
Ive also seen an email from the jewellery service to Aviva explaining what had happened, 
which said As a company, we were unable to supply these items and the settlement options 
provided to the customer included a cash settlement. However, I havent seen anything to 
show that the jewellery service told Mrs H this and the jewellery service doesnt have any of 
the phone calls between it and Mrs H. The written records Ive seen show that a cash 
settlement was an option, but not what Mrs H was told. So, Im more persuaded by the 
phone call between Aviva and Mrs H in which Mrs H was clearly told that a cash settlement 
hadnt been offered and the suggestion that there was potentially an issue with the person 
who discussed the settlement options with Mrs H.
I also havent seen anything to suggest that after Mrs H was sent the vouchers and before 
she spent them that the jewellery service or Aviva told Mrs H about the possibility of a cash 
settlement. Mrs Hs representative told this service:
Sometime after 26th March 2018 my client had a conversation with a female at Aviva who 
had said that a cash alternative would have been available.
Im aware the year given in that email was incorrect, as it should have referred to 2019. Mrs 
H also later clarified that the conversation she was referring to was the one that took place 
several months later in response to her complaint. Ive already described that above. But on 
this point specifically, I didnt hear anything that suggested to me that Mrs H was aware that 
a cash settlement was an option before she was informed of this in those phone calls. So, 
based on what Ive seen, I dont think Mrs H was offered a cash settlement or made aware 
that she could have accepted a cash settlement before she spent the vouchers, even though 
she should have been.
So, Ive thought about what should happen as a result. Im aware that Mrs H has already 
spent the vouchers on earrings. Im also aware that when Aviva spoke to Mrs H about her 
complaint that the person queried why Mrs H hadnt spoken to Aviva at the time if she was 
unhappy. However, Im mindful that the onus was on Aviva to properly explain the settlement 
options and, from what Ive seen, Mrs H had no reason to think these hadnt fully been 
explained to her. 
Ive also read some emails between Mrs H and the jewellery service. In one of those emails, 
Mrs H queried whether she could use the vouchers anywhere other than the three named 
stores. Despite chasing, she didnt receive a reply. When Mrs H then went to one of the 
named jewellery shops to spend the vouchers, the jeweller phoned Avivas jewellery service 
on Mrs Hs behalf to see if there were other voucher options because she didnt like the 
items she could buy with the current voucher. The jewellery service advised that a different 
type of voucher could be issued, but for a lower value. Mrs H decided to keep the vouchers 
she currently had. 
I think this indicated Mrs H had concerns at the time about the vouchers and what she was 
able to buy with them. Mrs H did also ask the jewellery service that was acting on Avivas 
behalf whether there were alternative options. However, given the jewellery service didnt tell Mrs H that a cash settlement was an option, I cant see why she would necessarily think this 
was something she could specifically ask for. 
Based on everything Ive seen in this case, I also think Mrs H would have opted for the cash 
settlement had she known this was available. Im also aware that Mrs H explained to Aviva 
that she felt pressured to spend the vouchers because they had a six-month expiry date. So, 
from what I can see, Mrs H did try and explore other options, but only asked questions 
around the vouchers, which was because that was all she thought she was entitled to. She 
then spent the vouchers because if she didnt spend them she thought she would end up 
with nothing. In my view, this was because of the information Avivas jewellery service 
provided to Mrs H and that it didnt properly explain the options available.
As a result, I currently intend to say Aviva should provide Mr H and Mrs H with a cash 
settlement of £3,200 to settle the claim. It should also pay interest on that amount, as Mr H 
and Mrs H should have had use of that money but werent given that opportunity. I assume 
that Aviva will need to take back the earrings before paying the cash settlement. I 
understand that Mrs H paid about £300 in cash on top of the voucher amount in order to pay 
for the earrings. Aviva will therefore also have to refund any cash amount Mrs H paid 
towards the earrings and pay interest on that amount, subject to being provided with proof of 
the exact amount and the date on which it was paid. Im aware that for hygiene reasons, 
there might be an issue with earrings being returned but, in my view, that is for Aviva and the 
jewellery service to deal with and not something that concerns Mr H and Mrs H.
Ive also thought about compensation. I currently intend to say that Aviva should pay £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr H and Mrs H because the 
settlement options werent properly explained and Mrs H felt obliged to buy items that she 
didnt particularly want in order to make use of the vouchers.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 24 September 2021.
Mr H and Mrs H accepted the decision.
Aviva confirmed it had received my provisional decision, but didnt provide any further 
comments.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. In the circumstances, I remain of the view that this is the most 
appropriate way to resolve this complaint.
  
Putting things right
Aviva must pay a cash settlement of £3,200 to settle the claim and pay interest on this 
amount. When Mr H and Mrs H return the earrings, Aviva must refund any cash amount they 
paid towards their purchase and pay interest on that amount. Aviva must also may Mr H and 
Mrs H £200 compensation. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Pay a cash settlement of £3,200 in order to settle the claim.
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date of the claim to the date of 
settlement.
On receipt of the earrings, refund to Mr H and Mrs H the amount paid in cash towards 
their purchase.
Pay 8% simple interest on the cash amount paid towards the cost of the earrings from 
the date on which that payment was made to the date on which it is refunded.
Pay £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman