DRN-3780414
The complaint
Mr P complains that he has lost out financially due to failings by The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited (Prudential). In particular, he says it failed to promptly process the 
instruction it received from his Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) to fully crystallise the 
funds in his pension pot and pay the maximum tax-free cash available, despite having acted 
on similar instructions from other clients on the day the instruction was given.
As a result of Prudentials poor service, he says that the tax-free cash (TFC) lump sum he 
requested on 13 March 2020, was affected by a Unit Price Adjustment (UPA) applied on 17 
March 2020.
To resolve matters Mr P wants Prudential to pay him the difference between the TFC lump 
sum he received, and the amount he would have received if his instruction had been 
processed on the day it was submitted, before Prudential applied a UPA.
Mr P is represented in this matter by his IFA.
What happened
On 13 March 2020, Mr Ps IFA submitted a request to Prudential to fully crystalise the funds 
in his pension pot and take the maximum TFC available. At the time of the request the value 
of Mr Ps pension pot was £915,504.77. Based on this valuation the TFC lump sum he 
expected to receive was £228,876.19.
Shortly after making this request, Mr Ps IFA emailed Prudential to ask whether it was 
possible for the TFC to be taken from Mr Ps PruFund holding, and to avoid cashing in any of 
his Vanguard holding.
Prudential replied that day to say that it was, Waiting on the team to ensure the Vanguard 
holding is left. On 16 March 2020, having received updates from Prudential about 
withdrawal requests made on behalf of other clients, Mr Ps IFA chased Prudential about his 
withdrawal request.
Prudential replied shortly afterwards. It said:
No update on [Mr Ps request] as of yet. I have asked my manager to get involved on this 
one. Will keep you updated.
The following day, Prudential emailed Mr Ps IFA again and said:
I am just waiting on a manager with [Mr Ps request]
In mid-March 2020, equity markets were falling significantly. In response Prudential applied 
a UPA of -11.7% on 17 March 2020 to its PruFund. It is not in dispute that Prudential was 
entitled to apply a UPA.
On 18 March 2020 Prudential contacted Mr Ps IFA again. It said:
The money hasn't went for [Mr P] due to the product and ongoing adviser fees not clearing 
for [Mr P].
I am stating the facts, it was keyed in plenty of time and this should have been actioned, this 
is not your fault nor is it the client's fault.
I am still trying to get them to proceed and do what they were meant to do, many managers 
are involved. I will keep on at it, if a complaint has to be logged it will be as this is not you or 
your client's fault.
I am not backing down on this one so sorry for the limited updates cause I am not willing to 
give up just yet. I am like a dog with a bone. Honestly I will sort this one way.(sic)
Prudential later explained that, as a regular product charge was due to be deducted from 
Mr Ps account on the same day the TFC was requested, its systems did not allow the 
request to be processed immediately via its straight through processing system.
The records available show that on 17 March 2020, an internal email was sent by Prudential 
to say that the request Mr Ps IFA had submitted would need to be cancelled and re- 
submitted if the TFC was to be taken from a specific fund. However, it appears this 
instruction was not passed on to Mr Ps IFA and the request was not cancelled and re- 
submitted.
On 20 March 2020, Prudential emailed Mr Ps IFA to say:
I am sorry but the team never got this processed and tax free cash out without the UPA, 
£203,004 08 will be paid to client, I am sorry this has dropped significantly. They could not 
authorise the payment whilst the charges were still being processed. I have tried everything I 
can to get this out without the drop but can't. I am so sorry. I have logged a complaint 
detailing everything that has happened ensuring the client will be fully compensated. I 
cannot tell you how gutted I am over this case.
Mr P received the lower TFC lump sum on 26 March 2020.
Having considered the complaint Prudential said it didnt think it had treated Mr P unfairly. It 
said that his request to take a TFC lump sum could not be processed as there was a 
pending product charge due to be taken on 13 March 2020, meaning the TFC could not be 
authorised until this was paid.
It said its internal processes involved carrying out a series of automated checks when a TFC 
lump sum was requested. It said Mr Ps request had not passed the checks as a product 
charge was due to be taken on the same day as the request. It said this meant his request 
could not be processed automatically. As his request could not be processed automatically it 
said it had been passed to an account specialist to be actioned.
It also said that when Mr Ps IFA asked for the TFC to be taken from his PruFund, and not 
his Vanguard fund, the request was sent to its servicing team on 16 March 2020, who replied 
the next day (17 March 2020) to say that the original request would need to be cancelled 
and then a new request be re-submitted selecting the PruFund only.
It noted that the request was not cancelled and re-submitted and the TFC, including some of 
Mr Ps Vanguard holdings was authorised on 20 March 2020.
As a UPA of -11.7% was applied by Prudential on 17 March 2020, the TFC lump sum Mr P 
received was reduced accordingly. Prudential said it did not think it had acted incorrectly and 
it noted that its terms and conditions set out that a UPA can be applied at any time.
It said it accepted that it was unfortunate that Mr Ps TFC had been reduced as it was 
authorised after the UPA had been applied. But it said the lump sum had been paid nine 
working days from the date of the request being keyed and it did not believe it had delayed 
the payment in any way.Mr P was not satisfied with Prudentials response and his representative referred the matter 
to this service.
Our investigator said she didnt think Prudential had acted incorrectly in this matter. She 
said, in summary, that she felt Prudential had dealt with the request in a timely manner and 
she didnt think it needed to compensate Mr P for the reduction in the tax-free cash lump 
sum he received as a result of the UPA it had applied.
She noted that Mr Ps representative had said that it felt the request should have been 
processed on 13 March 2020, or 16 March 2020 at the latest. But she said that Prudential 
worked to an internal service standard of ten days to process crystallisation and TFC 
requests and she noted that Mr Ps request had been completed within nine working days.
She also noted that Mr Ps IFA had referred to other clients requests, made at the same 
time as Mr Ps request  and these requests had been processed before the UPA was 
applied - but she said she didnt think this meant Mr Ps request should have been 
processed more quickly.
Mr P did not accept our investigators view and the complaint was passed to me to 
determine.
I issued my provisional decision on Mr Ps complaint on 3 October 2022. In it I explained that 
I had reached a different view to that of our investigator and my provisional decision was that 
Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. I explained why I had reached this decision as follows:
I carefully considered the points Prudential had raised and I also reviewed the terms and 
conditions it had provided.
I noted that Prudential had said that as a product charge was due to be deducted from 
Mr Ps account on 13 March 2020, the day the full crystallisation and TFC lump sum request 
was received, it wasnt able to process Mr Ps TFC request until the product charge had 
settled.
I said I didnt think Prudential had treated Mr P fairly in this matter. I noted it said that it 
couldnt process the TFC request and take a product charge at the same time. I said it 
appeared this was due to its own internal processes, rather than any regulatory or legal 
requirement.
In its response to this service Prudential referred to its terms and conditions, but I said I 
hadnt seen anything that set out it wouldnt act on requests to crystallise funds and release 
TFC, until a regular product charge had cleared.
In this instance I said I didnt think Prudentials processes adequately considered the 
requirement to treat Mr P fairly. In particular, I said I didnt think it was fair for it to have 
delayed processing Mr Ps TFC request simply because of the way its own internal 
processes had been set up.
In reaching this view I took into account that it appeared the product charge that caused 
Mr Ps TFC request to be delayed was for £190.35. I noted there was no possibility of 
insufficient funds being left in Mr Ps account to pay the fee, even after a 25% TFC lump sum 
had been deducted, as his pension pot was valued at over £915,500.
By failing to act on Mr Ps request, until nearly a week after the product charge had been 
taken, I said I thought Prudential had failed to treat Mr P fairly.I said I didnt think there was any legitimate reason for Prudential to fail to carry out Mr Ps 
request, other than its own internal processes didnt allow it to do so.
In reaching this view I said I was mindful that in March 2020 equity markets were falling 
rapidly. I thought Prudential ought reasonably to have known that Mr P would not want his 
TFC request to be delayed (as there was a risk that the smoothed price on Mr Ps PruFund 
holding might be reset due to market conditions).
Even if, for whatever reason, Prudential had been unable to over-ride its internal processes 
and allow the TFC request to be processed on 13 March 2020, I said I thought it should have 
made every effort to ensure that Mr Ps request was processed on the next working day, 16 
March 2020. I noted however, that its records showed that Mr Ps request was given a 
priority rating of medium and there appeared to have been no effort made to ensure that 
Mr Ps request was approved as soon as the product charge had been taken.
Despite the product charge having been taken on 13 March 2020, Mr Ps request for a TFC 
lump sum was not approved until 20 March 2020, a full week after the request had been 
made.
I also noted that Prudential had failed to respond to Mr Ps IFA when it asked, shortly after 
the initial request had been made on 13 March, if the TFC could be taken from Mr Ps 
PruFund holding only. As a result, the TFC lump sum was taken from both Mr Ps Vanguard 
and PruFund holdings.
I said I thought Prudentials failure to promptly notify Mr Ps IFA that it would need to cancel 
the request and re-submit it, selecting the appropriate fund, if the TFC was only to be taken 
from Mr Ps PruFund holding, was further poor service.
I noted that if Prudential had responded to Mr Ps IFA promptly on this query, even if its 
processes prevented the request for TFC made on 13 March 2020 from being approved 
automatically, Mr Ps request could have been cancelled and re-submitted with the 
instruction to take the TFC from his PruFund holding early on 16 March 2020. Mr Ps request 
would then have passed the necessary checks for straight through processing, as the 
product fee had been taken on 13 March, and his request would have been approved before 
the UPA was applied.
Having very carefully considered this matter my provisional decision was that this complaint 
should be upheld. I said I thought Prudential had failed to treat Mr P fairly when it delayed 
actioning his request to take a TFC lump sum because a product fee fell due on the same 
day the request was made. And I said I thought it had also failed to treat Mr P fairly when it 
failed to respond to his IFA when it enquired if the full TFC lump sum requested could be 
taken from his PruFund holding.
Prudential did not respond to my provisional decision. Mr Ps representative responded to 
say that he was satisfied with the provisional decision and the redress I had set out. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr Ps representative has accepted my provisional decision and Prudential has not 
responded or provided any fresh information or evidence, I find no basis to depart from my 
earlier conclusions.I remain of the view that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
In order to put matters right Prudential should pay Mr P the difference between the value of 
the TFC lump sum payment it made, and the value of the TFC Mr P would have received if 
his request had been processed on 13 March 2020, and no UPA had been applied.
Prudential should also apply 8% simple interest per year to this payment to compensate 
Mr P for the loss of the use of this money.
In addition, Prudential should pay Mr P a further £300 for the worry and upset this matter has 
caused him.
If appropriate Prudential should also provide Mr P with a tax deduction certificate in respect 
of the interest.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In order to put matters right Prudential should pay 
the redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman