DRN-2195112
The complaint
Miss M has complained that when she borrowed extra money when porting her mortgage, 
Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) have set this up as an additional account, rather 
than by increasing her initial mortgage. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I dont intend to repeat 
everything here. But Ill give an overview of the complaint and whats happened so far, and 
then Ill give the reasons for my decision. 
Miss M applied for a mortgage with Nationwide in January 2020. She explains that during 
the application, she explained to the Nationwide mortgage advisor that she planned to move 
to a new house within the next few years, so she didnt want to be tied in to a mortgage deal 
for too long. So Nationwide recommended a two-year fixed rate mortgage deal, meaning 
Miss Ms mortgage payments would be fixed for the first two years of the mortgage. If 
Miss M wanted to repay her mortgage within the initial two-year period, shed need to pay an 
Early Repayment Charge (ERC). 
Miss M has also explained that during the appointment she discussed porting her 
mortgage, in case she wanted to move home within the two years of the fixed rate deal. She 
says that she didnt understand porting too much, but the mortgage advisor explained that if 
she ported her mortgage to a new property within the fixed rate period, she wouldnt need to 
pay the ERC, and a new account would be opened for her if her previous mortgage didnt 
cover the price of the new property and she needed to borrow more.
Miss Ms complaint is that Nationwide didnt make it clear that if she did port her mortgage 
and require additional borrowing, the additional borrowing would be opened as a separate 
account, running alongside her initial mortgage account. Miss M says that had this been 
made clear from the outset, she wouldnt have committed to the two-year fixed rate 
mortgage because its too confusing to have two mortgages running concurrently on the 
same property. 
Miss M applied for a new mortgage with her partner in June 2020, when she intended to port 
her previous mortgage, which is when this complaint came to light. 
Miss M complained about the advice Nationwide had given at the time it sold the initial 
mortgage. She said that Nationwide had mis-sold the initial mortgage, and because of this 
shed have to pay an ERC of over £2000 to exit the mortgage. Nationwide didnt uphold 
Miss Ms complaint. 
Our investigator considered Miss Ms complaint, but she didnt recommend that it should be 
upheld. Whilst she appreciated the frustration Miss M had faced, she felt a misinterpretation 
between Miss M and the mortgage advisor had caused the confusion here. But she didnt 
conclude that Nationwide had treated Miss M unfairly, so she didnt think anything needed to 
be put right. 
Miss M didnt agree with the investigator. So as the matter still hasnt been resolved, its 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss M explained in her initial submission to this service that the mortgage advisor told her 
that a new account would be opened if she needed to borrow more money when porting her 
previous mortgage. I appreciate Miss M took this to mean that the previous mortgage and 
the new borrowing would be combined into one new account, rather than that the new 
account would run alongside the old one. But I dont think Nationwide treated Miss M unfairly 
in the way it explained the way this would work. I know Miss M says she didnt understand 
porting, and she wouldnt have ported her previous mortgage had she known this was going 
to happen. But Im not persuaded thats the case. I think its more likely that Miss M wouldve 
chosen to do what worked for her and her partner financially when looking for their new 
mortgage  as opposed to focussing on the administrative setup of it  which ultimately 
doesnt affect how the mortgage is repaid or how much is owed.
I can see from the contact notes from when Miss M applied for her mortgage in 
January 2020 that she explained to the advisor it was important for her to keep her monthly 
repayments fixed. And she explained that she may look to buy a new house with her partner 
in the next few years. The notes go on to suggest that several fixed-rate deals were 
discussed, and Miss M wasnt keen on being fixed into a five-year deal. So I think the 
advisor acted in Miss Ms interest by recommending the two-year fixed rate deal that he did. 
Again, I understand that Miss M didnt fully understand the terms of what would happen if 
she wanted to port her mortgage deal in the future, but I wouldnt expect the advisor to re-
explain this if it wasnt apparent that Miss M didnt understand it. 
I can also see that the mortgage offer document, produced in February 2020, explained that 
a new account would be opened in the event of a porting application where further borrowing 
was required. I do accept that this doesnt explicitly define that this would be an additional 
account, rather than a replacement account. But I think its reasonable to expect that as 
Miss M has said she didnt understand porting too well, and as it was clearly important to 
her, that shed have paid attention to this section of the offer document and questioned 
anything she didnt understand. Im not aware that Miss M did this. And ultimately, although 
Nationwide recommended a particular mortgage to Miss M, it was her decision on whether to 
accept the recommendation and proceed with it based on the information she had. 
I understand that Miss M has explained her partner is from overseas and isnt familiar with 
mortgages, so having two mortgage accounts for one mortgage is too confusing for him. And 
I do understand this point. But at the time Miss M took the initial mortgage in January 2020, 
her partner wasnt part of the application process and it wasnt clear that Miss was going to 
port her mortgage, nor when she was going to do this, nor whether shed need to borrow 
more money in any case. So I cant expect Nationwide to have pre-empted this scenario and 
explained it further to Miss M. And ultimately Miss M chose to proceed with porting her 
mortgage to the new application with her partner in June 2020  although she didnt have to. 
So I cant hold Nationwide responsible for this, given that Miss M couldve avoided this by 
not porting her mortgage or taking additional borrowing when she did.
Im pleased that Miss M has been able to port her mortgage deal and borrow additional 
funds to buy a property with her partner, avoiding the need to pay an ERC on her previous 
property. And although this is set up as the mortgage account with a sub account, I dont think Miss M has been, or will be, financially disadvantaged because of this. And as the 
mortgage payment is most likely made monthly by direct debit, as is standard with mortgage 
payments, I think this is unlikely to inconvenience Miss M that much. 
Im mindful that Miss M will be disappointed with that Ive said, but for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont uphold her complaint about Nationwide Building Society. So I dont require 
Nationwide to do anything to put things right.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman