DRN-3451060
The complaint
Ms K complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) recorded a default on her credit file and 
sold her debt to a third party, despite a payment plan being agreed and being told not to 
worry about letters she received. 
What happened
Ms K held an Aqua credit card account. In March 2020, Ms K contacted Aqua as her 
household income had been adversely impacted by the effects of the global pandemic. So, 
Aqua agreed a payment holiday until June 2020.
When the payment holiday expired, Ms K was still struggling financially. So, she approached 
Aqua to see what additional support they could provide. Aqua requested details of Ms Ks 
income and expenditure to see what she could afford to pay. They agreed a fair treatment 
payment plan with payments of £1.00 per month for 12 months. 
Ms K says Aqua told her she would receive default letters, but she shouldnt be too 
concerned, and this was part of the normal process. In October 2020, Ms K received a 
default notice from Aqua. This was followed by a letter in January 2021 confirming that Aqua 
were registering the default with credit reference agencies.
Ms K says Aqua then sold her outstanding debt to a third-party company, but they didnt tell 
her they were doing this. The first she knew about it was when she received a letter from the 
third-party company.
Ms K complained to Aqua. She wasnt happy theyd recorded a default as she said she 
hadnt been told this would happen. She also didnt know her debt had been sold on.
Aqua responded to Ms Ks complaint in May 2021. They agreed that she hadnt received the 
level of service they would expect. But they didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They 
said theyd followed the correct process in registering a default, in view of the arrears on Ms 
Ks account. They also confirmed that a business decision had been made to sell the 
remaining debt to a third-party company. They believed they were entitled to do that.
Ms K wasnt happy with Aquas response to her complaint. So, she referred her case to this 
service to consider further.
Having investigated the circumstances of Ms Ks complaint, our adjudicator didnt think Aqua 
needed to do anything more. He thought Aqua were entitled to take the actions they did.
Ms K didnt agree with our adjudicators findings. She said shed made it clear to Aqua she 
wated to avoid a default being recorded on her credit file. She thought the fair treatment plan 
would avoid this. Ms K also didnt understand how Aqua had taken responsibility for their 
poor service. She thought they should pay her compensation.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Ms Ks complaint has been referred to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDays final response to Ms Ks complaint upheld that she hadnt received the expected 
level of service. As it was unclear what this related to, I asked NewDay to explain their 
finding. NewDay have since confirmed to me that it recognised they were unable to recover 
a call recording requested by Ms K. But they didnt feel an award was appropriate for this. As 
businesses arent required to record calls or retain recordings, Im unable to disagree with 
their findings here.
In March 2020, Aqua agreed to defer Ms Ks credit card repayments. The support they gave 
appears to meet the requirements set out in subsequent special guidance issued by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). But that guidance was limited in terms of how much 
support Aqua could provide. 
In situations where support under the FCAs special guidance has been exhausted or is not 
appropriate because financial difficulties are not considered temporary, Aqua would be 
expected to consider alternative forms of forbearance. The key rules and standards that 
apply are set down in the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) Section 7. These 
include:
Suspending, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges
Allowing arrears to be deferred where immediate payment could cause payments to 
be unsustainable or where the term would not be increased excessively
Accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow the 
consumer to recover from an unexpected reduction in income.
When Ms Ks payment freeze ended, NewDay reviewed her circumstances together with her 
income and expenditure. At this point, a substantial shortfall against her expenses was 
identified which wasnt likely to be resolved in the short term. Ms K confirmed she couldnt 
afford the contractual repayments. NewDays offer of a fair treatment plan appears sensible 
here. This would relieve payment pressure and ensure Ms Ks debt didnt rise further as a 
result of charges and interest. This appears to comply with the FCAs guidance under CONC 
7. 
But its important to understand that such a payment plan doesnt remove Ms Ks contractual 
repayment obligations. Where contractual repayments arent made, they accrue as arrears. 
While a recording of the call in August 2020 isnt available, NewDays file notes show that 
they told Ms K this. They read from a set script  a copy of which Ive seen. They said that 
due to being in arrears, it may impact Ms Ks credit file. Also, the account will continue to be 
overdue and they will send regulatory notices as required. 
Aqua also confirmed that in a letter to Ms K in August 2020. They said, your account will 
continue to be overdue and we will send you the notices we are required toWell also let 
credit reference agencies know if you have missed paymentsWe may also sell your 
account to a debt purchaser. So, I think the potential consequences of the plan agreed were 
clearly explained to Ms K here. 
Ms K says that NewDay told her not to worry about letters she received. I think this was 
because they were part of the process NewDay had already explained to Ms K and shed 
accepted as part of the fair treatment plan. The letters remained relevant albeit NewDay 
understandably believed Ms K was aware of why they were being sent.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issue guidance and principles for the reporting 
of arrears, arrangements and defaults (PRAAD) at credit reference agencies. It says that as 
a general guide, a default may be recorded when you are three months in arrears, and 
normally by the time you are six months in arrears. 
From the information Ive seen, it appears the arrears on Ms Ks account met this 
requirement. So, I dont think Aqua did anything wrong when they issued a default notice 
and recorded this on Ms Ks credit file. I also believe Aqua were entitled to sell Ms Ks outstanding debt on once the default had been issued and registered. Theyd said that in 
their letter to her.
I appreciate that Ms K has experienced significant financial difficulty which also impacted 
upon her general health. This wouldve been a very difficult time for her. But the support 
provided by Aqua does appear to have complied with the FCAs guidance. While I realise 
she may not agree, I cant reasonably conclude that NewDay have done anything wrong 
here. And, while I know she will be disappointed, Im unable to uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman