DRN-3958688
The complaint
Miss I complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) didnt follow her 
instructions to change her Direct Debit details which then led to her incurring bank charges. 
What happened
Miss I holds three policies with D&G with the premiums being paid monthly. On 2 July 2022, 
her Direct Debit was declined so she called D&G on 12 July to change her bank details for 
her Direct Debits from Bank 1 to Bank 2. Miss I says, on 18 July, the three Direct Debits 
were requested by D&G from Bank 1 which were declined and led to Miss I incurring a £25 
bank charge for each declined transaction  this totalled £75. Miss I says she contacted 
D&G and the call handler accepted they hadnt changed the bank details on their system. 
Miss I complained and D&G responded and explained theyd correctly changed Miss Is 
bank details. They said no payment was taken between 12 July and 18 July so the charges 
werent as a result of any request they made for payment. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss I. During our investigation, D&G explained they 
sent a letter to Miss I on 2 July and, because they have to allow 14 days for any 
amendments to be made, they attempted to collect payment 14 days after the letter was 
sent. Our investigator thought D&G had made an error here and recommended they pay 
Miss I £75 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Miss I agreed but D&G disagreed 
so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
System notes provided by D&G show a Direct Debit payment attempt was declined by    
Miss Is bank on 2 July. D&G then sent a letter to Miss I letting her know about this and 
confirming There is no need for you to take any action, as we will try to take the payment 
again within 10 working days from the date of this letter. It goes further to say If any of your 
details have changed, please let us know by using the contact details above. And, We 
need to know about any changes to yourbank 
So, Ive applied the information here to the timeline of events which have occurred. The 
payment request is declined on 2 July and a letter is sent letting Miss I know D&G will 
attempt to take payment again by 15 July. The next payment attempt is made on 18 July and 
Miss I has provided a screenshot from her online banking showing three payment requests 
being made by D&G which are debited from Miss Is account but then immediately credited 
back. The letter to Miss I does ask her to contact D&G to let them know about any changes 
to her bank. Theres no dispute that Miss I contacted D&G on 12 July to change her bank 
details. So, taking this all into account, I think Miss I was led to believe another payment 
attempt would be made by 15 July and, after she changes her bank details on 12 July, there 
shouldnt be any issue with D&G taking this payment from Miss Is account with Bank 2.   
D&G say the letter shows them that Miss I was made aware that the payments were already 
submitted for collection, and they were unable to amend a collection date if this was already 
on the payment run. I understand D&Gs point here and why a payment run, which is already 
in place, might not take account of any changes made after the payment run started. But, 
D&G havent provided any evidence this was clearly explained to Miss I. The letter doesnt 
explain this to Miss I and, in fact, explains to Miss I she needs to contact D&G if she wishes 
to change her bank details  which she does. I note D&G say the change in bank details 
didnt actually take effect until 21 July, and I can see from system notes theyve provided 
that, following the call on 12 July, their system was amended to reflect the new account 
details on 21 July. D&G say they have to allow 14 days for any amendments to be made, but 
again, I cant see this was explained to Miss I.    
I note D&G say they wouldve expected Miss I to have cancelled the Direct Debit with Bank 1 
and, because she failed to do so, this has resulted in the charge. I agree its generally 
recommended that a customer should cancel any Direct Debits with their bank when theyre 
no longer required but I dont believe this is ultimately responsible for the further failed 
payment. I cant see D&G have, at any point between 2 July to 18 July, explained to Miss I 
that the further payment attempt would be made to Bank 1. And in the absence of this key bit 
of information being brought to Miss Is attention, I think it was understandable that Miss I 
would believe the further collection attempt would be made to Bank 2 after she changed her 
details.   
I understand D&G say their records show they only attempted to collect one payment on 18 
July. Ive looked at their system notes and agree this shows an attempt to collect a sum of 
£6.98. However, D&G confirm Miss I holds three separate policies, and all three premiums 
were due on 18 July. D&G confirm each plan had an outstanding premium in the sum of 
£6.98, £8.18 and £9.86. So, Ive compared this to the screenshot provided by Miss I and this 
shows three separate failed collection attempts being made for the same three amounts. So, 
Im persuaded its more likely than not there were three separate payment requests made. 
D&G say Miss I has had failed Direct Debits previously so they would expect her to be aware 
of D&Gs processes when collecting Direct Debits. I agree D&Gs system notes show Miss I 
has had previous unpaid Direct Debits, but I havent been provided with any evidence that 
shows, during these previous occasions, Miss I changed her bank details between two 
attempted collections and D&G informed her about their payment run process and timeline. 
And that is what Im saying is the error here in relation to the further attempted collection.       
I can see D&G have asked for evidence of the bank charges incurred by Miss I. I note Miss I 
says she no longer holds an account with Bank 1 and isnt able to get this information. I dont 
believe its necessary, in the circumstances of this case, for Miss I to prove this. I say this 
because, I think its fair and reasonable for D&G to pay compensation for the upset, 
frustration and inconvenience caused to Miss I  and that is what the £75 represents. Miss I 
was understandably upset at finding out D&G had attempted to collect payment again from   
Bank 1 despite her instructions. 
Ive listened to Miss Is call to D&G on 18 July and its clear shes upset and frustrated when 
the call handler checks the details they have on their system and reads out the details for 
Bank 1. Miss I then asks to be transferred to the complaints department who explain that it 
doesnt appear the account details were changed correctly. Even at this point, D&G dont 
explain the likely reason for this is that it can take 14 days for any amendments to be made. 
There was also inconvenience caused to Miss I in having to call D&G on 18 July to discuss 
this.   Putting things right
Ive taken the view that D&G made an error in not informing Miss I about their process prior 
to attempting a further collection by Direct Debit. So, D&G should pay £75 compensation to 
Miss I for the upset, frustration and inconvenience caused.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Domestic & General Insurance Plc must pay 
£75 compensation to Miss I.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman