DRN-2817818
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Prodigy Finance LTD declined his application for a loan.
What happened
Mr M received a loan from Prodigy to study at a university in the United States. The classes 
started in summer 2020. However, the restrictions surrounding the emergence of the global 
Covid-19 pandemic meant Mr M wasnt able to get the visa needed to allow him to travel to 
the US to complete his studies. And while the university were initially happy for Mr M to 
begin the course remotely, they werent willing to allow the full year to be undertaken 
remotely, once it became clear that the continuing pandemic made such a possibility likely.
Mr M considered deferring the course until next year, but ultimately decided to withdraw from 
the program entirely and apply to other schools. Mr Ms loan from Prodigy had been due to 
be paid to the university in four instalments. After it was agreed that Mr M would leave the 
program, the university called Prodigy to cancel the loan contract and therefore the receipt of 
future planned instalments. The university also arranged to refund one of the received 
instalments back to Prodigy.
Mr M was then accepted to attend another US university and applied to Prodigy again for a 
loan to fund his studies. However, this second loan application was declined by Prodigy. Mr 
M wasnt happy about this and was concerned that the presence of the earlier loan, which 
was showing as outstanding at that time, might have been a factor in why his second loan 
application was rejected. Mr M was also unhappy that Prodigy wouldnt release the 
previously agreed loan amount to his new university. So, he made a complaint.
Prodigy looked at Mr Ms complaint, but they were satisfied that theyd assessed Mr Ms loan 
application fairly and that it hadnt met the criteria necessary for the application to be 
approved. Prodigy also noted that while it was possible for a loan amount to be reallocated 
to a different school, this was entirely at their discretion - which they did not give in this 
instance. Because of this, Prodigy didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Prodigys response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Prodigy had assessed Mr 
Ms second loan application fairly and therefore that Prodigy hadnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in choosing not to approve that second loan application. Our investigator also 
acknowledged that Prodigy did have the right to not give their discretion to reallocate Mr Ms 
first loan amount to a new university. So, our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its up to a business whether it will offer a loan to a customer, and if so, how much and on 
what terms. What this service would expect would be that any application that a customer 
makes is assessed fairly by that business so that the customer isnt disadvantaged in any 
way during the application process.
Prodigy say that they did that here, and with regard Mr Ms second loan application, Prodigy 
have confirmed that this application was assessed on its merits using the application criteria 
Prodigy had in place as a business at that time.
Im aware that Mr M doesnt feel that this was the case, and Mr M has made a reasoned 
argument as to why his financial position was better at the time of the second loan 
application  which was rejected  than it was at the first  which was successful.
But I havent seen anything in the information available to me that leads me to suspect that 
Mr Ms second loan application wasnt assessed fairly by Prodigy at the time it was 
submitted. And while it may be the case that Mr Ms financial position could be considered 
as being better at the time of the second loan application, its also the case that a business 
acceptance criteria arent static, such that it doesnt necessary follow that the acceptance of 
an early loan application should entail the similar acceptance of a later loan application. And 
its notable that Prodigy have confirmed that this is the case and have stated that theres no 
guarantee that Mr Ms first loan application would have been successful, if it were to be 
assessed under Prodigys more recent acceptance criteria.
Mr M has questioned whether there might be a systemic issue with regards Prodigys 
systems, whereby the presence of the earlier loan, showing as unsettled, has a detrimental 
effect on his later application which caused it to be rejected. However, Mr M has also 
confirmed to this service that he had friends from his first university who had also applied to 
Prodigy for loans to attend different schools and whose loan applications had been 
accepted. This would appear to rule out the possibility of a system issue - because it isnt the 
case that all applications have been rejected  and appears to suggest that Prodigys 
declining Mr Ms second application was done so on the basis of the merits of that 
application, as they relate to Prodigys acceptance criteria.
Finally, Mr M has expressed his dissatisfaction that Prodigy werent willing to allocate the 
previously agreed loan funds to his new school. I can understand how this might have been 
frustrating for Mr M, but having reviewed the terms and conditions of the loan, its clear that 
while it is possible for Prodigy to agree to reallocate funds as Mr M wanted, such agreement 
is entirely at Prodigys discretion. But Prodigy didnt give their discretion, and they provided 
Mr M with their reasons for this, including that reallocation wouldnt be an option that Prodigy 
would consider when funds had already been partially dispersed  as was the case in this 
instance. And, while Mr M may not agree with Prodigys position on this matter, I cant 
reasonably say that this is a position that Prodigy arent entitled to take.
Ultimately, while Mr Ms first loan application was successful, it doesnt necessarily follow 
that Mr Ms second loan application - undertaken at a different time, for a different university, 
and potentially assessed under an evolved set of acceptance criteria by Prodigy - should be 
automatically successful also. And having reviewed all of the information and evidence 
available to me, Im satisfied that Mr Ms second loan application was considered and 
assessed fairly by Prodigy, and that therefore Prodigys decision not to accept the 
application was one which Prodigy were within their rights to make.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr M was wanting here, but it follows from all of 
the above that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Prodigy to take any further 
action at this time. I hope that Mr M can understand, given everything Ive explained above, 
why I have made the final decision that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman