DRN-3915525
The complaint
This complaint is about a residential mortgage Mr D and Mrs M hold with 
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI). Theyre unhappy that:
BOI didnt tell them that if they let the mortgaged property out with consent, they wouldnt 
be eligible for a new fixed rate when their current deal ended unless they switched to a 
buy to-let (BTL) mortgage; and
if they applied for a BTL mortgage in order to get a better rate, theyd be ineligible 
because they were living abroad.
Its a joint mortgage and both borrowers have joined the complaint. But all of our dealings 
have been with Mrs M.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr D and Mrs M and BOI Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, which has been 
shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. Our investigator 
thought BOI had dealt with the complaint fairly so didnt recommend it be upheld.
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr D and Mrs M being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts.
 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, what follows are my conclusions and the reasons for them.
On the first point of the complaint, Im satisfied the information pack BOI provided at the 
point of applying was enough for Mr D and Mrs M to understand that they wouldnt be 
eligible for a new interest rate product on their residential mortgage if the consent to let went 
ahead. The information pack also said that if borrowers with consent to let on a residential 
mortgage wanted a new rate theyd need to change the mortgage altogether from residential 
to BTL.
I appreciate Mrs Ms frustration that the information pack for consent to let doesnt also make 
clear that a BTL application wont be approved if the borrowers live outside the UK. 
However, its important to keep in mind that the information pack in question relates to 
consent to let, not to taking out a BTL mortgage. The reference to taking out a BTL to get a 
better rate was simply for context. 
If Mr D and Mrs M had been asking BOI about re-mortgaging onto a BTL, then its 
reasonable to take the view that the relevant information pack for what is a very different 
transaction, would then set out the eligibility rules around living outside the UK. Meanwhile, I 
note that the eligibility criteria for BTL applications is on BOS website. 
But Mr D and Mrs M werent asking BOI about re-mortgaging to BTL at that stage, so even 
though it might have known they were planning to go abroad for a spell, it didnt know, and 
didnt have to assume, they might then want to re-mortgage to BTL. 
During the course of Mrs Ms telephone conversation with the bank in January 2020, she 
reacted with pleasant surprise to the call handler telling her they wouldnt need to change the 
mortgage in order to accommodate the plans they had at that point. If shed raised the 
subject of re-mortgaging onto BTL in the call, then Id expect the handler to have answered 
any questions she asked (for example, about the eligibility criteria) fully and accurately. But 
the topic wasnt introduced, and I cant fairly criticise BOI for failing to answer a question it 
wasnt asked.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman