DRN-3893708
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I have complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined their 
claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs I have a travel insurance policy through their packaged bank account, 
underwritten by UKI.
They booked a trip abroad and travelled by car. Unfortunately, they were involved in a car 
accident on the first day of their trip. So they decided not to continue with their trip and 
returned home early. 
They made a claim for their additional return costs which UKI declined as it said there was 
no cover for Mr and Mrs Is circumstances under the terms of the policy.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs I complained and referred their complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt agree the claim had been turned down 
unfairly.
Mr and Mrs I asked for an Ombudsmans decision and in summary, they made the following 
comments:
The policy covers their circumstances for return journeys and this point hasnt been 
considered.
Due to the car accident, they would have been unable to return on the planned date 
as they would need a vehicle to travel on the Eurotunnel but their vehicle was unsafe 
to drive.
They didnt have refundable tickets so the only option was to purchase new tickets  
and so they should be covered as they were unable to return on the planned date 
due to an accident in the vehicle in which they were travelling. 
The additional costs for returning to the UK, and the method of transport back to the 
UK would be the same, be it on the day of the accident, or at the end of the trip. 
And so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy terms
The policy terms and conditions make up the contract of insurance between UKI and Mr and 
Mrs I. The terms set out what is and isnt covered. And they specify the definition of specific 
words in the policy. I will set out the definitions relevant to my decision. 
Trip  A journey that begins and ends at your home...
Point of departure  The airport, port or station from which you leave or to which you return 
during your trip.
Mr and Mrs I say the relevant section which covers them is the missed departure section for 
their return journey, as it was missed due to their car accident. This says:
Missed Departure or Connection
We will pay up to £1,000for each insured person for reasonable extra 
accommodation and travel costs if you fail to arrive at your point of departure or 
connection in time to board your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train. 
Reasons for missed departure or connection
1. Public transport delay: the delay of scheduled public transport (not taxis) in 
which you are travelling to your departure point. 
2. Car accident or breakdown: the vehicle in which you are travelling being 
involved in an accident or breaking down. 
3. Traffic delay: the vehicle in which you are travelling being delayed by heavy 
traffic or road closures severe enough to be reported through a recognised 
media channel. 
This cover applies to your outward and return journeys and any pre-booked transport 
during your trip.
This section only applies whilst Mr and Mrs I are on their trip as the cover applies to journeys 
during your trip. Their trip ended when they returned to the UK, earlier than planned. There 
is no cover under the missed departure section after the end of the trip. 
Mr and Mrs I are claiming for the costs of an early return journey. But once they returned, the 
scheduled return/departure was no longer during the trip, as the trip had ended. Therefore 
Mr and Mrs I didnt miss the departure as they werent travelling to their point of departure. 
They were already home as they had decided to curtail their trip. 
Mr and Mrs I are suggesting that had they remained on the trip, they would have missed 
their departure as they would have failed to arrive on time due to the earlier accident. 
However, they could still have arrived on time had they continued the trip. But they wouldnt 
be able to use their method of transport as they no longer had a vehicle. Unfortunately for 
them, this scenario isnt covered under the terms of the policy. 
The correct section is the curtailment section as Mr and Mrs I cut their trip short. But this only 
covers specific circumstances, none of which apply to Mr and Mrs I.
Whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs I, I cant fairly ask UKI to pay the claim as I dont think there is any cover for their circumstances under the terms of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman