DRN-1654404
The complaint
Mr B complains about security checks carried out by Revolut Ltd while his account was 
locked.
What happened
In 2019, while Mr B was on holiday abroad, his Revolut account was locked. Revolut asked 
him some questions about his source of income and asked him for various documents to 
confirm where his funds came from. Revolut say they needed this information before they 
could unlock the account. The documents they asked for included a legal document relating 
to one of Mr Bs sources of income (the legal document).
Mr B didnt have the legal document with him on holiday and says he offered to provide 
alternative documentation. But he says Revolut insisted on seeing the legal document. As 
this was held in his solicitors archive, Mr B couldnt get hold of it until he was back in the UK. 
So, his account remained locked for the rest of his trip. Mr B says that he later obtained the 
legal document from his solicitors but didnt send it to Revolut in the end because they no 
longer wanted it. He says that, at that stage, Revolut asked him for different documents.
Mr B provided the documents Revolut were asking for and his account was unlocked. But he 
wasnt happy with the way they had dealt with the situation. He complained and asked for 
compensation for the trouble hed been put to and the fact that hed had no access to his 
funds while he was abroad.
Revolut didnt uphold the complaint. They said theyd carried out a review of Mr Bs account 
in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They said theyd locked his account in 
order to check its funding sources and had done so in line with their policies and procedures. 
They acknowledged that this had caused Mr B inconvenience. But they said they had to be 
thorough and couldnt unlock the account until Mr B had provided the information theyd 
asked for.
Mr B wasnt happy with Revoluts response, so he brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator thought Revolut had acted fairly and didnt ask them to do anything. But Mr B 
didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He says he was 
put to the trouble of obtaining a document from his solicitors archive, only to find that 
Revolut didnt want it. And, in the end, he says they were satisfied with documentation which 
he could have provided at the outset.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that its right for Revolut to have measures and procedures in place 
to safeguard customers accounts and prevent fraud so far as possible. As to exactly what 
those procedures are and how they are carried out, thats for Revolut to decide. What I need 
to decide here is whether they applied their procedures correctly and fairly.
Revolut say that an alert was triggered on Mr Bs account, which led to it being locked. They 
say they needed to carry out a due diligence check in order for the block to be lifted. And, for 
that, they say they needed information from Mr B in order to verify his source of income. I 
think thats reasonable. And its in line with Revoluts terms and conditions, which also allow 
them to suspend Mr Bs account if he hasnt given them any information they need. Mr B 
agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions when opening his account. 
As to the information requested by Revolut, I think their questions and requests for 
documents were reasonable. But Mr B says that Revolut changed what they were asking for. 
He says that, initially, they insisted on seeing the legal document. But, in the end, they were 
satisfied with documents which he says he could have provided at the outset. So, Mr B says 
that the unlocking of his account was unnecessarily delayed by Revolut, meaning he didnt 
have access to the funds in the account while he was abroad. In order to make a finding on 
this issue, Ive reviewed the communications between Revolut and Mr B from the day the 
account was locked. 
The day after the account was locked, Mr B told Revolut that his main source of income was 
employment and dividends from investments. Revolut asked for Mr Bs last three payslips 
and his investment portfolio. Mr B asked if evidence of a payment from his third-party bank 
account would be acceptable instead, avoiding the need for him to produce payslips and 
investment proof. He said he wouldnt be able to provide those until he was back home later 
in the month.
Revolut then asked Mr B again about his main source of income. He referred to another 
source of income, which he said was detailed in the legal document. He said that his 
accountant would be able to confirm everything in writing. Revolut then asked for Mr Bs 
payslips from the last three months or his tax statement and/or invoices and bank 
statements for the last three months.
Mr B submitted his tax return the same day. Revolut then asked for the legal document. Mr B 
explained that he wouldnt be able to get a copy until he was back home later in the month. 
He again suggested a letter from his accountant and asked for a copy of Revoluts 
complaints procedure.
Revolut asked for the legal document again and Mr B said he would provide it when he was 
home. There was no further contact on the chat log until around six weeks later, when Mr B 
attempted to submit a document. Im not sure which document that was, as Revolut say the 
attempts were unsuccessful. But the following day, Revolut asked for Mr Bs last three 
payslips or a bank statement showing the last three salary payments and his tax return. Mr B 
provided these and Revolut unlocked his account. Revolut say that these documents 
satisfied their enquiries, so they no longer needed the legal document. 
Having reviewed the chat log, I find that Revoluts requests for information were somewhat 
piecemeal and could have been set out more clearly. So, I can understand Mr Bs 
frustrations in that respect. But I think overall it was clear that Revolut wanted to know where 
Mr Bs income came from and to see evidence of that. He initially said that his main source 
of income was employment and dividends. So Revolut asked for payslips and Mr Bs 
investment portfolio, which Mr B said he couldnt provide at the time. Mr B then mentioned 
another source of income. This prompted Revoluts request for the legal document, although 
they were still asking for other documents as well.
Mr B provided his tax return straight away. But I think it was clear that this document was 
only a part of Revoluts enquiries  they also wanted to see payslips and/or bank statements 
and/or the legal document. It isnt clear from the requests whether all these documents were needed or whether some were interchangeable. But they were all requested within the first 
two days of the account being locked and when Mr B had an active dialogue with Revolut. 
So, I dont find that the way in which Revolut requested the information caused a delay in 
resolving the situation.
I take Mr Bs point that the legal document, which had seemed important early on, wasnt 
needed in the end. And I can understand his frustration over that. But I dont find that 
Revolut said the legal document was the only thing they would accept to unlock the account. 
The documents they asked for, and were satisfied with, in the end had been requested early 
on too. Mr B says hed offered to provide these while he was abroad, but I havent seen 
evidence of that. Mr B said he couldnt provide payslips until he was at home and he didnt 
upload bank statements at the time (other than one to confirm that a top-up payment had 
been made).
If Mr B had been able to provide this information straight away, I find it likely the account 
would have been unlocked while he was still abroad. And it would have come to light more 
quickly that the legal document was no longer relevant. But I dont find that Revolut caused 
delay here. 
An alert had been triggered prompting Mr Bs account to be locked, so I think it was 
reasonable for Revolut to carry out checks and ask for information before unlocking the 
account. For the reasons above, I dont find that Mr B did / could provide the necessary 
paperwork until he was at home, whether it was the legal document or the payslips or bank 
statements. So, I think Mr Bs account would have remained blocked for the remainder of his 
holiday in any event.
I realise my decision is likely to be disappointing to Mr B. But I dont find that Revolut acted 
unfairly here. So, Im not going to ask them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman