DRN-3070649
The complaint
Mr L has complained that his home was damaged by British Gas Insurance Limited (British 
Gas) due to works it carried out under his home emergency policy.
  
What happened
Mr L had a fault with his boiler. So, British Gas sent an engineer who fitted a new hot water 
pump. A few days later, there was a leak from the boiler. When British Gas sent an engineer, 
they found that the first engineer had incorrectly fitted the pump, which had caused the leak. 
Soon afterwards, Mr L contacted British Gas again because he found damage around the 
sink area that he said was the result of the leak. About three months later, British Gas 
inspected the damage and said it hadnt caused the damage around the sink area and there 
was evidence of a pre-existing issue.
When British Gas replied to Mr Ls complaint it accepted it hadnt fitted the hot water pump 
correctly, which had caused a leak. It said the only damage was around the sink area. There 
was no damage to areas such as the boiler housing, the boxing in below the boiler or the 
worktop below the boiler, which it would have expected if the damage around the sink area 
was connected to the boiler leak. The sink seals had mastic applied previously and the 
worktop area was soft, which was why the taps werent sitting straight. It said there was 
nothing to indicate the damage around the sink was due to the leak from the boiler. 
However, it offered £100 compensation because of the inconvenience of multiple visits by 
engineers.
When Mr L complained to our service, our investigator upheld the complaint. He said it 
wasnt in doubt that there was a leak caused by British Gas. British Gas had argued the 
damage was pre-existing because mastic had been applied to the taps, but Mr L had said he 
applied the mastic following the leak. As British Gas had waited three months to send 
anyone to view the damage, he said it hadnt provided persuasive evidence of the damage 
being present before the leak. He said British Gas should pay to replace the damaged 
section of the worktop that the tap sat in.
As British Gas didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
British Gas accepts it caused a leak in Mr Ls home because it incorrectly fitted a hot water 
pump. Mr L said a large amount of water leaked from the boiler, which covered the kitchen 
worktops and floor and took considerable work to mop up. He said that some of it got behind 
the worktop in the sink area and caused damage to the worktop.
From what Ive seen, Mr L contacted British Gas promptly to explain his concerns about the 
worktop. But British Gas took three months to inspect the damage. This meant that British 
Gas didnt inspect the damage close to the time that it happened. Although it has said the 
mastic was evidence that the damage was pre-existing, it hasnt provided any evidence for 
how old it thinks the mastic was or why Mr Ls explanation that he applied it following the 
leak wasnt credible. I find Mr Ls explanation believable and Im not persuaded that the 
mastic showed that the damage was pre-existing.
Ive also thought about whether the damage only being around the sink area means that it is 
less likely to be the result of the leak from the boiler. My understanding is that the leak was 
extensive and it took nearly an hour to turn off the water supply to stop the leak. Mr L has 
said the water went over the kitchen worktops and floor. 
Ive looked at the photos of the kitchen and can see that the boiler sits above the worktop 
that the sink sits in, although they are not right next to each other. But, based on what Mr L 
has described, I think it is credible that the water was able to spread along the counter to the 
sink area. Although Mr L mopped up the water, he said some of it was able to get behind the 
worktop by the sink and so couldnt be mopped up, which was what caused the damage. 
Again, I think this is a credible explanation. 
British Gas said the worktop was soft around the sink area, which would suggest that water 
had got into it, although I accept this doesnt mean it could only have happened because of 
the leak. Im also aware that following British Gass inspection of the damage it said other 
areas closer to the boiler didnt show signs of damage. But Mr L explained that he mopped 
up as much water as he could and that it was water he couldnt get to that caused the 
damage. So, I dont find British Gass argument persuasive. 
So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that the area around the 
sink was damaged by the water leak. As British Gas caused the water leak, I think it needs 
to fix the damage. Mr L has said he needs the damaged part of the worktop to be replaced 
so that the tap can be refitted properly. So, I require British Gas to cover the costs for 
replacing the damaged section of worktop. British Gas should also ensure that Mr L has 
received the £100 it previously offered, which I think was appropriate in the circumstances of 
this case.
  
Putting things right
British Gas must cover the costs for replacing the damaged section of worktop and ensure 
that Mr L has received the compensation it previously offered.   My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to: 
cover the costs for replacing the damaged section of worktop
ensure Mr L has received the £100 compensation it previously offered.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman