DRN-2281145
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt share any information about 
her current account with the credit reference agencies.
What happened
In 2000, an RBS childrens bank account was opened in Mrs Ws maiden name. The terms 
and conditions of this account didnt allow for sharing information with the credit reference 
agencies. She upgraded the account to a student account in 2009. After graduating, she 
continued to use the current account until she closed it in 2019.
In 2017, Mrs W attended her local branch to let RBS know she was now married and to 
update her details. She didnt discuss her credit file at this time.
In 2019, Mrs W made a complaint to RBS as she found out they hadnt shared any 
information about her account with the credit reference agencies. She said RBS had made 
an error, and shed been substantially impacted over the last ten years as she wasnt able to 
get any credit.
In response to the complaint, RBS explained they didnt share her information with the credit 
reference agencies as these agencies didnt exist when her account was first opened. They 
could have started sharing information when her account was upgraded in 2009. However, 
Mrs W would have needed to have specifically requested this and completed a form to show 
they had her permission. They also said they cant now share her historic information with 
the credit reference agencies or add any new information as her account is closed. 
Mrs W didnt think this was fair and highlighted the fact she also had a student credit card 
connected with the current account.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and said they thought RBS should pay Mrs W £250 
compensation to say sorry for the inconvenience this issue caused her. 
RBS accepted the investigators recommendation to resolve the complaint, but Mrs W said 
she didnt think the compensation was sufficient. 
I issued a provisional decision on 2 March 2021, which said I wasnt intending on upholding 
the complaint. I made the following findings:
Although most banks share information with credit reference agencies, there is no legal 
obligation for them to do so. If a bank does decide to share information, it must be 
accurate, and they should also get their consumers permission. This usually takes place 
when they open the account and forms part of the terms and conditions. 
Ive asked RBS to explain their policy for existing accounts, when they first started 
reporting information to the credit reference agencies. Theyve explained they took the 
commercial decision only to start reporting information in relation to new accounts. 
However, as part of their policy, they would send their existing customers a permission 
form to complete, should they specifically ask for their information to be shared. Theyve 
also explained that upgrading an account wouldnt automatically change things, as the 
customer would still need to provide their permission, so they could update the account 
details and share information. RBSs policy isnt unusual as I believe other banks 
followed similar policies at the time. 
As RBS followed their own internal policy in relation to Mrs Ws current account, Im 
satisfied they didnt do anything wrong by not sharing any of her information with the 
credit reference agencies, once this became an option. For the same reason, Im also 
satisfied they didnt do anything wrong by not writing to her and asking her if she wanted 
to opt-in.
I appreciate Mrs W had a conversation with an adviser in a local branch in 2017, and 
there appears to have been some difficulties updating her details. However, as she didnt 
ask about her credit file at this time, I wouldnt reasonably expect the adviser to have 
discussed this either.
RBS have said they could have given Mrs W the option of completing a permission form 
in 2019. However, as Mrs W had already decided to close the account, this was no 
longer a relevant option.
Im aware Mrs W feels she has been disadvantaged because of RBSs policy for ten 
years, but I dont think this is likely to have been the case. If Mrs W had been actively 
applying for credit since 2009, I think its likely she would have identified the fact RBS 
wasnt sharing any information much sooner. In which case, she could have asked RBS 
to start sharing her information and signed the appropriate permission form. 
Ive also asked RBS why they didnt share any information about Mrs Ws student credit 
card, and theyve said they havent found any evidence of such an account existing. If 
Mrs W can provide evidence to contradict this, Ill consider this argument again. 
In light of the above, I dont think RBS have done anything wrong, so Im not intending on 
directing them to pay Mrs W any compensation. If RBS would still like to honour their 
offer to pay Mrs W £250, they can arrange this with her directly. But Im not intending on 
requiring them to do so.
Mrs W accepted my provisional decision and said she didnt wish to add any further 
comments. 
RBS also accepted my findings and said they no longer intended on paying any 
compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided anything further for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
As RBS havent done anything wrong, Im not directing them to pay any compensation to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman