DRN-4160303
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc unfairly declined their mortgage 
application. Mr L has dealt with the complaint. He asks that RBS changes its lending policy 
or admits it doesnt lend to people that have recently retired and pays compensation for his 
wasted time.
What happened
In March 2023 Mr and Mrs L applied to RBS for a mortgage. RBS declined their application, 
saying it couldnt verify the sustainability of their income source. Mr Ls income is from a 
pension. He says RBSs lending policy is based on a lack of knowledge about pension 
regulations. 
Our investigator said RBS declined the application in accordance with its lending policy and 
hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman re-consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like all lenders, RBS has lending criteria. This is a matter for its commercial judgement and 
not something I can fairly require it to change. 
Rules on mortgage regulation require lenders to carry out strict affordability tests before 
offering a mortgage. RBS will offer mortgages to retired customers provided their retirement 
income meets its affordability tests. RBS told Mr and Mrs L their application was declined 
because it couldnt verify the sustainability of their income source. 
Mr L disagrees. He says the mortgage is low risk for RBS. Mr L says while he could 
withdraw his whole pension before the end of the mortgage term theres no reason he would 
do this. He says they have other savings, and the mortgage would have a very low loan to 
value ratio. I understand the points made and Mr Ls frustration. 
But, in fairness, I must take into account that RBS had to carry out an affordability check 
before offering a mortgage to Mr and Mrs L. I think it did this fairly and in accordance with its 
own criteria. It told Mr and Mrs L why it was unable to offer them a mortgage.
I dont think there was any unnecessary or unreasonable delay by RBS in reviewing the 
application and giving Mr and Mrs L its decision. Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage application was 
submitted on 3 March 2023. RBS asked for information about the pension on 8 March 2023. 
It declined the application on 16 March 2023, after review by senior management. 
RBS says it told Mr L at the outset that consent from senior management was needed to 
submit the application as an exception. Senior management agreed on the basis there was 
no commitment to lend and the underwriters decision would be final. I think Mr and Mrs L 
were made aware that the application might be declined due to the nature of their income 
and chose to proceed on this basis. 
Mr L told us they didnt need a mortgage to buy the property and are able to do so with their 
own funds and have money to spare. He says they didnt find the matter distressing, they 
arent disappointed and they dont care whether RSB offers them a mortgage or not. 
Taking all this into account, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require RBS to pay 
compensation for any time Mr and Mrs L spent on the application or gathering supporting 
documents, or to take any further steps in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman