DRN-3605070
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the amount Tesco Underwriting Limited paid in settlement of her car 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs Ss car was involved in an accident. Tesco deemed it a total loss and settled the claim 
by paying the cars market value. It paid £13,468, less the policy excess. Mrs S says the 
valuation was too low and thinks Tesco ignored actual garage forecourt prices. Mrs S also 
had an engineer assess the car and they valued it at £14,990. She doesnt think the Glass 
valuation guide Tesco used is reliable.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld. They 
said the valuation guides were more reliable than the engineers report as they are based on 
national research on selling prices. They carried out their own search using three valuation 
guides, Glass CAP and Cazoo, and concluded that Tesco should increase its valuation to 
£14,008 and pay Mrs S the difference between this and what it had already paid her. 
Tesco didnt accept our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said: 
The two valuation guides it used, Glass and CAP, are established and recognised 
guides which have been relied on for many years by qualified engineers. 
It did not use Cazoo in any of its valuation cases and would not treat any customers 
differently by doing so. 
It thought the engineer Mrs S had commission used market research which is 
unreliable as this is not the selling price but the asking price. 
It thought the value produced by Cazoo was more than 10% higher than Glass and 
should be discounted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. I 
know this will be disappointing to Mrs S, but Ill explain why. 
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look 
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of the policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Mrs Ss policy, Tesco must pay her the market value of the car at 
the time of the loss, less her excess.
Valuing a car is not an exact science and can be quite challenging. Its standard practice for 
the industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated market value of a car. And its 
not unreasonable that it does so, as the valuation the guides give are based on national 
research on likely selling prices for similar cars of a similar age and mileage for sale at the 
time of loss. We find the guides are usually more reliable than individual adverts because 
adverts can fluctuate greatly in price from car to car and depending on the retailer. For this 
reason, I find the valuation guides more reliable than the engineers report which has been 
based on individual adverts found online. 
We asked Tesco for evidence of its valuations search, but it couldnt provide evidence of its 
CAP valuation, so I havent been able to rely on its figures. Our investigator therefore carried 
out their own searches using CAP, Cazoo and Glass and these produced figures of 
£13,995, £14,870, and £13,160, respectively for cars sold in the retail market. Cazoo is 
recognised by our service and in the industry and while Tesco may not use it in its 
valuations, I think its reasonable to consider it when calculating a fair market value.
Id normally discount a guides valuation if it is significantly out of line with the other two 
guides. Irrespective of whether its higher or lower than the other guides. Tesco thinks the 
valuation obtained from Cazoo is significantly higher than the Glass guide and so shouldnt 
be included in the calculations, but I dont agree. Glass and Cazoos valuations represent 
the upper and lower limits of the range, but overall, I find the valuations produced by all three 
guides are evenly spread.
Mrs S and her engineer both think the Glass value is not reflective of market prices. Ive 
considered the advertised prices Mrs S stated, as well as the engineers valuation and Ive 
carried out my own search. I find the three valuations our investigator obtained are in line 
with advertised prices Ive seen for similar cars sold around the same time. Therefore, Im 
satisfied all three guides can be considered here.
I think a fair way to resolve things is to use an average of the three guides as an 
approximate value for Mrs S car. Thats £14,008, so Tesco should increase its valuation to 
this figure and pay Mrs S the difference between this and what its already paid. It should 
also pay 8% simple interest per annum on the difference from the date it settled the claim 
until payment is made.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Tesco Underwriting 
Limited to: 
Increase its valuation to £14,008 and pay Mrs S the difference between this and what 
its already paid her. It should therefore pay her £540.
It should also pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date the claim was 
settled until the payment is made. *
* If Tesco Underwriting Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It
should also give Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman