DRN-3376617
The complaint
Mr I complains that he was mis-sold his Amtrust Europe Limited furniture warranty and that 
his claim for accidental damage was declined.  
What happened
Mr I bought a suite of furniture in July 2019 from a well-known high street retailer. At the 
same time he also purchased a furniture protection warranty underwritten by Amtrust. In 
November 2021 Mr I complained to us that his warranty had been mis-sold. He said hed 
been told when it was sold that he was fully covered but hed just made a claim for 
scratching and staining to the dining table and chairs and for rips and tears to the sofa and 
was told by Amtrust that the claim wasnt covered by the terms of the warranty. Mr I 
complained to Amtrust saying he wanted his claim to be reassessed. 
Amtrust told us that the sale was undertaken by the retailer on a non-advised basis so itd 
not been involved. It said that normally any mis-sale complaint would be directed to the 
retailer but as it had ceased to trade (and was unable to answer complaints) itd agreed to 
issue final responses to any mis-sale complaints made. 
Amtrust issued its final response to Mr Is complaint in early November 2021. It said the sale 
had been non-advised so the responsibility for making sure the warranty met with his needs 
rested with Mr I. It said that prior to the purchase the retailer provided Mr I with a leaflet 
explaining the terms and conditions of the warranty. It said that leaflet included a summary of 
the key benefits and exclusions along with a full copy of the warranty terms and conditions. It 
said the leaflet also included a section entitled whats included and whats not. Amtrust 
said it was unable to uphold Mr Is complaint as it was his responsibility to ensure he was 
happy with the product he was offered before he made the purchase. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Is complaint but didnt recommend it was upheld. He said 
the warranty provided cover for accidental stains or damage not general wear and tear 
caused over time (which is how Mr I had explained the damage had occurred). He also 
noted the policy didnt provide cover where the damage was the result of lack of reasonable 
care, mishandling or abuse. So he didnt think that Amtrust had unfairly declined Mr Is claim. 
And he said there was no evidence the warranty had been mis-sold and, in any event, it was 
Mr Is responsibility to make sure it met his needs because itd been sold on a non-advised 
basis. 
Mr I disagreed with our investigators findings. He said the leaflet was misleading and that 
the warranty shouldnt have exclusions. He repeated that hed been told everything was 
covered so he didnt read the leaflet as a result. And he said he didnt think Amtrust had 
fairly declined his claim for rips on the sofa because hed told it about them as soon as they 
occurred. 
Our investigator asked Amtrust about the claim for the damaged sofa and it sent him its 
technicians report. The technician reported that there were multiple issues with the sofa 
which were caused by wear and tear, for example the faux leather pipings topcoat had worn 
off. He also said hed tested the recliners (that Mr I had reported as not working) and found 
them in good working order albeit with a lot of debris around the mechanism which he 
advised Mr I to remove. And he said the damage to the dining table was through usage not 
the result of one single incident as was the heavy soiling to the dining chairs which he 
thought had happened over a period of time. The report included numerous photographs. 
Amtrust said to our investigator that it was willing to arrange a further technicians visit if Mr I 
was of the view that damage was missed. 
Our investigator explained to Mr I what the technicians report had said along with Amtrusts 
offer to arrange another technicians visit. Mr I said he still disagreed that the damage (to the 
piping) was the result of wear and tear. He said it was accidental and caused by his children 
and he sent our investigator some photographs. He also said he would like a technician to 
visit again. Our investigator also asked Amtrust about the wear and tear to the sofa given it 
was only two and half years old. Amtrust said it should be allowed to rely on its technicians 
findings but said that as another technician was about to go out again it would ask them to 
double check all the damage to the sofa. 
Amtrusts second technician visited Mr I in February 2022. He noted that the 3-seater sofa 
seats at the front edge where the piping attaches to the fabric all had rips and cuts caused 
(he believed) by children scraping keys. He also said the right-hand arm of the 2-seater sofa 
had the same problem. He said the only way to repair the cushions would be to replace the 
seat covers. The report included some further photographs. 
Amtrust said that, in light of the second report, it stood by its decision that the warranty 
exclusion for wear and tear, gradual damage, damage caused over a period of time or the 
accumulation of multiple stains could be successfully applied to decline the claim. 
Our investigator issued some further findings but wasnt persuaded to change his mind; he 
remained of the view that the complaint should not be upheld. Mr I responded to say that 
Amtrust was looking for an excuse to avoid the claim and that the rips and cuts to the piping 
had all occurred on the same day. So he said he wanted the claim reconsidered. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the disappointment this decision will cause Mr I, I dont think this is a 
complaint that can be fairly or reasonably upheld; Ill explain why. 
Mis-sale
Mr I says he was told that the warranty covered everything. Unfortunately, without any 
documentary evidence to support what Mr I has said I cant reasonably agree with what he 
has said. As mentioned above, the sale of the policy by the retailer was on a non-advised 
basis. That means that no advice was given, or recommendation made, as to the suitability 
of the policy for Mr Is needs. Instead, with non-advised sales, consumers are given printed 
information to allow them to decide if the product they are purchasing is suitable for their 
needs. The responsibility for doing so rests with the consumer themselves. 
I need to be satisfied that Mr I was given the necessary information to allow him to decide if 
the warranty met his needs. Im satisfied that he was. Mr I has said he received the No 
Worries leaflet from the retailer. I can see that the leaflet set out the key facts about what the warranty provided  cover against accidental damage caused by rips, tears and burns 
etc.  and key facts about what the warranty didnt provide cover for: general wear and tear 
or accumulation of multiple stains. The leaflet also included the full warranty terms and 
conditions. 
So Im satisfied that Mr I was presented with sufficient information to make an informed 
decision about the suitability of the warranty for his needs. Mr I has said he didnt read the 
leaflet. But that isnt the fault of the retailer/Amtrust. It only had to provide the leaflet to him, 
which it did. It didnt need to provide any advice because the sale was a non-advised one. 
It follows that Im satisfied that the warranty wasnt mis-sold to Mr I. Im also satisfied that he 
was given sufficient information to make an informed choice. And without any documentary 
evidence in support of Mr Is comment that he was told the warranty covered everything 
I cant reasonably agree with him that it should. So I cant uphold this part of Mr Is 
complaint. 
The claim
Not all damage sustained by the furniture Mr I purchased will be covered by the warranty. 
Only the damage caused by certain events listed in the warranty is covered such as that 
caused accidentally by rips, tears, burns, scuffs, certain stains, heat marks etc. along with 
defects to recliner mechanisms etc.
Mr I reported that the damage to his dining suite constituted lots of scratches over time from 
mid-2021 to September 2021 and lots of stains on the chairs from spillages over the same 
time frame. And he reported that there were rips and tears to the sofas. 
For the damage claimed for to be covered by the warranty it must have been caused 
accidentally (that is a one-off event that happens unintentionally or unexpectedly). Damage 
caused by wear and tear however, or gradually over time, or deliberately, isnt covered. 
Amtrust sent two technicians out to assess the damage both of which reported that the 
damage to the dining set and sofas was the result of wear and tear, had occurred over time 
(and was therefore gradual) or was done deliberately  by being scraped by children with 
keys. Ive seen all the photographs taken  both by the technicians and by Mr I  and it is fair 
to say that they support the conclusions reached by the technicians as to the cause of the 
damage. I can see multiple scrapes to the piping and multiple staining to the dining table and 
chairs that, it is reasonable to conclude, has happened over a period of time as a result of 
general use. 
Unfortunately for Mr I, damage caused in these ways isnt covered by the warranty as it 
excludes from cover damage thats the result of wear and tear, that happens gradually or is 
caused deliberately (including by children). 
Its my role to decide whether Amtrust has treated Mr I fairly and reasonably in the way it has 
handled his claim and I have to say that I think it has. It has assessed his claim for damage 
against the warranty terms having sent a technician out to inspect it (and a second one later 
on). The technician is an expert in assessing damage of this nature so I cant reasonably 
ignore the conclusions he (they) reached. To do so, without any evidence to the contrary, 
wouldnt be reasonable. The photographs taken support the conclusions drawn. And when 
considered alongside the warranty terms and conditions I think that Amtrust fairly and 
reasonably declined Mr Is claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman