DRN-3329428
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited unfairly cancelled their home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T had a home insurance policy with Tesco, which they took out in January 2021. 
In May 2021, Mr and Mrs T were told by the local water company that their and their 
neighbours sewage pipes were miss connected and needed to be rectified  at the property 
owners expense. The water company suggested Mr and Mrs T might be able to claim for this 
on their home insurance policy.
So, Mr and Mrs T contacted Tesco to discuss this. Tesco felt this was a long-standing issue 
that Mr and Mrs T werent concerned with remedying. They said this meant damage could 
arise and if Mr and Mrs T werent going to take preventative action, they werent prepared to 
insure them anymore.
Tesco cancelled Mr and Mrs Ts policy.
Mr and Mrs T werent happy with that, they said while there had been some minor issues 
causing a smell, there was no damage and theyd only been told about the miss connection 
work being required in May 2021. Mr and Mrs T said the policy cancellation and outstanding 
work required was making it difficult for them to obtain insurance elsewhere. They said this 
caused them a lot of worry.
Tesco maintained that the policy cancellation was fair, so Mr and Mrs T brought their 
complaint to our service.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They agreed that the policy cancellation was 
unfair, asking Tesco to reinstate the policy and consider the claim. The investigator also said 
Tesco should pay £100 compensation and remove any record of cancellation.
Tesco eventually said they would be happy to reinstate the policy but that they didnt think 
the claim would have been covered. This was because while Mr and Mrs T might have only 
become aware of the issue of miss connection in May 2021, it was felt to have been a long-
standing issue that wouldve been present before the policy started in January 2021.
Agreement couldnt be reached so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt my intention to revisit all of the arguments that have gone before, bearing in mind the 
main issue of complaint  the policy cancellation  has effectively been resolved by Tescos 
agreement to reinstate it. Although I will say that if Tesco hadnt agreed to do so, Id be 
requiring them to. Thats because Mr and Mrs T didnt say they werent interested in having 
the work done. Indeed they have told us recently that it has been completed, at considerable 
expense.
I appreciate that the reinstatement is of little effect, given that the policy would naturally have 
come to an end by now. In view of this I dont think it would be reasonable for Tesco to 
charge for the term that wouldve remained. But what it means is that Mr and Mrs T will no 
longer have to tell insurers that theyve had a policy cancelled. That should make it easier for 
them to find competitively priced policies in future.
I agree with Tesco that the expense in dealing with the miss connection wouldnt be covered 
by the policy, on account of the fact that it seems most likely the issue pre-dated the policy 
inception  even though it was discovered later. In these particular circumstances, I dont 
think it would be reasonable for me to require Tesco to cover the cost of something that pre-
dated the provision of their policy.
Turning to compensation, I agree that this should be paid to Mr and Mrs T. They have 
explained that the matter meant they were unable to find replacement cover, and but for 
Tescos cancellation of the policy this wouldnt have been required.
Mr and Mrs T said they were extremely worried theyd incur a loss whilst uninsured. And that 
this affected their sleep, their appetites and their behaviour, as they felt unable to leave their 
property independently of each other  in case something happened.
In view of this I think a reasonable amount of compensation would be £250.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to pay 
Mr and Mrs T £250 compensation, and to remove any record of the cancellation of their 
policy from internal and external records.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman