DRN-2966037
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly turned down his business interruption 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr F held a business protection insurance policy with Covea. He claimed on the loss of 
income section of his policy after his business was impacted by Covid-19 and the 
governments response to the pandemic. 
Covea turned down Mr Fs claim as it said Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases covered by 
the policy. 
Unhappy with Coveas response, Mr F brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Fs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
explained why he didnt think various parts of Mr Fs policy provided cover for the 
circumstances of his claim. 
Mr F accepted that some parts of the policy didnt provide cover but said Covid-19 couldnt 
have been included in the policys list of diseases as it wasnt known about at the time the 
policy was taken out. He asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr Fs business. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Business protection insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Covea have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mr Fs claim.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that most parts of Mr Fs policy dont provide cover for his 
claim. I will therefore focus my decision on the policy extension for disease. However, for 
completeness, I would like to reassure Mr F that I have considered his policy in its entirety 
and, having done so, I think Covea have acted fairly and reasonably in saying that the policy 
doesnt cover his claim. 
The relevant part of the extension for infectious diseases says:
The insurance by this Section extends to include interruption of or interference 
with Your Business in consequence of closure of the Premises or part thereof on 
the order advice or stipulation of any government or local authority as a result of
1) any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired            
Immune Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an Aids-related condition) 
manifested by any person whilst at the Premises, or within a 25 mile radius 
of the Premises
A disease is defined within the policy as being any of a specified list of diseases. The list of 
covered diseases doesnt include Covid-19.  
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar policies on the market that 
provided cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, for example policies which covered all 
notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Mr Fs policy is not 
like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in 
the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which 
might emerge. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new 
diseases.
The list of covered diseases does include SARS, so Ive considered whether this would
extend to cover Covid-19. However, I dont think SARS and Covid-19 are the same disease.
The Governments list of notifiable diseases lists them as two separate diseases. And the
World Health Organisation has also confirmed that while related, the two viruses are
different, and it announced that Covid-19 was the name of this new disease on 11
February 2020. Based on the evidence Ive seen I dont think I can reasonably say that
these two diseases are the same. Therefore, this doesnt provide cover for Mr Fs claim.
I recognise this isnt the outcome Mr F was hoping for but, having considered the 
matter very carefully, I cant fairly require Covea to pay Mr Fs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman