DRN-3196406
The complaint
S, a sole trader, complains about how First Data Europe Limited handled a chargeback and 
the related costs.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both S and First Data. I wont repeat in  
detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the 
reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
S is a travel agency and had a merchant service agreement with First Data. This enabled S 
to take card payments from customers. Around the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, one of  
S customers raised a chargeback through their card issuing bank. First Data attempted to 
defend the chargeback on behalf of S, but the chargeback was successful and S was 
debited around £1,500.
S initially complained to First Data about the chargeback and the associated fees. 
Dissatisfied with the response he received they referred the complaint to our Service for an 
independent review. The investigator wasnt persuaded First Data had acted unfairly. As 
S didnt accept our investigators findings the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Its important to state that there is a distinct difference between a claim made under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) and a chargeback brought under the 
relevant card scheme rules. S has referred throughout the complaint to Section 75, but this 
chargeback was brought under the relevant card scheme rules. Therefore, my decision wont 
comment on the detailed Section 75 arguments made by S  as theyre not relevant here to 
my decision. My decision also wont comment on the concerns S has with chargebacks in 
general as my role is to decide this complaint only.  
The chargeback process 
The chargeback process is largely defined by the card scheme rules. Under the card 
scheme rules, the customer who booked the holiday with S were able to raise a chargeback 
against S. 
S has argued that they were effectively an intermediary and not the provider of the holiday -  
so they arent liable for the chargeback. But as payment was taken through S terminal, 
under the card scheme rules, the chargeback was correctly raised against S. No evidence 
has been presented to support that the card holder was fully indemnified for their loss 
through other means  such as a successful insurance policy claim. 
The terms of S and First Datas agreement set out that a card holder can dispute any 
transaction and explain what happens:
When a chargeback is received, we will debit the disputed amount from your 
account and contact you with details of the card transaction together with the 
information/documentation we require from you and the deadline by which we require 
it. 
If the information provided is sufficient to warrant a reversal of the chargeback and is 
within the applicable timescale, we will attempt to defend the chargeback. However, 
reversal is contingent upon acceptance by the card issuer under the applicable card 
schemes guidelines
First Data made S aware of the chargeback on 10 July 2020 and gave an opportunity to 
present a defence - which was shared with the issuing bank. Based on the evidence 
provided, the cardholder had travelled on 9 March 2020 and was due to return on 23 March 
2020, but their holiday was curtailed by COVID-19 restrictions whilst abroad. They later 
raised a chargeback under the reason code goods or services not received. 
Unfortunately for S, the issuing bank continued to dispute the transaction on behalf of their 
cardholder despite the defence, and on 30 September 2020 First Data let S know the 
cardholders chargeback had succeeded. S argues First Data should have contested the 
chargeback further. Im not persuaded it was unfair for it not to though. Ill explain why.
First Data had a decision to make when the card issuer didnt accept S defence. It could 
either accept the chargeback on behalf of S, or it could ultimately pursue the matter to 
arbitration. Arbitration means the matter is deciding by the card scheme. Its time consuming 
and costly  costs which could be passed on to S. Because of this, its not something banks 
tend to do often, and then when they do, theres generally significant money at stake and 
ideally have a high chance of success. 
Here, S was paid for a service. S didnt directly provide the service, but was paid for it. And 
for reasons  admittedly outside of S control  the full service wasnt provided. On 14 March 
2020 the UK government advised against all but essential travel to the cardholders holiday 
destination and the holiday destination had declared a State of Emergency on the same day. 
The card holder was already on holiday at this time
In these circumstances, a cardholder would generally be entitled to a partial refund. S has 
made various arguments and I can understand why they feel as strongly as they do. But Im 
not persuaded this case was highly likely to succeed had First Data taken it to arbitration. 
And theres a chance the costs could have outweighed the potential benefit. 
S has argued that the booking terms take precedent here. But I dont agree. The card 
scheme rules take precedent over the sale terms and the agreement between S and First 
Data.
Having seen the defence presented by S and having kept in mind the COVID-19 situation 
and associated restrictions both here in the UK and at the cardholders holiday destination in March 2020, I dont find that First Data have acted unfairly or unreasonably in not pursuing 
the chargeback defence further. 
On balance, I find First Datas decision to accept the chargeback  following an initial 
defence  was fair and reasonable. Its not my role to determine whether or not a 
chargeback should succeed. Instead, Ive considered whether First Data have treated 
S fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms of their merchant services agreement and the 
Visa scheme rules. 
The associated fees
For completeness, Ive addressed this point as it was referenced in the initial complaint to 
First Data. Im satisfied that the relevant fees related to chargebacks were made sufficiently 
clear on page three of the merchant services agreement signed on behalf of S when this 
agreement was taken out. 
Its positive that First Data reviewed the fees S was paying when the complaint was raised 
and this resulted in a possible saving of around £140 per year.
Summary 
I find that First Data has treated S fairly, reasonably and in line with the relevant card 
scheme rules and the merchant services agreement when handling this chargeback. I also 
find that S was made aware of the associated chargeback fees when taking out this 
agreement.
I acknowledge that my decision will likely disappoint S, but it brings to an end what our 
Service - in trying to informally resolve their dispute with First Data - can do for them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman