DRN-2358598
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the failure of British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) to undertake a 
repair in a timely manner.
What happened
Mr R had a HomeCare 400 policy with BG that covered him for a number of services 
including the repair of gas appliances. This provided cover for a gas fire he had. In 
November 2020, the gas fire developed a fault and he called BG to fix it. BG initially told him 
his fire wasnt covered because its records showed that in March 2020, when his policy was 
coming up for renewal, hed asked that Gas Appliance cover and Kitchen Appliance cover be 
removed from his policy so as to keep the premium down. Mr R says he doesnt remember 
doing this.
BG agreed to repair his fire, but required him to pay £109 to reinstate his Gas Appliance 
cover. Mr R paid this. BG came to do a repair on 28 October, but it didnt last. Mr R tried to 
make another appointment for a BG engineer to visit, but BG told him that an engineer 
wouldnt be available until 23 November.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with this, so BG said that he could use an independent engineer to 
undertake the repair and BG would reimburse him the cost of this. It also agreed to pay him 
compensation of £54.50, which was half of what hed had to pay BG to reinstate cover for 
gas appliances.
Mr Rs complaint is that BG shouldve offered a repair within a reasonable time, and that 
three to four weeks wasnt reasonable. He doesnt consider BGs offer to allow him to source 
his own engineer to do the repair to be acceptable. He doesnt consider that BGs terms and 
conditions are fair and equitable. He believes he should get the service he paid for from BG, 
and which he says BG failed to provide.
As Mr R wasnt satisfied with BGs response to his complaint, he brought it to this service. 
Our investigators view was that BG had followed their terms and conditions by giving Mr R 
an alternative date and the option of a third party repairing his gas fire. He considered that 
BG had acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R doesnt agree with our investigators view, and has asked that his complaint be 
considered by an ombudsman, so its been referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive seen BGs records which indicate that in March 2020 Mr R contacted it and asked that 
Gas Appliance cover and Kitchen Appliance cover be removed, and as a consequence a 
reduction was made to his premium. A renewal notice confirming his reduced cover was sent 
to him on 3 March 2020 for the policy year starting on 4 April 2020. Mr R didnt contact BG to 
say that this was wrong. Ive no reason to doubt  BGs records that the reduction in cover 
was at Mr Rs request. I therefore consider that BG acted reasonably in pointing out to Mr R 
in October that if he wanted his gas fire repaired hed have to pay to reinstate his Gas 
Appliance cover.
As to the long wait for an engineer to be available to come and undertake another repair to 
Mr Rs gas fire, BG has explained that when booking appointments it takes into account a 
number of factors, such as other heating sources available to its customer, customer 
vulnerabilities, and emergencies. Appointments are then prioritised accordingly. Its said that 
Mr R had an alternative source of heating. It also says that if its unable to provide an 
appointment within a reasonable timescale it looks at alternative arrangements such as 
inviting its customer to source their own engineer, or providing heaters. In Mr Rs case, this 
is what it did.
I consider that a wait of three to four weeks for an appointment may be acceptable in some 
circumstances but not in others, and that prioritisation of some customers can lead to delays 
for others. But in Mr Rs case, rather than requiring him to wait for this period of time, BG in 
my view acted fairly and reasonably in allowing him to accelerate a repair by finding his own 
engineer, who it would pay.
I dont consider this to be a case of BG opting out of its agreement with Mr R. It wasnt 
avoiding its responsibilities under Mr Rs contract. It was providing a route by which this 
repair could be achieved more quickly, which I think was fair in the circumstances. I 
acknowledge that Mr R was inconvenienced by this as it required him to source another 
engineer. But BG has provided him with compensation of £54.50 and I think this is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint and I dont require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything other than to pay him £54.50 unless it has 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman