DRN-3179038
The complaint
Ms D says Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk (Savvy) lent to her irresponsibly. 
She says that she struggled to repay the lending due to her financial situation being poor at 
the time. She thinks that Savvy should have spotted this and not lent to her.  
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Savvy provided to Ms D between 
February 2018 and August 2020. Some of the information I have been provided about the 
lending is in the table below. 
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 15/02/2018 £2,000 18 03/12/2018
2 03/12/2018 £2,850 24 10/08/2020
3 10/08/2020 £2,000 15 01/12/2020
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think that Savvy had lent 
irresponsibly for loans 1 and 2. But he thought that it should have been clear that Ms D 
would struggle to repay loan 3 due to the pattern of her borrowing. And so, he thought that 
Savvy shouldnt have approved this loan. 
Ms D, through her representative, didnt want to add anything to what the adjudicator said. 
Savvy didnt agree with what the adjudicator said. It said that he checks it had made showed 
that the lending was likely to be affordable. It also said that Ms S had enough disposable 
income to repay the loans sustainably. Her credit file showed that she was repaying her 
other lending on time, and she was within her credit limits. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms D could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ds complaint in part and have explained why below.
Ms D didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 and 2. Because of this I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont comment on 
this lending in detail. 
But these two loans were part of the borrowing relationship Ms D had with Savvy. And Ive 
looked at the information Savvy gathered about these loans. I do have some concerns about 
what Ive seen and I think this impacts on Savvys decision to approve loan 3. I wont go into 
all of the detail here as both sides are aware of it, but some of the things that Savvy knew 
about Ms D are as follows:
Ms D had a lot of credit card (or similar) borrowing. And she was at her limit for a 
significant amount of this. There was also some indication that she was having 
problems repaying this. 
Ms D also had a significant amount of other unsecured loans. For example, she took 
an unsecured loan with a value of £13,500 around 13 months before she took loan 3. 
She had taken larger loans before each of the other Savvy loans. 
So, servicing this debt wouldve led to significant total monthly repayments. 
So, whilst Ms D did have a reasonable income, and the Savvy loans may have looked 
affordable, I think its also reasonable to say that this significant other debt may have 
impacted her ability to repay the Savvy loans. And Savvy should have looked at loan three 
with this in mind as Ive done. 
Given Ms Ds circumstances, I think that by loan 3 Savvy should reasonably have seen that 
further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Savvy should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided this loan. I say this because:Ms D had been indebted to Savvy for over two and a half years. And she was making 
a commitment for another year. I realise these are longer term agreements, but this 
is still a long time to be using high cost credit. 
Ms Ds first loan was for £2,000, loan 2 was for £2,850 and loan 3 was for £2,000. At 
this point Savvy ought to have known that Ms D was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Overall, I dont think this lending pattern paints a picture of decreasing or well 
managed debt. This is particularly when it is considered alongside the other lending 
that Savvy knew that Ms D had. 
So, Savvy ought to have realised it was more likely than not Ms D was having to 
borrow further, either to repay her other loans or to make ends meet. Despite her 
income, she had, in my view too much debt for this not to be the case.  And that Ms 
Ds indebtedness was unsustainable.
I think that Ms D lost out because Savvy provided loan 3 because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ds indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Ms D borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loan 3 and Savvy should put things right.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Savvy should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not provided loan 3, as Im satisfied it shouldnt have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms D may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms D in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms D would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Savvys liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Savvy shouldnt have given Ms D loan 3.A) Savvy should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms D towards interest, 
fees and charges on this loan, including payments made to a third party where applicable, 
but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Savvy should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms D 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Savvy should pay Ms D the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Ms Ds borrowing for loan 3 means any information recorded about 
them is adverse, so it should remove this loan entirely from Ms Ds credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Savvy to deduct tax from this interest. Savvy should give 
Ms D a certificate showing how much tax Savvy has deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Valour Finance Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman