DRN-4216979
The complaint
Mr M complains The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) withheld his funds after closing his 
accounts in September 2018. And despite many attempts through visiting an RBS branch, 
and making phone calls, he wasnt able to get his funds released until February 2023.
To put things right, Mr M wants compensation for the deprivation of the funds, costs 
reimbursed for travel, the phone calls and having to buy food and drink when visiting the 
branch. He also wants compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
What happened
Following a review, RBS blocked Mr Ms accounts in July 2018. It later notified Mr M of its 
decision to close his accounts in September 2018. Unhappy with this Mr M complained. RBS 
sent Mr M its final response about the account closure in October 2018 and gave him his 
referral rights to bring this complaint to our service.
In that final response, RBS informed Mr M that it was holding £1,503.61 of his funds, and 
these were being withheld at the time of his original request for them. But to claim these 
funds, he should now visit his nearest branch with the required identification documents 
suitable documents were listed in the response.
Mr M says he then made numerous trips to the branch and made similar amounts of calls to 
the relevant RBS department to get his funds released. It appears he then made another 
complaint about this.
RBS sent another complaint response in November 2019. It still didnt uphold his complaint 
about the account closure. But it upheld a complaint point regarding the amount of time Mr M 
spent in the branch while its staff called another department regarding the release of his 
funds. RBS said the matter will be addressed with the relevant department, and this would 
ensure it does better in the future.
RBS also repeated that the outstanding funds in Mr Ms account were unable to be released 
at the time of the original request. However the funds are now available to him. RBS 
reiterated what it said in its response of 2018 about what Mr M needs to do to retrieve them.
Mr M says he made numerous more trips to the branch and made calls to RBS but was still 
unable to get his funds released.
RBS have sent me another complaint response dated January 2022. Mr M appears to have 
complained again in December 2021 about his account closure, access to his funds and no 
response to previous complaints.
RBS said its decision to close the accounts remained the same. It also confirmed the funds 
are still being held are available to Mr M, but it still requires him to submit a funds withdrawal 
from along with the previously requested identification documentation.
Mr M then referred his complaint about the funds not being released to this service. One of 
our Investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. Following our Investigators involvement 
Mr M received his funds - after completing a release of funds form and getting his 
identification documentation counter-signed at branch - in February 2023.
Our Investigator communicated with RBS on what theyd seen provisionally on the 
complaint. After looking at the complaint again, RBS offered to pay Mr M 8% simple interest 
from when they blocked the account up until the funds were released. They also offered 
£300 compensation. Mr M did not accept this. He felt the costs hed incurred by travelling to 
RBS branch, and calling it, had not been considered.
Our Investigator asked Mr M to provide evidence of his travel costs and phone calls. Mr M 
sent them screenshots of online digital receipts of his train travel. He also sent in 
screenshots that he says show he was being charged 35p for every minute to RBS type of 
number. Following this, our Investigator recommended RBS pay Mr M £540.80 as 
compensation.
Mr M felt the amount of £540.80 only considered his train travel costs - and the calls and 
significant distress and inconvenience werent considered.
Following this, our Investigator sent both parties their view on Mr Ms complaint. In summary 
some of the key findings they made were:
- They hadnt seen any evidence RBS had followed up with Mr M regarding the 
release of his funds from October 2018. So there was undue delay in releasing the 
funds by RBS
- RBS offer to pay 8% simple interest on the funds from July 2018, when the account 
was blocked was generous. Thats because it hadnt mitigated for a reasonable 
period for its review period
- RBS offer of compensation of £540.80 was largely for Mr Ms train travel costs. Mr M 
had provided records to support his claims, but some of the days were bank holidays 
 so these would be discounted from any compensation.
Our Investigator took into account there was a closer branch to where Mr M lived to 
that which he travelled to. Because of this, they thought RBS offer was fair as Mr M 
couldve mitigated the costs of travel by going to his local branch
- RBS had said the calls to the numbers Mr M says he was calling it on were free. Our 
Investigator considered what Mr M said about the costs based on his mobile phone 
operators charges, but as theyd not seen evidence of the call charges, they didnt 
think it was fair for RBS to compensate him for any financial loss here
- The amount of time Mr M says he spent in branch on his visits wasnt unreasonable 
nor excessive. This wouldve depended on the time-of-day Mr M visited, and there 
being other customers requiring assistance  so theres nothing RBS couldve done 
to prevent this. So Mr Ms claim for the cost of food and drinks isnt upheld
Mr M did not agree with what our Investigator said. Some of the key points, in summary, that 
he made are:
- The distress and inconvenience hes suffered, which had a significant impact on his 
mental health, werent considered- He should get £562.90 for his travel expenses  and hes unsure if the £540.80 
recommended is for distress and inconvenience too. He also feels the journey he 
made by car on several occasions hasnt been considered
- Had RBS released his funds in the first instance as it should have, he wouldnt have 
incurred the costs of the food and drinks he had to pay for
- He could have done something else with the time he wasted at RBS branches. He 
should not have had to go into the branch that many times to complete the release 
form again and again
- The phone calls were chargeable, and he cant provide evidence as he had a pay 
and go mobile
Our Investigator made a number of points in response, but much of these were repeated 
from earlier responses. But some of the key points our Investigator made were:
- The recommended award of £540.80 was for travel expenses, and distress and 
inconvenience
- The calculation of £540.80 wasnt £562.90 as Mr M had claimed, as the travel 
expenses for bank holidays was discounted from this. RBS confirmed its branches 
were closed on these days
Mr M added that he ought to get compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
suffered especially as this affected his mental health substantively. He also repeated he 
went to a particular RBS branch as he was strictly told to do so by its staff  and he was told 
the other branch belonged to a subsidiary of RBS, so he couldnt go there.
As Mr M didnt agree with what our Investigator said, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. I then sent my provisional decision to both Mr M and RBS. Here is what I said: 
Provisional decision 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning on deciding to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
RBS says it no longer has records of any branch visits Mr M may have made and of any 
phone calls he made as the accounts are closed  and were done so some time ago in 
2018. This is unfortunate, especially as RBS where aware Mr M was complaining.
Where evidence is inconclusive or incomplete, I can reach my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities  that is what I think is most likely to have happened.
Mr M says he has made multiple visits in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021 and 2022 to get his funds 
released. Given he made complaints during this period, and as Im persuaded the funds held 
mattered significantly to him, Im persuaded on balance he did make the branch visits and 
calls he says he did.
So, for reasons that are now unbeknown, given theres no branch or call notes to show why 
there were delays, I think he has been attempting to get his funds since 2018 when he was 
told he got retrieve them.Id also add here that RBS 2018 and 2019 complaint responses both say that he could now 
get his funds. So this gives me some doubt that he most likely did face obstacles in branch -
at least between these date points.
RBS released the funds in February 2023 following our Investigators involvement. Mr M 
shouldnt need our intervention to facilitate such a release after RBS said it would release 
the funds. Given Im persuaded Mr M was endeavouring without success to have his funds 
released from late 2018, Im satisfied RBS should pay him 8% simple interest from when it 
ought to have done this.
This means I think 8% simple interest should be paid from when RBS first told Mr M he can 
have his funds released. I think there should be a week from the final response dated 
19 October 2018 when the interest is applied from. I say that because it would have taken a 
reasonable time for the form and identity process to be completed, and the release 
processed.
Mr M says he should get compensation for all the receipts hes sent in for his train travel 
costs. But I agree that any bank holidays should be discounted from this given it was closed 
on a national bank holiday.
RBS have said there was a branch closer to Mr M than the one he says he went to. Mr M 
says he was told he had to strictly go to this one as the others were subsidiary branches. I 
havent seen any reason or evidence to show why Mr M would opt to travel further than he 
might have had to. So I think its most likely he relied on information given to him, and 
therefore travelled to the slightly further branch. That means I think he should be awarded 
£540.80 for his train travel costs. I note RBS have agreed to this.
Mr M says he also enlisted the help of friends and family to drive him to the branch on 
several occasions. Its possible that if this was the case, it was an act of familial helpfulness 
 normally at no cost. And without compelling evidence, which is highly unlikely given the 
passage of time, I wont be awarding any compensation for this. I also find it curious that 
Mr M only told us about the car journeys when there were discrepancies with the dates he 
said he travelled to the branch.
Mr M has been consistent throughout his various submissions of the impact this matter had 
on him. Hes sent evidence to show what medication he was taking for his deteriorating 
mental health. But this information doesnt show this medication was prescribed to him  so I 
cant place too much weight on this. Nor is there any compelling evidence that RBS actions 
directly affected his state of mind.
But I do accept the length of time hes been pursuing his funds wouldve caused him 
considerable distress, upset and worry  and it caused significant inconvenience given the 
strength of effort required to sort his release of funds out. So taking into account what hes 
said, and what I consider as fair redress, Im planning on awarding a further £500 to address 
this. As Ive said, its most likely Mr M made a high volume of branch visits and calls to get 
his fund released.
Ive also considered any other costs Mr M says he incurred, but Im acutely aware that 
ultimately, he would have to purchase food and drink in any case - albeit at a time and venue 
hed not have preferred to
The deadline I set for responses has now passed. RBS has not replied. Mr M has, hes sent 
in a screenshot of his patient online service which denotes his name and a list of prescribed 
medication he can order. Hes also said he finds the points I made in my provisional decision 
fair. But he has, in summary, made the following arguments: - As he was on a pay and go basis with his mobile phone operator, he is unable to get 
a bill. He understands he cant get reimbursed for his  but finds it strange RBS dont 
have any recordings
- The matter has caused him extensive headaches, chest pain and lots of stress  
which added to his mental health condition 
- RBS never communicated with him when the funds were released in February 2023, 
so he had to check where the funds had come from. This was disrespectful 
- RBS should apologise to him for the distress and inconvenience its actions caused. 
He couldve enjoyed the time lost with his family had RBS done what it should have
- He wonders why the 8% simple interest should not be applied from the date the 
account was blocked till release date
I must now decide this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision. I will of course set out my responses to Mr Ms further points. 
Mr M questions why 8% simple interest hasnt been awarded from the date the account was 
blocked up until settlement. But in my provisional decision I said 8% simple interest should 
be paid from when RBS first told Mr M, he can have his funds released. And that there 
should be a week from the final response dated 19 October 2018 when the interest is 
applied from. I said that because it would have taken RBS a reasonable time for the form 
and identity process to be completed, and the release processed.  
I havent seen any evidence nor reason why I should now think any differently on this point. 
I already considered that Mr M would have made many calls to RBS and my award for the 
inconvenience this caused takes this into account. Mr M wants his phone costs reimbursed. 
But unfortunately, he cant provide any evidence of this, and the mobile phone operators 
webpage shows the call he was making wouldve been free. Without any compelling 
evidence to the contrary I wont be asking RBS to refund the costs Mr M says he incurred. 
I also wont be making any further award for RBS failure to tell Mr M his funds had been 
released. Our Investigator had communicated to Mr M about the funds release, and given 
the strong attention he had on this matter, Im satisfied he wouldve reasonably known where 
the money was from. 
Mr M has shown the medication was prescribed to him through a patients online screenshot. 
But, as I said in my provisional decision, theres not any compelling evidence that RBS 
actions directly affected his state of mind more than which I have considered already. So I 
wont be awarding any further compensation for the distress this matter caused him. 
Mr M wants RBS to apologise to him. Ive upheld his complaint, so I have found that RBS 
have got things wrong. It is now up to its discretion to send Mr M a letter of apology. 
So for all the reasons above, including what I said in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
So, to put things right, I provisionally decide that RBS should:
- Pay Mr M 8% simple interest on the sum of £1,503.61 from 26 October 2018 up until 
it released the funds to him in 2023
- Pay Mr M the sum of £540.80 for his travel costs
- Pay Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should now put things 
right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.  
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman