DRN-2162041
The complaint
Mr R, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that he was given
unsuitable investment advice by a predecessor business of Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
In late 2006 Mr R was advised to invest £10,000. At the time he had around £79,000 on
deposit, in part from an inheritance. He was in his early 50s, owned his own business, had
no dependants and was a higher rate tax payer. He had no investment experience, but it
was documented that he had a balanced attitude to risk. He was advised to invest the
whole £10,000 into a balanced managed fund via an ISA and OEIC, starting in January
2007.
Six months later he was advised to add a further £7,000 to the same fund, to top-up the ISA.
By this time his assets had reduced to around £59K and it was recorded that hed become a
lower rate tax payer. He surrendered all the investments in September 2008 after an
unforeseen change in circumstances.
In 2019 Mr Rs CMC complained to Nationwide that the two recommendations had been
unsuitable for him. This was primarily on the basis that his attitude to risk has been
incorrectly assessed as balanced and the level of risk associated with the high equity
content of the fund hadnt been consistent with his circumstances at the time.
Nationwide didnt agree. It felt that as someone who owned their own business, Mr R
wouldve had an understanding of the concept of risk versus reward and the documentation
supported his desire to take a greater level of risk to achieve his objectives, noting that he
was prepared to take a bit of a flyer. As such, there was no reason to think that even as a
first-time investor Mr R wouldnt have been able to understand and accept a balanced level
of risk.
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached the same conclusion
as Nationwide. The CMC didnt accept this, reiterating its concerns with the level of risk Mr R
had been recommended to take. So, as no agreement could be reached, the matter was
referred to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I felt the complaint should be upheld, 
in part. I felt the second recommendation had resulted in too large a proportion of Mr Rs 
money being placed at the level of risk associated with the balanced managed fund, 
particularly as the evidence suggested that at the time of the second recommendation Mr R 
was in a less favourable financial situation. I said: 
Im less comfortable with the second recommendation. This was made only six months
later and in that short time thered been some material changes in Mr Rs financial
circumstances, indicating that he was in a less favourable financial position.
The amount of money he had on deposit and invested had reduced, as had his income. It
was recorded that he had a significantly lower amount of around £59,000 at this point. He
continued to want £15,000 to be set aside for emergencies, as had been the case at the
point of the initial advice. So, this meant that the additional £7,000 investment resulted in
Mr R having almost 40% of his money invested, and all in a single fund that was heavily
reliant upon equity performance.
I cant see that this second recommendation was suitable for Mr R. I think it shouldve been
recognised that, while the initial advice was justified for the reasons given  that Mr R
understood the level of risk and had the capacity to accept it, this was no longer the case by
the point of the July 2007 advice, given the changes in his circumstances. The second
recommendation should not have carried as much risk as the first.
Mr Rs CMC accepted my provisional decision. 
Nationwide disagreed with my provisional findings. It said, in brief:
It didnt agree with my use of the 40% figure. It assumed Id reached that proportion 
by excluding Mr Rs £15,000 emergency fund, which it wasnt reasonable to do.
Looking at his total funds the proportion of his money invested following the second 
recommendation fell to only 29.1%, leaving Mr R with more than adequate provision. 
Mr R had six months between the two recommendations to reflect on the 
investments. 
It acknowledged that only one fund was used but felt this presented sufficient 
diversity as it was a mixed fund, invested in a wide range of assets.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I note all Nationwides additional points, I remain of the view set out in 
my provisional decision, that it was unsuitable that the second recommendation carried the 
same level of risk as the first.
As noted, Nationwide has highlighted my comments about 40% of Mr Rs money being 
invested. Its correct in its observation that this figure was reached by excluding Mr Rs 
desired emergency fund of £15,000. So, I accept that it may be more reflective of the 
situation to say that 40% of Mr Rs investable money was placed into one fund. 
In any event, I still think that these figures, whether it be 40% of Mrs R investable money or 
29.1% of all his money, illustrate an issue with a lack of diversity. Whether or not the fund 
was of mixed assets, it was nevertheless one fund, with one level of risk associated with it. 
But, as can be seen from the quotation from my provisional decision that Ive included 
above, my primary concern about the second recommendation was that it was investing 
more of Mr Rs money at the same level of risk as had been deemed suitable six months 
earlier. But at the time of the second recommendation I think it was reasonably apparent that 
Mr Rs financial position was no longer as comfortable. The total amount of money he had 
on deposit had reduced, as it seems had his income. 
That being so, I think it was unsuitable to increase the level of Mr Rs exposure to the 
balanced managed fund, and that any further investment would more suitably have been 
made at a lower level of risk  as reflected by my suggested compensation  in a cautious 
environment.
Putting things right
Fair compensationIn assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr R 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice. 
I take the view that Mr R would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr R's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Nationwide do?
To compensate Mr R fairly, Nationwide must:
Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Nationwide should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
July 2007 
ISA top-up 
surrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Nationwide 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr R wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. 
I consider that Mr R's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr R into that position. It does not mean that Mr R 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr R could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Nationwide 
Building Society to pay compensation to Mr R as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman