DRN-2869443
The complaint
Miss D complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA has refused to refund the money 
she paid for an item she didnt receive.
What happened
Miss D ordered a coat from a website on 5 September 2020, and paid for it through her 
PayPal account. On 26 September the seller, S, sent an email to Miss D containing a 
tracking number and a link to the tracking website.  In November Miss D checked the 
tracking and saw the coat had been logged as delivered. But Miss D said it hadnt been 
delivered. 
Miss D contacted S to ask for a refund. Over the next few weeks Miss D had email 
communication back and forth with S. Eventually on 28 December Miss D asked for a refund 
again. The seller told her the coat was at the airport and there was no need to resend a new 
coat. This was the last communication from S. Miss D didnt receive the coat nor did she 
receive a refund so she complained to PayPal.  
PayPal would not refund Miss D. It said S had provided it with the tracking information, which 
confirmed that the item had been delivered. Miss D was unhappy with this outcome and 
brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator said that while PayPal had accepted the sellers proof of delivery it hadnt 
considered the email evidence between S and Miss D fairly and reasonably. The investigator 
concluded the delivery confirmation wasnt accurate and could not be relied upon. She said 
PayPal should refund the money for the coat and pay Miss D £50 compensation. 
PayPal disagreed with this view and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. It said 
the seller had provided valid tracking that showed the item had been delivered, along with a 
copy of the shipping label that was used by S indicating the same address and tracking 
number.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I shall be instructing PayPal to refund the price Miss D paid for the coat.
PayPal is relying on its terms and conditions specifically its Buyer Protection clause Item 
Not Received which says:
Your claim will not qualify for a refund under PayPal Buyer Protection for an Item 
Not Received claim, if: 
The seller has provided proof of delivery. 
If the seller presents evidence that they delivered the goods to you, PayPal may find 
in favour of the seller for an Item Not Received claim even if you claim you did not 
receive the goods.
The seller provided PayPal with tracking information, which on the surface seemed to 
confirm that the item had been delivered. But Miss D has provided evidence of email 
conversations with S which appear to call into question whether the initial tracking 
information can be relied upon. 
On 15 November Miss D wrote to S. She said she ordered on 5 September and was given 
the tracking number which subsequently recorded the item as delivered but she said it hadnt 
been. Miss D said she checked with neighbours and no one had it. She asked S for a 
replacement or to issue a refund. She continued to chase S and received the following 
responses over a few weeks: 
16 November: You can go to the post office and see if it's here
16 November: We have feedback your information with the logistics company, 
please wait a few days for the logistics company to reply. Thank you.
19 November: Ill just check that the address seems to be wrong
24 November: Maybe we match wrong tracking number to you. Please don't worry. 
We are checking for you. We will try our best to help you. Please wait for a few days.
4 December: We will arrange re-delivery for you as soon as possible
5 December: We are so sorry for that. We have sent your package to the wrong 
address, we already resent it to you. Please wait patiently.
28 December: The express company said that the parcel was now at the airport, so 
there was no need to resend it. There is no need to change the express number
PayPal said S provided it with tracking information which confirmed the item had been 
delivered. This was dated 5 October which was before the email communication above. I 
dont dispute PayPal was provided with tracking information or a shipping label. And per the 
terms and conditions this would be evidence of delivery. But the tracking information 
provided doesnt confirm the specific item that was delivered. And the sellers own emails 
appear to contradict their own claim the item was delivered. The last communication said the 
parcel was at the airport having already said the address and tracking number had both 
been incorrect. 
Where the evidence is unclear, disputed or contradictory, I must make my decision based on 
what I believe most likely to be the case. And Im persuaded, based on the vague and 
contradictory emails from the seller, over a number of weeks, that it is likely the item was not 
received. 
Putting things right
 In order to put things right PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA must refund Miss D £29.98. I 
can see Miss D spent a lot of time and energy chasing this up and found the process quite 
stressful so PayPal must pay Miss D £50 as compensation.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA must 
put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman