DRN-4103193
The complaint
Miss M complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) handling of her claim under her 
home emergency policy. 
What happened
Miss M had a tenanted property and contacted BG as there were issues with the boiler. BG 
sent an engineer. Miss Ms tenant said that during the visit, the engineer asked her to go to 
the shops to buy parts for the repair, which she did. 
Miss M said that the engineer then left having purported to fix the issue. But the issue hadnt 
been fixed. Miss M contacted BG to raise a complaint and to tell it that the engineer had 
asked the tenant to buy parts, which wasnt the tenants responsibility. Miss M also asked BG 
to ensure that the same engineer wasnt re-sent.
BG apologised for this and explained that this shouldnt have happened. It booked for 
another engineer visit. When the engineer re-attended, it was the same engineer who had 
previously attended. So, Miss M raised a further complaint. 
In its final response, BG apologised for its handling of the claim. It reimbursed Miss M £11 
for the items that had been purchased, it waivered the call out charge of £60 and also 
offered a gesture of goodwill of £70. 
Miss M remained unhappy with this outcome and as she had been given her referral rights, 
referred a complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and 
thought it should be upheld. He said that the claim handling was poor, that Miss M would 
have been caused distress and inconvenience. And BG ought to increase the level of 
compensation by a further £50, making a total of £120. 
Miss M accepted the view, BG did not. It said that it had accepted that there were poor 
service issues, but that it had offered around £130 in compensation, this was made up of 
£60 waiver of the excess fee and £70 goodwill gesture, which was fair. It said that if it paid a 
further £50, this would take the level of compensation to £180, which wasnt fair. It also 
reimbursed Miss M the £11 for the items purchased. So, it asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint, and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 6 April 2023 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 4 
May 2023. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded not to uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be 
a disappointment to Miss M, but I hope my provisional findings explain why I think this is fair. 
I have considered all the comments from both parties. I think the main issue of this complaint 
is whether the offer of compensation from BG is fair, given the impact on Miss M. 
BG accepted that there were poor service issues during the claim. These included Miss Ms 
tenant having to purchase items, on the instruction of its engineer, while the engineer 
remained at the property. It also meant that the tenant was inconvenienced as I understand 
they worked from home. 
The further error that was made and BG accept, was for BG to have re-sent the same 
engineer to the property the second time, given that the boiler issues persisted. Miss M also 
said that she had to take some effort in chasing BG for a resolution.
Im pleased to see that BG has recognised the errors in service that it made. I now need to 
consider the actual impact of those errors on Miss M. And in particular the level of 
compensation offered by BG and whether, this was fair in the circumstances. 
I note that Miss M said that the property was a tenanted property. And that it was her tenant 
who ultimately was affected by the poor service. I should also point out that the home 
emergency policy was between Miss M and BG. So, when we look at compensation, we look 
at the parties to the policy, namely Miss M and BG. As the tenant isnt a party to the policy 
compensation wouldnt be awarded to them. Further, when looking at the impact, the impact 
is assessed on the direct impact on Miss M and not the tenant. 
Whilst I accept that there were service issues and that Miss M was deeply unimpressed with 
how BG handled her claim, I cant agree that the direct impact on Miss M was more than just 
minimal. I must also say any claim of this nature, is going to involve a homeowner in some 
inconvenience. But here I think the inconvenience that Miss M directly suffered from was 
having to chase BG. Something, Im pleased that BG has recognised. 
Turning to the compensation offered by BG. It reimbursed Miss M the cost of the items 
purchased at £11. It also waivered the call out charge of £60. I note from the policy that each 
call out is chargeable and I think the waiver of the excess charge was fair in the 
circumstances, especially as the engineer didnt fix the issue on the first occasion. 
BG also offered £70 as a gesture of goodwill. This it said was in recognition of the poor 
service. As Ive mentioned before, I dont think the impact on Miss M was more than just 
minimal and would justify an award of £120 compensation. I understand that Miss M was 
hoping for more compensation for the trouble and upset caused. But Ive taken all of her 
detailed comments into account in reaching my decision and when assessing the impact on 
her directly. Given the amount currently offered by BG, which I think is fair and reasonable, I 
wont be recommending that the offer is further increased. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss M said that although she was disappointed with the outcome, she accepted the 
provisional decision. She understood that the decision was based on facts but believed that 
it was a unique situation, that our service didnt deal with on a daily basis, as it couldve been 
much more serious. BG had nothing further to add to the provisional decision. 
I do understand that the outcome is not as Miss W wouldve liked, but Ive considered all 
comments made by both parties and I think that the outcome reached is both fair and 
reasonable. For these reasons, my final decision will be the same as my provisional 
decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman