DRN-2564521
The complaint
Mr S complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) unfairly 
declined a claim for legal expenses insurance (LEI).
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties so Ive summarised events.
In 2011 Mr S suffered a workplace accident. He appointed Company A (a firm of 
solicitors) to make a personal injury claim against his employer.
Mr S believes Company A handled this claim negligently and looked to take legal 
action against it using his LEI cover.
DAS considered the claim and one of its panel solicitors (Company B) determined it 
didnt have required prospects of success, so it declined the claim. DAS also outlined 
it would be willing to reconsider if Mr S was able to provide a legal opinion that 
showed he did have prospects of success. It also offered £250 for poor 
communication and complaint handling.
Mr S disagreed, saying Company B had relied on incorrect medical evidence and 
hadnt handled the claim as it should have.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. He outlined he would consider 
whether DAS fulfilled its obligations when handling the claim. He said DAS was able 
to rely on legal experts when assessing a claim, and that Company Bs report 
outlined it would be very difficult to say hed previously been given negligent advice in 
the past by Company A.
The investigator also said DAS offer to reconsider the claim in light of a legal opinion 
showing prospects of success was fair, but one hadnt been provided so it didnt 
need to reconsider. He also said its offer to pay £250 was fair in the circumstances 
for its handling across the claim.
Mr S provided a timeline and response outlining why he disagreed and why 
Company B had acted negligently. Mr S has also said he doesnt think DAS 
communicated with him in an unsatisfactory way, having replied quickly to him and 
without delay on many occasions.
This didnt change our investigators mind, and he reiterated that he would expect to 
see a legal opinion, not just Mr S opinion, that showed his claim had prospects of 
success. Mr S still disagreed so the complaint was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
As our investigator has previously outlined, our role is to consider DAS handling of this claim 
as the insurer. I am not considering Company Bs (solicitors) handling of the legal claim or 
the quality of advice it provided as this falls outside of the scope of this service.
Mr S sought to make a claim under his LEI cover. His policy says that a claim must have 
reasonable prospects of success which it defines as at least 51% and which would recover 
losses or damages. 
This means if Mr S claim against Company A was shown to have at least 51% or greater 
prospects of success and would recover his losses or damages then the claim should be 
covered (subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy).
In determining whether Mr S claim has reasonable prospects, DAS sought the opinion of 
Company B. It explained to DAS that in its legal opinion, the claim had less than 50% 
prospect of success. Specifically it said it would be extremely difficult to say the advice 
given to the insured was negligent in the circumstances. The solicitors went on to explain 
how they reached this conclusion.
DAS is entitled to rely on the legal advice it is provided with  unless that advice is obviously 
wrong. But from what Ive seen it was a reasoned legal opinion from a qualified individual. 
So Im satisfied DAS acted reasonably in relying on its advice. 
DAS has offered Mr S the opportunity to provide opposing opinion, and said it would 
reconsider the matter if he did this. I think this was fair in the circumstances. And as Mr S 
hasnt provided any legal opinion to this service or to DAS that suggests otherwise, I 
wouldnt expect it to change its mind. 
DAS said it would offer £250 for mistakes related to its handling of the claim and because it 
said it shouldve registered Mr S complaint earlier than it did. Ive taken on board these 
points, and in light of Mr S comments about being satisfied with its communication 
throughout the claim I see no reason to increase this sum.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman