DRN-1428078
 
The complaint
Mrs H says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), irresponsibly lent to 
her. Mrs H says she was using other short-term credit providers and the lending was 
unaffordable for her.                          
What happened
This complaint is about six short-term loans Mr Lender provided to Mrs H between April 
2013 and November 2014. Mrs Hs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment Deferrals
1 14/04/2013 26/04/2013 1 £300.00    £352.50  
2 13/05/2013 31/05/2013 1 £500.00    £650.00  
3 01/06/2013 23/12/2013 1 £550.00    £715.00 6
4 10/01/2014 31/01/2014 1 £500.00    £650.00  
5 19/04/2104 31/07/2014 1 £900.00 £1,035.00 3
6 17/11/2014 31/03/2015 6 £1,000.00    £416.66  
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Hs complaint and thought the loans from loan three 
onwards shouldnt have been given as the repayment for loan three was a significant 
proportion of Mrs Hs income and from loan four it looked like Mrs H was becoming 
persistently reliant on this type of lending. 
Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicator but did offer to uphold loans three and five. We put 
the offer to Mrs H, but she didnt want to accept it. She reiterated the lending was 
unaffordable for her and that she was using other short-term credit providers at the same 
time.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mrs H could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mrs H didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one and two shouldnt be 
upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mrs H had with Mr Lender. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans she took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Hs complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why. I agree with the adjudicator that loan three shouldnt have been given to Mrs H. I say this 
because Mrs H returned for further borrowing at loan three the day after loan two was 
repaid. It was for a slightly higher amount. Such a quick return for additional borrowing could 
potentially be an indication that a consumer may be having problems managing their money. 
And I note the highest repayment for this loan was £715 which was a significant proportion 
of Mrs Hs stated net income of £1,800. 
So, I think there was a very real risk that Mrs H would struggle to sustainably make the 
repayment which in fact proved to be the case as she deferred repayment of the capital six 
times by making interest only payments. Each deferral incurred additional fees and interest 
payments totalling £172 each time. In total Mrs H repaid £1,190, more than double the 
amount borrowed.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Mrs H, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Hs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan four. I say this because:
At this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Mrs H was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Mrs H had taken out four loans within eight months and also 
bearing in mind Mrs H had deferred repayment of loan three six times. So, Mr Lender 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs H was having to borrow further 
to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and Mrs Hs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
 
Mrs Hs first loan was for £300 and loan loan four was for £500 (and continued to 
increase thereafter).  At this point Mr Lender ought to have known that Mrs H was not 
likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing 
need. 
 
Mrs H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Mr Lender. Loan six 
was taken out 19 months after Mrs Hs first. And it was for the largest amount 
borrowed. Mrs H had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mr 
Lender over an extended period.
 
I think that Mrs H lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing from loan four 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Hs indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
 
the number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mrs Hs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So, like the adjudicator Im also upholding the complaint about loans three to six and Mr 
Lender should put things right.Putting things right  what Mr Lender needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mrs H paid on three to six;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loan three from Mrs Hs credit file;
 
the number of loans taken from loan four onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans three to six should be removed 
from Mrs Hs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mrs Hs complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman