DRN-2902121
The complaint
Mrs K has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) lent to her. She says she 
was indebted and the interest rate on the loan was too high.
What happened
Mrs K was lent a loan in March 2019, the loan was for £450 with 18 monthly instalment 
payments of £102.85. Theres still a balance outstanding on the loan.
When Mrs K complained to L2G it didnt uphold her complaint and so she referred it to this 
service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator thought L2G did 
enough before agreeing to lend and she didnt think it was wrong to lend.
Mrs K disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
L2G needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs K could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that L2G should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to say that L2G was required to establish whether 
Mrs K could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. I have taken these factors into account when 
thinking about Mrs Ks complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the loan agreement which Mrs K signed, and I can see that the 
agreement clearly states, how much Mrs K was being lent, and what the charge for the credit 
would be. As Mrs K signed the agreement, Im satisfied that she should have been aware of 
the interest on the loan and how much she was due to repay at the time.
Ive thought about the checks L2G carried out before lending and I think given the term of 
the loan and the loan amount, the checks went far enough. Looking at the results of those 
checks, I cant see that there was anything within the checks that should have concerned 
L2G about Mrs Ks ability to repay the loan or to have taken its check further.
Mrs K has said she was indebted and couldnt afford the loan but that wasnt what L2G saw 
from its proportionate checks and so considering the relevant factors, L2G wasnt wrong to 
lend.
I appreciate my findings will likely disappoint Mrs K but I hope my explanation goes 
someway to explain why I reached these conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman