DRN-4167142
The complaint
Mr C complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) irresponsibly granted him  
an interest free loan he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In December 2021 Mr C arranged a purchase with the benefit of an interest free fixed sum 
loan agreement. Under the terms of the agreement Mr C was required to pay a deposit of 
£69.91 followed by one payment of £104.89 and then five monthly repayments of £104.85. 
Mr C says that Omni didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it would 
have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Omni didnt agree. It said it carried out a 
thorough assessment which included checks that were fair and proportionate. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Omni didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
As Mr C didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Omni will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think Omni gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information from Mr C about his ability to repay. I say this because it took note of the 
information he gave on his application and completed a credit check. On his application Mr C 
had said he earned a gross annual income of £28,500 and lived at home with his parents. 
He also said he paid £120 each month by way of rent. The credit check showed that Mr C 
owed around £10,000 on existing credit cards. But there was nothing to suggest any recent 
issues with obtaining or managing credit, with no defaults or other adverse markings against 
him. Based on the checks Ive seen, I think Omni took reasonable and proportionate steps to 
satisfy itself that Mr C would be able to repay the loan.
However, just because I think Omni carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically 
mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the available evidence and 
information showed. 
Having reviewed the information and evidence Omni gathered, Im satisfied that the checks 
that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be affordable to Mr C. I say 
this given that the information Omni obtained about his existing credit appears to have been 
reasonably comprehensive in view of the size and duration of the loan. Whilst it showed 
Mr C had used up around 90% of the credit available to him at that time, his monthly net 
income of around £1,900 looks to have been enough for him to sustainably meet the monthly 
repayments required under the agreement. 
Mr C told us about another loan, taken out in April 2021, which Omni wasnt aware of at the 
time, requiring monthly repayments of £342. Mr C has pointed out that Omni didnt consider 
this loan before granting him the new loan he was applying for. But I dont consider this is 
something I could expect Omni to have been aware of, particularly if it had no way of 
knowing about it from the proportionate searches it carried out at the time. In any event, 
based on what Ive seen about Mr Cs typical monthly expenditure, he would still be able to 
sustainably meet all his credit repayments, plus his household expenses contribution, and be 
left with enough disposable income.
Mr C provided us with three months of bank statements from before he arranged the loan. 
Mr C appeared to be managing his finances well, occasionally making use of his overdraft 
before he was paid. Ive noticed that he took out some additional borrowing in September 
and October 2021. I havent seen evidence that this showed up in the credit check Omni 
carried out. But even if it had, whilst it would be fair to say that Mr C was taking out an 
increasingly greater level of borrowing, I dont think at this point the loan from Omni was 
likely to be unsustainable.
In response to our adjudicators view, Mr C has provided us with further bank statements 
which I have also considered. I see this includes evidence of further borrowing both before 
and after the loan was taken out. Although I am grateful for the additional information, in 
reaching my decision I am principally considering the issue of whether Omni acted fairly in 
granting Mr C this credit when it did, based on information available to it at the time. And 
whilst I can see additional evidence to suggest that Mr C was borrowing more and his 
financial situation may have been beginning to deteriorate, I wouldnt reasonably expect this 
to be information that Omni would have been aware of at the time it made its lending 
decision. 
It follows that I dont think that taking on the monthly payments required under the 
agreement could be considered to be unaffordable at the time Mr C applied for the loan. I 
therefore dont think Omni acted unfairly in approving the finance application.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman