DRN-3188302
The complaint
Ms M and Mr S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the 
claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to 
a solar panel system they says were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Ms M and Mr S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In October 2018, Ms M and Mr S was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Ms M and Mr S decided to purchase the system 
and finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In November 2020 the CMC made a claim on Ms M and Mr Ss behalf under section 75 of 
the Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Ms M and Mr S to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Ms M and Mr S or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Ms M and Mr S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
Ms M and Mr S were told by the sales agent that the system would be self-funding 
and agreed to proceed with the purchase on that basis. 
Ms M and Mr S were not given the chance to read the information contained on the 
salesmans laptop / tablet before signing. 
Ms M and Mr S deny receiving a copy of the quotation following the meeting.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Ms M and Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Ms M and Mr S could claim 
against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the 
same way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Ms M and 
Mr S and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Ms M and Mr Ss recollection of the sale.
The representative continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central 
part of the sales process with P when Ms M and Mr S agreed to enter into the contract for 
the system. I have carefully considered the points made by the representative along with 
those made by Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the 
quotation did form a central part of the sales process when Ms M and Mr S agreed to enter 
into the contract.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
Im satisfied that the quote provided to Ms M and Mr S makes it clear that the cost of the 
system is £9,712.50. This is supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash 
price of the system was £9,712.50. The total amount of credit is £9,600.00 and goes on to 
show that the total amount payable would be £13,846.50.And as the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made clear that although the cost of the system was £9,712.50, it would cost 
Ms M and Mr S more than this as they had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan.
FIT payments
Ms M and Mr S have alleged that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and energy savings. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P and considered whether this supports what Ms M and Mr S have 
said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Ms M and Mr S could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Ms M and Mr S could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £217.35.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Ms M and Mr S could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £240.02 and the combined income and 
savings in year one is shown as £457.37. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months this is the 
length of the loan that Ms M and Mr S entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £115.97 (slightly more than the actual 
repayments shown on the loan agreement). For each year of the 10-year loan it shows the 
expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months and 
subtracts the illustrative monthly loan repayment of £115.97, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the benefits Ms M and Mr S could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments and energy savings, as well as their expected contractual 
monthly loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the benefits 
to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall benefits they could 
expect to receive would not be sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments at any time 
during the loan term. Therefore, Im not satisfied that they were told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the benefits.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Ms M and Mr S that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected benefits and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Ms M and Mr S was told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a period of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by the end of year 19 the overall benefits that 
Ms M and Mr S could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable 
under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Ms M and Mr S that the system would pay for 
itself by the end of year 19, as supported by the table above. 
The graph below also makes it clear that there will be a shortfall during the first ten years, 
which will not be recouped until almost 19 years after installation.
If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to 
enter into the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Ms M and Mr S. The quote says the system is expected to produce 
3,554 kWh per year. The MCS certificate sets out that the system is expected to produce 
3,014 kWh per year.
I have looked at Ms M and Mr Ss FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, 
has generated electricity in line with those estimates. So, Im satisfied that the system is 
performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2018 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why they havent been receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2017. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Ms M and 
Mr S couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the 
returns may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that 
this was due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Ms M and Mr S 
entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Ms M and 
Mr S to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms M and Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman