DRN-3815227
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost after she fell victim to 
an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here, 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Ms C saw an item for sale on a well-known social media online marketplace, that she was 
interested in buying. She contacted the seller, by way of messages, and asked if the item 
was still available. Ms C has said she believed the seller to be legitimate, as it had good 
reviews, she could see it was followed by mutual friends and the price the item was being 
sold for seemed reasonable.
 
Believing everything to be genuine, on 2 March 2022, Ms C went ahead and made a 
payment for £100 to the bank details provided by the seller. But after making the payment, 
the seller told Ms C that it hadnt received the payment. The seller told her that shed need to 
make the payment again, but that the original payment would be returned to her. Ms C was 
also told at this point, that the seller would send her a complimentary pair of earphones and 
provide a discount on her next order.
Still believing things to be genuine, Ms C went ahead and made a further payment for £100. 
But over the course of the next few hours and into the following day, the seller continued to 
maintain that payments hadnt been received and persuaded Ms C to make further 
payments, for increasing amounts. Which she was told needed to be made, in order for her 
to get a refund. Ms C continued to make the payments as requested, but unknown to her at 
the time she was dealing with a fraudster and sending her money to accounts the fraudster 
controlled.
In total Ms C sent seven payments, totalling £4,600, to the fraudster. A breakdown of these 
payments is listed below:
2 March 2022 (12:38am) £100
2 March 2022 (2:39pm) £100
2 March 2022 (4:21pm) £200
2 March 2022 (4:41pm) £600
2 March 2022 (5:06pm) £1,200
2 March 2022 (5:38pm) £1,200
3 March 2022 (6:39pm) £1,200
On 4 March 2022, seemingly in a bid to tempt her into making further payments, the 
fraudsters did return £600 to Ms C. But also on 4 March 2022, Ms C began a conversation 
with Monzo through its online chat function and asked about refund policies. It was during 
these conversations with Monzo, that it came to light Ms C had been the victim of a scam.
Ms C has told us that after shed made the first of the £1,200 payments she made, shed 
considered not making any further transactions. But despite these concerns, she continued 
to make payments as she wanted to get her money back. She added that she recognised 
the scammer wasnt answering her questions properly, but in her frustration shes said she 
was trying to do whatever it took to get her money back.
Ms C raised the matter with Monzo. It has committed to follow the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code (although it isnt a signatory), which requires 
firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. Monzo says one or more of those exceptions applies in 
this case.
Monzo issued its final response to Ms C on 29 March 2022, not upholding her complaint. In 
summary it said it had complied with its regulatory obligations. It added that it hadnt been 
able to recover the money Ms C lost and it didnt feel Ms C had taken reasonable steps to 
check who she was paying and that it had given several warnings. 
Unhappy with Monzos response, Ms C then brought her complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In 
summary, in relation to the first payment Ms C made, our investigator didnt think Monzo had 
established that it shouldnt reimburse Ms C, under the provisions of the CRM code, and as 
such it should refund Ms C the £100, along with interest.
In relation to the remaining payments Ms C made. Our investigator didnt think Ms C had a 
reasonable basis for believing she was interacting with a legitimate company. He thought 
there was enough going on, that Ms C should have taken further steps before she made 
further payments.  And so he thought she should be held partially liable.
 
But our investigator also concluded that Monzo missed an opportunity to identify the 
payments Ms C made presented an APP scam risk. Our investigator thought, at the point   
Ms C made the first of the £1,200 payments (at 5:06pm on 2 March 2022), there was 
enough going on to have alerted Monzo to the potential that Ms C might have been at risk of 
financial harm. He added that if Monzo had contacted Ms C at this point, its likely the spell 
would have been broken. 
In view of this, our investigator thought Ms C and Monzo should share liability for this 
payment for £1,200 and for the two subsequent payments of £1,200 that Ms C went on to 
make. Our investigator recommended Monzo should refund 50% of the loss of these 
payments, along with interest.
Ms C agreed with our investigators opinion, but Monzo didnt. As agreement couldnt be 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points, I have 
read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator, Ill explain why.
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Im satisfied Monzo should have refunded Ms C the 
money she lost, for the first payment for £100 she made. I am not persuaded any of the 
permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case. Ms C was 
using a recognised marketplace and could see the seller had good reviews and it seemed 
was being followed by mutual friends. Ms C didnt know she was being scammed and I think its reasonable and proportionate for her to have trusted what she saw, prior to making this 
first payment for £100.
Unfortunately, for the payments that followed I think the evidence suggests Ms C didnt have 
a reasonable basis for believing she was dealing with a legitimate financial business when 
she made the transfers. 
I think Ms C ought to have had concerns when the fraudsters first told her that they hadnt 
received her payment and that theyd need a further payment before a refund was issued. 
They were also offering Ms C a free pair of earphones (which based on market value were 
worth as much, or more, than the item she was intending to purchase) if she made the 
further payment. Im mindful that these things on their own may not have been enough to 
have prevented Ms C from proceeding to make the payments. But taken collectively, along 
with Ms C recognising herself that the fraudsters werent answering her questions properly, I 
think there was enough going on for her to have questioned what she was being asked to 
do. I think it ought to have seemed unusual for a legitimate seller to be asking for further 
payments or offering goods for free. 
I think there were sufficient unusual factors here that Ms C ought to have acted far more 
cautiously than she did. Im not persuaded, therefore, that from the point Ms C was making 
the second payment to the fraudsters (of £100 on 2 March 2022 at 2:39pm) that she had a 
reasonable basis for believing she was making a payment for legitimate goods or to a 
legitimate company. I think this is supported, at least in part, by Ms Cs own testimony to us, 
where she honestly recognised that at the point she was making the first payment for £1,200 
she considered not making any further payments, but says she was driven to in the hope of 
getting her money back. Overall, Im persuaded Ms C is, at least in part, liable for the money 
she lost. 
Considering this Monzo isnt required to provide Ms C with a full refund under the CRM 
Code, for the payments that followed the first payment she made. 
Should Monzo have done more to protect Ms C? 
In addition to its responsibilities under the CRM Code, when Ms C made the payments, 
Monzo should fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual 
transactions or other signs that might indicate that she was at risk of fraud (among other 
things).
In this case, I need to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Ms C, when Ms C made transfers to a fraudster and when she reported the fraud, or whether 
it should have done more than it did.
In making the payments through her mobile banking Im satisfied Ms C authorised the 
transactions. Because of this, Monzo had an obligation to follow her instruction. But there 
are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding the transfers - as a matter of good practice Monzo shouldve 
been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. 
So, Ive thought about whether the transfers Ms C made were out of character and unusual. 
To decide this, Ive reviewed the activity on Ms Cs account statements, from which the 
payments were made, for the months leading up to the scam. This is often a finely balanced 
matter, and Monzo has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect 
unusual activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. On balance, I cant fairly say that the first four transactions Ms C made were so unusual or 
suspicious in comparison to her usual account activity, that they ought to have alerted 
Monzo that Ms C may have been at risk of financial harm. But at the point, on 2 March 2022 
(at 5:06pm), when Ms C makes a payment for £1,200, Im persuaded that a pattern of 
payments has begun to emerge that I think ought to have caused Monzo to be concerned 
that Ms C might have been at risk of financial harm. I say that as, at this point, Ms C has 
made multiple payments in quick succession, for increasing amounts, to new/recently set up 
payees.
Payments of an increasing value, over a short period of time, to a new payee (as was the 
case here), can often be typical hallmarks of a scam. As such, I find this payment was 
unusual and uncharacteristic and Monzos systems ought to have triggered an alert and the 
payment/s paused pending further intervention. I agree with our investigator, that if Monzo 
had intervened then its more likely than not Ms C would have explained what she was 
doing. I think it would have come to light that Ms C had been told she needed to make 
further payments, of increasing amounts, in order to get a refund. I think what she was being 
asked to do would have been of concern to Monzo and it would have sounded very much 
like a scam. So much so, that I think it would have persuaded Ms C not to continue with the 
payments, especially given that at this point Ms C had her own concerns.
Therefore I think, from this point, Monzo could have prevented Ms C from making this and 
the subsequent payments, preventing her losses from this point. For this reason I think 
Monzo is also, at least in part, liable for the money Ms C has lost.
Overall, I consider Monzo could have prevented Ms C from making some of the payments 
she did and so, along with refunding 100% of the first payment Ms C made (for £100), it 
should also refund 50% of Ms Cs loss, from the point she made the first payment for £1,200 
(on 2 March 2022 at 5:06pm), along with paying interest.
Recovery 
Ive also considered whether Monzo could have done more to try to recover the money once 
it had been told of the scam. Wed expect a business to take reasonable steps to try to 
recover the money from the bank it was sent to. Monzo did try and recover the funds Ms C 
had made, but unfortunately no funds remained. Im satisfied Monzo didnt miss an 
opportunity to recover the money Ms C lost.
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Monzo Bank Ltd should now;
- Refund Ms C the full amount of the first payment she made to the scammer (being 
£100).
- Pay 8% interest on this amount, from the date Ms Cs claim was declined under the 
CRM Code, until the date of settlement.
- Refund Ms C 50% of her loss, from and including the payment for £1,200 she made 
to the fraudster on 2 March 2022 at 5:06pm (being 50% of £3,600).
- Pay interest on the 50% refund, from the date of transactions to the date of 
settlement.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd in part. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman