DRN-3162970
The complaint
Mr G complains that he was unable to sell his shares through his investment broker IG 
Market Limited (IG).
What happened
Mr G held shares in a company I shall refer to as Company A trading on the Nasdaq stock 
market (Nasdaq). On 5 April 2021 Mr G attempted to sell his shares in Company A via IGs 
platform. Trading on Nasdaq is usually between 14:30 and 21:00 UK time but investors are 
able to trade on the pre-market prior to the Nasdaq opening. It was on the pre-market that 
Mr G intended to sell his shares, however he made several attempts to place a sell order but 
each one was rejected. 
Mr G says he tried contacting IG via its online chat function, but it wasnt working. He also 
searched on IGs website for advice on how to sell on the pre-market but couldnt find 
anything to help. At around 14:33 Mr G was able to sell his shares in Company A, but he 
says he did so for around $1,200 less than he could have if hed been able to place his order 
in the pre-market. 
IG looked into Mr Gs complaint but didnt uphold it. IG said the rejections were not due to a 
fault with its platform. Instead the rejections were caused by Mr G using the wrong order 
parameters. It said there are several markets marked as all sessions, meaning that online 
trading is available in the pre and post-market sessions of trading. When Mr G selected his 
order type he was given an expiry drop-down to select, which included a range of options to 
choose from. IG explained that the option he needed to select to sell his shares in Company 
A during the pre-market was Day (All Sessions). As Mr G placed his sell orders in the pre-
market but didnt select this option, his orders were rejected. IG explained it makes it clear in 
its customer agreement that the onus is on the investor to understand how orders on the 
platform operate and so it didnt think it was responsible for any loss Mr G suffered as a 
result of not being able to sell in the pre-market. 
IG also considered Mr Gs point regarding the chat function on its website not working. It 
said the first chat Mr G attempted at 13:08 was terminated from his side after a number of 
minutes in the queue and the second at 16:37 was terminated by IGs agent after not 
receiving a reply from Mr G. So it didnt agree that its web chat service was not working.
Mr G wasnt happy with the response he received from IG, so he referred his complaint to 
this service for an independent review.
One of investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld. In short, 
he said:
He agreed with IG that the reason the sale orders failed were due to Mr Gs wrong 
order parameters.
IGs customer agreement made it clear Mr G was responsible for understanding how 
placing orders worked and that it wouldnt be responsible for any loss a result of Mr 
Gs inability to place an order.
Mr G could have placed his order by telephone.
Hed seen evidence of the web chat conversations and noted there was no 
interaction with an IG agent during the first two chats. But he had seen evidence of a 
third chat at 16:53 in which Mr G spoke with an IG agent until 17:32. The investigator 
said during this chat Mr G never mentioned having trouble speaking to an agent over 
web chat and so he was satisfied there was no issue with IGs web chat function.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators assessment. He said IGs system asks for an email 
address and if the same email address registered to the account isnt used, IG does not 
store or allocate the chat to an investors account. Mr G said he wasnt able to log the 
technical issues with an IG agent at the time as the web chat function wasnt working. He 
also said that he doesnt have the option to use telephone dealing for his account.
As no agreement could be reached, Mr G asked for an ombudsman to reach a decision on 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Gs frustration in not understanding why his sell orders werent 
accepted during the pre-market, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold IG responsible for 
this. As the investigator explained, IGs customer agreement sets out the relationship 
between IG and its customers and the service it provides. Section four of the customer 
agreement is regarding IGs share dealing service and explains:
(9) We may, at our absolute discretion, make available to you Orders. Not all
Orders are available on all Instruments or Underlying Markets and not all Orders
are available on all Electronic Trading Services. Orders may operate differently
depending on the third party that we send your Order to.
(10) By using such Orders, you expressly acknowledge and agree that it is your
responsibility to understand how an Order operates before you place any such
Order with us and that you will not place an Order unless you fully understand the
terms and conditions attached to such Order. Details about how Orders work are
available from our dealers on request.
Its clear from the above that orders may operate differently and ultimately, its Mr Gs 
responsibility to understand how to place an order in such circumstances. Mr G says he 
searched IGs website for advice but couldnt find anything which helped. Ive also looked on 
the website and whilst I agree there arent any step-by-step instructions on which 
parameters to select in the drop-downs, IGs website does have a page called How to trade 
out of hours: pre-market and post-market which is helpful. On this page IG explains that its 
customers can open a share dealing account to invest in shares out of hours with our All 
Sessions stock offering on more than 70 US shares and so I think this makes it clear that 
any sale order in the pre-market would need to be done by way of an all sessions selection. 
IG has provided screenshots of the drop-down options for expiry Mr G would have been 
provided with at the time of attempting his sale order. One of the options provided was Day 
(All Sessions) which came with the following explanation:
Orders are good until the end of the trading day, which includes the US sessions 
pre-market, core exchange and post-market.I think it ought to have been clear to Mr G from the above explanation that this was the 
correct drop-down option to select for his sale order in the pre-market. However, I can see 
from the screen shots Mr G provided that he selected the Day option instead. So whilst its 
unfortunate that Mr G suffered a loss due to his inability to sell in the pre-market, I dont think 
IG are at fault.
With regards to IGs web chat function, the screen shots provided by Mr G only show that he 
had had web chat tabs open and dont show the content of the chat. I understand Mr G 
suggests there is an issue with storing web chats when a different email address is used 
than the one registered with an IG account, however IG has been able to provide transcripts 
for all three web chats and these dont suggest there was any error with the web chat 
function. Even if I was to find that there was an error with the web chat function I would still 
have expected Mr G to have contacted IG by telephone if it was important that he placed his 
sale of shares in Company A in the pre-market. I understand Mr G says he doesnt have the 
option to use telephone dealing for his account. Looking at IGs customer agreement, it 
would suggest that Mr G did have the option to sell his shares in Company A over the 
phone. Section 15 is in regard to communications and explains:
(1) An Instruction to Deal must be made by you, or on your behalf: orally, by 
telephone; via one of our Electronic Trading Services; or in such other manner as we 
may specify from time to time. If your usual mode of communicating with us is 
unavailable for any reason, you should attempt to use one of the other modes of 
acceptable communication specified above. For example, if you usually issue 
Instructions to Deal via one of our Electronic Trading Services, but for some reason 
our Electronic Trading Service is not in operation, you should contact us via the 
telephone to issue Instructions to Deal. 
However, even if for some reason Mr G couldnt place his sale order over the phone, I still 
think he could have gotten the advice over the phone needed to place the order in the pre-
market himself online. But it doesnt appear that Mr G attempted to mitigate his loss in this 
way. 
So taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied that IG hasnt acted unfairly and I dont 
hold it responsible for the loss Mr G suffered.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against IG Markets Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman