DRN-2089003
The complaint
Miss W complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited have unfairly 
declined her claim made on her pet insurance policy. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief summary of key events here. Miss W had pet insurance for her dog D which was 
provided by Red Sands. The policy year relevant to this complaint started on 20 May 2019.
In June 2019 Miss W submitted a claim to Red Sands. The claim form recorded that the 
diagnosis of the condition was Lethargy  Post Whelping and the value of the claim was 
around £186, this included the treatment, medication and a radiological examination.
Red Sands declined the claim. In doing so they relied on a policy term which related to 
cosmetic, elective, routine or preventative treatments and listed several excluded examples 
which included whelping. Miss W didnt think her claim had been fairly declined and 
complained. She says there isnt evidence to show that Ds illness was linked to whelping. 
Ultimately, when Red Sands maintained their position the complaint was referred to our 
service.
One of our investigators thought the complaint should be upheld, he didnt think that term 
had been fairly applied. So Red Sands had another look. They made reference to two further 
policy terms that they felt were applicable. Our investigator considered what Red Sands had 
said, but still didnt think the claim had been fairly declined. He recommended that Red 
Sands reconsider the claim without reference to the same policy terms. 
Miss W accepted our investigators outcome. Red Sands disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. In July 2020 I issued a provisional decision and invited 
both parties to submit any further comments or evidence for my consideration. In my 
provisional decision I said:
Our investigator and Red Sands both commented on several policy terms. But there is a 
further policy term which is central to why Im not intending to conclude that Red Sands need 
to do more in relation to the claim. 
Under the heading significant exclusions Miss Ws policy says there is no cover for Costs 
for cosmetic, elective, routine or preventative, treatments, examination, vaccinations, 
spaying, castration, breeding and any claims as a result of any of these procedures.
I think this makes clear that any claims as a result of breeding are excluded from cover. And 
unlike the policy terms that have previously been discussed, there isnt a requirement that D 
had been used for breeding or that any treatment be preventative, cosmetic, routine or 
elective. 
Miss W says that the illness D was suffering from wasnt linked to her recently having 
whelped. Ive looked at the notes and clinical evidence from the time of Ds treatment. The 
notes show that Miss W called her vet on 3 June 2019. The record of the call says: Owner 
rang said [D] has had puppies over the weekend owner says [D] not herself, wont have 
anything to do with the puppies and owner concerned about her. Advised her to bring her 
straight in. 
On the claim form Miss W recorded Ds condition as Health Assessment  high temperature 
and the vet on their part of the form recorded Lethargy  post whelping. 
Miss W says that D was treated for an infection and high temperature, she says there isnt 
evidence to show that this was caused by D whelping. I dont think I need to make a finding 
as to whether or not the lethargy is related to Ds whelping to fairly decide this complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
Ive looked at the vets invoice for the treatment. It is broken down into two sections. Around 
£91 for a consultation, injection and some medication. And around £94 for radiology. In 
relation to the radiology the clinical notes say Radiology: No more pups in uterus. 
Even if Miss Ws suggestion that Ds treatment for lethargy was unrelated to her whelping or 
breeding could be proven to be the case, I dont think the same could be said for the costs of 
the radiology. The clinical notes evidence that this was done to check that no puppies 
remained in Ds uterus. I consider this to be connected to breeding and therefore caught by 
the exclusion Ive quoted above. The claim for the radiology wouldnt have taken place  
were it not for D having recently had puppies. 
If the costs of the radiology are excluded from the claim  the value being claimed for is less 
than the policy excess of £99. And in these circumstances, I wouldnt expect Red Sands to 
give further consideration to the claim as even if accepted, no payment would be due.
Looking at the complaint as a whole, I think Red Sands could have done a better job of 
explaining their decision and I agree the claim wasnt fairly declined on the basis of the term 
they initially referred to. But for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded that overall, 
weve ended with an incorrect or unfair outcome.
Now both sides have had the opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Red Sands and Miss W acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision and neither 
party had anything to add for my consideration. As such I see no reason to deviate from the 
outcome and reasons that I explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 Richard Annandale
Ombudsman