DRN-3745868
The complaint
Ms P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) defaulted her account 
and took payments when it said it wouldnt.
What happened
Ms P says that:
1. Barclaycard blocked her account even though she paid the sum needed to take the 
balance below the credit limit;
2. Payments were taken during the 60 days she was given to provide an income and 
expenditure analysis when requesting an extension of her payment holiday. She 
says Barclaycard told her a refund of the payments would result in a default on her 
account;
3. When she couldnt see her credit card on her app she was told her account had been 
defaulted, even though she hadnt received any notification. She adds that this also 
prevented her from managing her account.
Ms P says she has been making regular payments and the situation has caused her 
hardship as well as affecting her mentally.
Barclaycard says it agreed two payment holidays with Ms P before her account returned to 
its contractual terms in January 2021. It says the account went over its credit limit that month 
and, following an income and expenditure analysis which showed Ms P had negative 
disposable income, the account was suspended. Barclaycard says the account was placed 
on hold for 30 days to allow Ms P to liaise with a debt charity. On 3 February 2021 Ms P 
advised that she had a debt charity working on her behalf and so Barclaycard issued a 60-
day default notice and said it would cancel her direct debit. It says that after it requested the 
debt charitys repayment offer on 8 March 2021, the account was closed and a default was 
applied to Ms Ps credit file.
Barclaycard says the default was correctly applied but it did apologise for continuing to 
collect two monthly direct debits, both of which it offered to refund.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He found that Ms P paid her 
minimum monthly repayments in March and April 2021, following the termination letter in 
February 2021, so did not agree the account should have been defaulted. He was satisfied 
Ms Ps financial situation had improved and that she would work with Barclaycard to repay 
the balance. Our investigator recommended that Barclaycard should remove the default and 
pay Ms P £150 for the trouble and upset it caused.
Barclaycard accepted the investigators view.
Ms P responded to say, in summary, that £150 was too little compensation for the effect on 
her mental and physical health for 15 months  she says she was hospitalised with 
symptoms linked to stress. She adds that she could not apply for credit to start her business, 
or move to a smaller home or buy a cheaper car  all due to credit checks. Ms P also says 
that she had paid money onto the card with the intention of using it to buy food when 
Barclaycard suspended her account. She says she also made it clear that she didnt want 
her account to default when Barclaycard offered to refund the direct debits.
Ms P explained that as a result of Barclaycards actions she was forced to borrow from 
friends and family which made her feel very dishonoured. She says as a single mum of two 
teenagers, one of which has physical and mental health issues, she cannot fully commit to 
working outside the home. She says she lost her job in a restaurant when the pandemic hit 
and was expecting the same assistance from Barclaycard that shed received from Barclays 
Bank.
In summary, Ms P calculated that compensation of over £7,000 seemed fair and maybe 
writing off the debt entirely would not be unreasonable.
Following the further information from Ms P, our investigator reviewed the compensation 
figure and increased his recommendation to £350 for:
Continuing to block the account once Ms P had brought it up to date which left her 
with no money for food that month;
Taking payments from Ms P whilst the account was on hold;
Prematurely defaulting the account.
Barclaycard accepted the increased compensation recommendation.
Ms P further responded to say that she had not applied for further credit based on advice 
from this service that such applications could have a further detrimental effect on her credit 
file. She adds that another complainant was offered £750 compensation for having his 
account defaulted without notice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Barclaycard has agreed to remove the default from Ms Ps account, I dont need to 
consider that aspect of Ms Ps complaint any further. Both parties agree that is fair, so Ill 
focus on what Ms P remains unhappy with here, which is the amount of compensation being 
offered.
In doing so Ive considered in detail Ms Ps circumstances, the effect this has had on her and 
her own arguments regarding the level of compensation. I want to start by saying that it is 
clear to me that Ms P is an extremely proud person who takes her responsibilities, both financially and otherwise very seriously. Given the demands of her family, especially her 
daughter, Ms P was working very hard to juggle her various responsibilities before the 
pandemic hit and she lost her job in a restaurant.
When Ms Ps payment holidays finished in January 2021, Ms P received correspondence on 
14 January to tell her she was £33.43 over her credit limit and that she could not use her 
card. I have seen a copy of this, and it clearly says, When your account is up-to date and 
your payment has cleared, youll be able to use your card again.
Ms Ps minimum payment, of £294.83, was due on 8 February 2021 but, as a result of this 
letter, I can see Ms P paid that amount on 15 January 2021. She says she was planning to 
use the card to pay for food for herself and her children following that repayment, but the 
card remained blocked. Ms P says this resulted in her having to borrow money and her 
children needed to eat at their fathers. I have no doubt this caused her significant distress 
and embarrassment as, reasonably, she was relying on the wording in the letter.
I accept that Barclaycard had carried out an income and expenditure analysis at the time 
and suspended the account due to her negative disposable income, but, at best, Ms P was 
misled when she made that payment into her account. Im satisfied that had Ms P been told 
the account would remain suspended, she would not have made the payment when she did 
and would have been saved the distress caused by being unable to feed her children. So I 
find she should be awarded compensation for this. I acknowledge that Ms P says she should 
also be refunded that payment, but ultimately this was used to reduce the balance on her 
account so any such refund would result in the balance increasing again, which I dont think 
would be helpful here.
Ive also seen evidence to show that Barclaycard agreed to suspend Ms Ps direct debits 
when it sent her the 60-day termination notice on 3 Feb 2021. This didnt happen and March 
and April payments were taken as normal. I consider Ms P was also given misleading 
information about what would happen if they were refunded, especially given the account 
was defaulted despite these payments. For this, I also consider Ms P should also be 
compensated.
Ms P says she should also be paid the 15 monthly payments she would have made had the 
account not been defaulted - a total of almost £4,000. I understand that Ms P is saying her 
balance would be smaller by that amount, but I cannot conclude that is a financial loss to 
Ms P. I say that because Ms P has had the benefit of the £4,000 over those 15 months and 
so will have used it in other ways.
Additionally, Ms P says she has been adversely affected by the default financially because 
she hasnt been able to move to a smaller house or buy a more cost-effective car due to the 
checks that would have been carried out. Much as I sympathise with Ms Ps situation, and I 
acknowledge that she was advised further credit applications might worsen her credit score, 
I need to be certain that the default was a direct cause of any potential financial impact and I 
havent seen evidence of that being the case. Similarly, I cant conclude that the default was 
responsible for any financial detriment as a result of the effect on Ms Ps plans for a new 
business.So, I do find Ms P is entitled to compensation for the account remaining suspended, the 
failure to cancel the direct debits, the prematurely applied default and the effect  of the whole 
situation on her mental and physical health, but I consider £350 to be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. 
I note that Ms P has cited a case she finds to be similar and the complainant in that case 
was awarded £750. I must consider every case on its individual merits and so I cannot 
comment on the circumstances of the other case. Instead I have to focus on the individual 
circumstances of her complaint here. Having done so, Im satisfied that £350 is fair for the 
impact this had.
Finally, Ms P should note that she will be subject to her original contractual repayments once 
the account is no longer in default. I acknowledge that she now has a new job, but if she 
struggles to keep up with such repayments, Barclaycard is entitled to default the account 
again which will result in a negative impact on Ms Ps credit file for a further six years from 
the new default date. That said, Barclaycard also has an obligation to treat Ms P positively 
and sympathetically if she experiences financial difficulties again in future.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Ps complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as 
Barclaycard) should:
Remove the default from Ms Ps account, as it has agreed to do;
Pay Ms P £350 for the trouble and upset it has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman