DRN-3354013
The complaint
Mr E, through his representative, complains that the advice he was given to contract out of
the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) by Sun Life Assurance Company of
Canada (U.K.) Limited (trading as Sun Life Financial of Canada), was unsuitable.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 22 February 2022. The background 
and circumstances to the complaint, and the reasons why I wasnt minded to uphold it were 
set out in that decision. Ive copied the relevant parts of the provisional decision below, and it 
forms part of this final decision.
The original advice given to Mr E was by a firm called Confederation Life. This firm was 
later taken over by Sun Life, and they are now responsible for Mr Es complaint. Ill refer to 
them as Sun Life through this decision.
Mr E was advised to contract out of SERPS in 1989. At the time he was in his early 30s, and
earning approximately £8,300.
My understanding is that Mr E took the benefits from his plan around June 2012. Sun Life
has said that a total of £7,881 was paid into the plan, and that the final fund value was
£17,881. It said it paid Mr E a tax-free lump sum of £4,338, and a monthly annuity of £46.13.
In 2020 Mr E complained about the suitability of the advice hed been given through his
representative. It said, in summary, that Sun Life shouldnt have exposed Mr E to the risks of
a lower retirement income as a result of contracting out of SERPS. It said this involved giving
up a guaranteed income in favour of a pension linked to the stock market. The
representative said that Mr E wasnt informed of the risks associated with the policy and the
costs involved.
Sun Life didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. Mr Es representative referred it to us. One of our
investigators considered the complaint. He said that the main factors in deciding whether
someone would likely be better off contracting out of SERPS at the time were their age and
their earnings. He said that Mr E was below the relevant age (known as pivotal age), and
had earnings above the minimum amount which it was thought was required to make it likely
that contracting out would be beneficial. And given that Mr E had over 30 years to retirement
date, he thought the underlying investments were reasonable.
The investigator also thought that Mr E would have likely been given literature such as a
product brochure and terms and conditions when the plan was set up which would have
explained the fees and charges.
Overall, the investigator thought that the advice given to Mr E to contract out of SERPS was
suitable.
Mr Es representative said that Mr E didnt accept the investigators findings. It said the risk
that Mr E could receive a substantially lower income at retirement as a result of contracting
out wasnt explained to Mr E. It said that if it had been, Mr E wouldnt have wanted to take
that risk, and this was enough to make the advice unsuitable.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To give some brief background, in the late 1980s the government decided to allow
individuals to contract out of the SERPS. It wanted to give individuals more choice, and
shift pension provision from the state to the private sector.
Where an individual contracted-out of SERPS using a personal pension, a proportion of
their National Insurance contributions were re-directed into a personal pension plan. One
of the key issues was to decide what level of rebate applied. If the rebates were set too
low then the SERPS pension given up would likely be worth more than the investment
within the personal pension. If the rebates were set too high, then the government would
be paying more than it needed to, to offset the cost of its SERPS liabilities.
The level of rebate for contracted-out individuals was set by the government after taking
advice from the Government Actuarys Department (GAD). In addition to the rebate level
suggested by GAD, the government initially added an additional 2% annual incentive
payment that would apply until 1993.
The rebate percentage level was set as standard for all. This meant it was more
attractive for younger individuals to contract-out than those who were older, as they had
less time before retirement to benefit from investment growth on their rebates.
The government gave no advice as to who should be advised to remain in SERPS and those
for whom it was expected that contracting out would be beneficial. So the actuaries at
various pension providers carried out comparisons of the projected benefits from SERPS
against the personal pension arrangement (based on LAUTRO (Life Assurance and Unit
Trust Regulatory Organisation) set assumptions of likely future investment returns) to decide
who would likely benefit. The ages where the providers advice as to whether to contract out
or not would likely be beneficial were called pivotal ages. There was also a lower earnings
limit which was used to determine whether an applicants earnings would be enough for
them to benefit from contracting out.
As the investigator said, at the time of contracting out Mr E was below the relevant pivotal
age. My understanding is that the firm didnt have a set minimum salary requirement. But I
note that Mr Es earnings were well above the lower earnings limit at the time in any event.
So on the face of it, against these criteria, it would have appeared at the time that Mr E
would likely to be better off at retirement by contracting out of SERPS.
However there were no guarantees. And as Mr Es representative has said, by contracting
out, Mr E was exposed to the risk that the benefits from the personal pension could be lower 
than he would otherwise have obtained from SERPS. So I agree that risk was a factor to
consider when the adviser was considering whether it was suitable for Mr E to contract out of
SERPS.
Mr Es representative has referred to the advisers obligations under the LAUTRO rules; in
particular to give Mr E all the information that was relevant to his dealings with him and
use his best endeavours to enable Mr E to understand the nature of the risks involved. Itsaid when advising on the suitability of the contract, the adviser was also obliged to have
regard, in particular, to Mr Es financial position generally, to any rights he may have had
under an occupational scheme or SERPS, and to all other relevant circumstances. And its
said that under the common law, the adviser also had a duty, amongst other things, to act
with reasonable skill and care.
I accept that the adviser was acting in the context of these obligations. However the advice
to contract out was given over 30 years ago. There were lesser regulatory requirements on
the documentation that firms were obliged to complete at the time. There is some
documentation available here, however it was limited, and didnt record the degree of risk
that Mr E was willing to take at the time.
Mr Es representative has said that the risks of contracting out werent explained to Mr E,
and that he wouldnt have taken the risks associated with it if hed been told about them.
Clearly, its very difficult to say with any reasonable degree of certainty exactly what was and
wasnt discussed about the risks of contracting out with Mr E. But where, as here, the
evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I have to make my decision on the balance of
probabilities; in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Looking at the documentation that is available, Sun Life has provided a copy of Members
Booklet that it says would have been provided to Mr E at the time. This said, amongst
other things:
Please remember that the price of units in any of the unit-linked funds can fluctuate and
that the value of your investment in these funds can fall as well as rise.
At State Pension Age the bid value of the units allocated to this policy will be available
to purchase an annuity on the then current rates appropriate to protected rights.
Under the heading Unit Pricing and Charges it set out the costs and charges associated
with the plan.
Another document that accompanied the illustration provided further information about
SERPS. It said, amongst other things:
An estimate of the SERPS you would be entitled to for this tax year is given with this
illustration.
And under What should I be doing about it? it said
You could get a better pension by leaving the SERPS Scheme..The contributions are
invested and grow completely free of income and Capital Gains Tax. If you are young you
have a good chance that the resulting pension will be higher than if you stayed in SERPS,
but if you are older it may be better to stay in SERPS. Your individual illustration has been
prepared on your personal details and should give you the information you need to make
up your mind.
It went onto say:
The value of the units to which this plan is linked can fall as well as rise and their value is
not guaranteed.
Sun Life has also provided a copy of a Confidential Questionnaire that was completed at
the time. Amongst other things this recorded that Mr E had some shares in BP. There wasalso a handwritten note which said:
Due to his age, illustrations show it would be a wise investment.
Although a copy of the illustration isnt available, there are several references to an
illustration being provided in the documentation as I have set out above. It was also normal
practice to provide an illustration at that time. So I think its more likely than not that an
illustration was given to Mr E.
LAUTRO had specific requirements in connection with contracting-out of SERPS, and its
members had to provide illustrations in a specified way. I think the illustration provided to
Mr E would likely have shown that the amount payable at retirement date was subject to
the growth rates used in the illustrations being achieved.
I think the documentation would likely have acted as the starting point for the discissions
that the adviser had about contracting out with Mr E. I think contracting out was likely to
have been painted in a positive light. As I have set out earlier, I think given Mr Es age, the
adviser would reasonably have understood that Mr E would likely benefit from contracting
out.
However, I also think its likely that Mr E was alerted that there were no guarantees, and
was aware there was a risk the benefits from contracting out could be lower than SERPS.
Amongst other things and as I set out above, the literature said that he could get a better
pension, and had a good chance the pension could be higher. I think the literature also
explained that the benefits payable at retirement date would depend on the investment
returns/growth achieved and the value of the units at retirement date.
In the questionnaire that Mr E completed when he complained to the firm, when asked
where he understood the contributions would be invested he said, In the stock market. I
also note that he said his employer offered an occupational pension scheme. This isnt
mentioned in the contemporaneous documentation, and my understanding is that there
wasnt an occupational pension scheme available when he contracted out in 1989. Mr E
should let us know if he did have such a scheme available.
However I think taking all the above into account, Mr E would more likely than not have
been aware that there were risks associated with contracting out, and there were no
guarantees that hed definitely be better off.
For the reasons I explained above, at the time that Mr E contracted-out in 1989 I think it
would have been reasonably thought  and based on conservative assumptions  that
given his age, he would likely be better off at retirement by contracting out of SERPS. Mr E
wasnt guaranteed to be better off by contracting out of SERPS. There was some risk
involved. But I dont think the advice was unsuitable because Mr E wasnt told there was a
risk he could be worse off, or because it represented a risk that he wasnt prepared to
accept. It appears that Mr E was aware that the money would be invested in the stock
market, and I think its likely he was aware that this presented risks.
So taking all the above into account, I dont think contracting out of SERPS was unsuitable
for Mr E given all the circumstances at the time.
For the reasons outlined, I said my provisional decision was not to uphold Mr Es complaint. 
I asked Mr E and Sun Life to provide any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me 
to consider before I made my final decision. Mr Es representative said that the warnings about risk in the Members Booklet didnt match 
the emphasis placed on how beneficial it was to contract out. It said the information about 
the risks was very unbalanced, leading Mr E to believe that he was making the right decision 
and he should have been told equally that he could be worse off by contracting out.
Mr Es representative said the argument that advice can be considered suitable because it 
was believed at the time (by advisers and providers who stood to benefit from it) that a 
transfer would be in the client's best interests is an argument that didnt make sense. 
It said this was akin to someone who had developed lung cancer from exposure to asbestos 
being denied compensation because its use at the time was acceptable by the construction 
industry. It said there was a big difference between something being considered acceptable, 
and something actually being acceptable.
Sun Life didnt provide any more evidence or arguments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision. 
As I said in that provisional decision, I accept that although there were some references to 
risk in the firms literature, I thought contracting out would have been painted in a positive 
light. 
However for the reasons that I explained, I thought it was likely that Mr E was aware there 
were risks in contracting out. And I dont think the advice was unsuitable because Mr E 
wasnt told there was a risk he could be worse off, or because it represented a risk that he 
wasnt prepared to accept. 
I set out in my provisional decision why I didnt think the advice to contract out was 
unsuitable. Looking back, I think the advice was actually acceptable. 
Advice can be given that is suitable and understood to be in a clients best interests at the 
time, but ultimately doesnt work out, and results in a loss. However that doesnt necessarily 
mean that the advice was unsuitable. The suitability of the advice has to be considered in 
the context of all the circumstances and what was considered reasonable at the time. I dont 
agree that doesnt make sense, or that the asbestos example given by Mr Es representative 
is analogous.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman