DRN-2579726
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr S. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller.  
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2002 to cover a store credit account. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. AXA didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint. This is because, many years before, Mr S had been 
diagnosed with an incurable chronic illness; and any claims he made as a result of that 
wouldnt have been covered by the PPI policy. I dont think AXA did enough to draw that 
restriction to his attention. 
AXA said the medical condition wouldnt usually be expected to affect a persons lifestyle 
and could be managed with medication; and so, AXA said, its unlikely Mr S would have 
needed to make a claim for the condition. 
But I dont agree with that reasoning. Its known that the condition in question has the risk of 
leading to serious complications; and also that many sufferers struggle to maintain their 
medication regime. I think, if Mr S had known about the restriction in the policy, hed have 
thought thered be a high likelihood a future claim would be rejected. I dont think hed have 
bought the PPI.
 
Putting things right
AXA France IARD should put Mr S in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken 
out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mr S would have owed when he closed his credit 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr S owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr S would have owed 
when he closed his account from when he closed it until the point when Mr S wouldve 
owed something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mr S would have owed each month without PPI  Mr S 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr S would 
have owed AXA something on his credit. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.AXA should tell Mr S what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr S that relates to this PPI sale, 
that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. I require AXA France IARD 
to pay compensation as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman