DRN-2057329
The complaint
Mr R says Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream (Lending Stream), irresponsibly lent 
to him. He says that if effective affordability assessments had been carried out then Lending 
Stream wouldnt have lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about five short-term loans Lending Stream provided to Mr R between 
December 2018 and February 2019. Mr Rs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 20/12/2018 Outstanding 6 £270.00   £86.99
2 15/01/2019 Outstanding 6 £250.00 £169.59
3 01/02/2019 Outstanding 6 £120.00 £212.53
4 17/02/2019 Outstanding 6   £50.00 £228.70
5 25/02/2019 Outstanding 6   £80.00 £253.21
When Mr R complained to Lending Stream it offered to uphold loan five and pay redress. As 
the loans were still outstanding Lending Stream said it would offset the redress against that, 
which would leave Mr R with an outstanding balance of £478.35.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Rs complaint in full and thought none of the loans should have 
been given. They thought that Lending Streams own affordability checks showed that the 
lending was unaffordable and was unsustainable for Mr R.
Lending Stream didnt respond to the adjudicator.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure      
Mr R could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Lending Stream has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of
the borrowing. Its given us copies of the loans applications and I can see it asked Mr R
about his employment status  he confirmed he was employed and for all of the lending
Mr R had a declared monthly income of around £1,530. Lending Stream also asked about 
his monthly living costs and on the loan applications Mr R declared these to be between 
£1,050 and £1,393 per month. 
Lending Stream also used national average expense categories for a third-party verification
and an independent credit reference agency to check for Mr Rs credit expenses. As a result
of these checks, Lending Stream said it would upwardly revise Mr Rs monthly expenses 
figures if necessary. 
For loan one the monthly cost of the loan repayment was £86.99. After taking account of    
Mr Rs recorded monthly income of £1,533 and expenses of £1,393 this left him with a 
disposable income of £140. So, after making the loan repayment this would only have left 
him with £53.01 per month for any unexpected outgoings. 
The term of the loan was six months so I dont think it would have been unforeseeable that 
during those six months Mr R would incur some unexpected costs or outgoings. The loan 
repayments left Mr R with limited disposable income to pay for any unexpected expenses so, I think Lending Stream ought to have realised it was unlikely that Mr R would have been able 
to sustainably repay loan one  and any subsequent lending. 
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans one to five Lending Stream should put 
things right.
Putting things right
If the outstanding balance due on Mr Rs loans has been transferred to a third-party Lending 
Stream should buy the loans back if it can. If Lending Stream cant buy the loans back, then 
it needs to work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr R as though they had been repayments 
of the principal on the outstanding loans. 
If this results in Mr R having made overpayments then Lending Stream should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
If there is still an outstanding balance, then Lending Stream should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr R. Id remind Lending Stream of its obligation to 
treat Mr R fairly. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to loans 
one to five. 
                                                                                                                               
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. 
Lending Stream must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. Gain Credit LLC should put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman