DRN-4352559
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the service they received from Great Lakes Insurance SE 
and the settlement of their travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had an annual travel insurance policy. In August 2022 they went on a five-
week holiday. They planned to visit two countries Ill refer to as A and C. 
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs B tested positive whilst they were in A and were required to self-
isolate. They didnt travel to C as planned and returned home. So, they cut short their trip 
and returned to the UK, missing a significant part of their holiday. They claimed on their 
travel insurance policy for additional expenses and their trip being cut short. 
Great Lakes settled their claim in part but said there was no cover for cutting short a trip due 
to Covid-19. Mr and Mrs B complained about the settlement of the claim, delays in handling 
the claim and the mis-leading information they were given whilst abroad. Great Lakes 
offered £75 for delays but maintained theyd handled the settlement of the claim fairly. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs B complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He said the 
policy set out the scope of cover for Covid-19 and that the Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances 
werent covered. He thought the offer made in relation to the delays was reasonable and that 
Great Lakes hadnt guaranteed theyd cover the curtailment costs. The investigator also 
thought that Mr and Mrs B were most likely to have returned home anyway in the 
circumstances rather than continue their trip. 
Mr and Mrs B accepted the investigators findings in relation to the scope of cover for Covid-
19. However, they felt theyd been given misleading advice whilst they were abroad. They 
explained that theyd had a very challenging time in the lead up to their holiday and were hit 
hard by becoming unwell with Covid-19. They said that whilst abroad they were trying to 
understand their options so that they could make an informed decision. Mr and Mrs B also 
highlighted that they werent told that they werent covered whilst abroad and that there were 
significant delays when handling their claim which resulted in a lot of stress and a very 
substantial loss of their time. So, I need to make a decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. They 
should provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress. 
I have a lot of empathy with the circumstances in which Mr and Mrs B found themselves, 
particularly given what theyd said about their unexpected family bereavement shortly before 
their trip. 
The key remaining issues for me to consider are the information given to Mr and Mrs B 
whilst they were abroad and the handling of their claim on their return.  
The advice and information given to Mr and Mrs B by Great Lakes and their agents
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs B have said about the advice and information 
given to them whilst abroad. They were in a difficult position bearing in mind the restrictions 
in place in C, the nature of their travel plans and how they were feeling after contracting 
Covid-19. 
Even if I accepted that Great Lakes could have been clearer that the curtailment of the 
holiday may not be covered when Mr and Mrs B were abroad, it doesnt automatically follow 
that I uphold their complaint. 
Great Lakes made no commitment to cover that aspect of the claim and gave general 
guidance about the cover the policy offered. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances 
of this case. In reaching this conclusion Ive considered that Mr and Mrs B didnt require 
emergency medical assistance and were directed to pay and claim on their return. 
Ive also thought about whether Mr and Mrs B would have done anything differently if theyd 
known that the curtailment of their holiday wouldnt be covered. As Mr B acknowledged he 
couldnt say for certain what they would have done. I accept they may well have explored the 
restrictions in C in greater detail or attempted to continue their trip. 
However, based on the evidence thats available to me I think, on balance, its most likely 
theyd have chosen to return home. Mr and Mrs B had already spent 10 days of their holiday 
in isolation. If they continued to C there was a risk theyd spend a further 10 days in isolation 
if they tested positive on entry. Ive also considered that Mr and Mrs B said in their 
supporting notes to their claim:  
At the time of the calls on the 23/8 we were still unwell and symptomatic, but felt we 
were slowly starting to improve. However, it was very clear to us that we would not 
be well enough to continue with our holiday, not likely to pass Cs strict Covid 
immigration requirements requiring us to be completely symptom free and not to 
have Covid in the 10 days prior to entry. Failure to pass immigration would have 
resulted in a further compulsory 10 day quarantine at our own cost. 
The further quarantine was likely to have been at their own cost due to the policy limit for 
quarantine as theyd already utilised that benefit because of the first period of self-isolation.
Taking all of the above into account Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs B would have chosen to 
continue with their trip had they been advised that their unused holiday costs wouldnt have 
been covered. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, particularly when theyve incurred such a lot of out 
of expense by missing the rest of their holiday, but Im not persuaded that Great Lakes acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of this case. 
Delays in claims handling
Mr and Mrs Bs claim for expenses which werent related to the curtailment of the holiday 
were settled within around ten weeks of the claim having been submitted. Great Lakes accepts that there were delays in handling the claim. This led to Mr and Mrs B having to 
chase on a number of occasions via a series of calls which Mr B says totalled around four 
hours. 
I accept that this was inconvenient and added to the stress Mr and Mrs B experienced, 
particularly when claiming for a significant sum of money. However, I think the offer of £75 
fairly reflects the impact caused by having to chase for updates and the time taken spent on 
phone calls.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman