DRN-2721304
The complaint
Mr S and Ms W complain that Santander UK Plc wouldnt agree to transfer their joint 
mortgage into Mr Ss sole name following the breakdown of the relationship. They complain 
this meant they had to sell the property and incur an early repayment charge (ERC).
What happened
Mr S and Ms W took out their mortgage in 2016. They bought their property using the help to 
buy scheme and therefore also had a joint shared equity loan.
Unfortunately in 2017 their relationship broke down and Ms W moved out of the property. 
Mr S asked Santander to transfer the mortgage into his sole name, but it refused.
In 2019, Mr S applied again. By this time, Ms W wanted to apply for a mortgage on another 
property, so needed her name taken off this mortgage. Again, Santander refused the 
application.
Mr S says that, as a result, he was left with no choice but to sell the property. And that meant 
he had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) of over £3,000. And as he was unable to 
find another mortgage, he now has to rent rather than own his home.
Santander said it declined Mr Ss application because it didnt think the mortgage would be 
affordable for him on his own.
Our investigator didnt think Santander had acted fairly. She said Santander hadnt taken into 
account Mr S and Ms Ws best interests in deciding whether to refuse the application. 
Considered fairly, she said, Santander should have allowed it to go ahead. So she said it 
should refund the ERC plus interest, and pay Mr S and Ms W £500 compensation.
Santander didnt agree. It said Mr S first enquired about taking over the mortgage in 2017, 
when they first separated, but it wasnt affordable. In 2018 Mr S took a new fixed rate 
knowing he had already been told he couldnt take the mortgage over in his own right. Mr S 
applied again in January 2019 and was again told it wasnt affordable. His solicitors asked 
for a redemption figure in June 2019, and Mr S asked again about taking the mortgage over 
in August 2019.
Santander said it had a duty to assess affordability. It said there was no evidence Mr S had 
applied for another mortgage and there was no guarantee the help to buy scheme would 
have agreed to him taking over the shared equity loan. It said it required the help to buy 
schemes agreement before considering an application. Mr S and Ms W had already decided 
to sell the property before he applied to take the mortgage over in August 2019.
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the case. I said:
I can readily understand the difficult position Mr S and Ms W were in. Having bought 
a property together, their relationship had broken down  and both were keen to 
move on with their lives independently. Being tied into a joint mortgage didnt allow 
them to do that, so its clear why they wanted this application to go ahead.
However, Santander is constrained by the rules of mortgage regulation.
The rules say that where theres a change to an existing mortgage which is material 
to affordability, an affordability assessment must be done. And the rules say that a 
change of borrowers  the application here  is material to affordability.
Our investigator said that Santander should also have thought about whether the 
change was in Mr S and Ms Ws best interests. She was referring to another rule 
which says that Santander can decide not to carry out an affordability assessment  
or go ahead even if it is failed  where the change is otherwise in the borrowers best 
interests. And given that Mr S could show he had been paying the mortgage on his 
own, and it would allow them to move on with their lives separately, she thought it 
would be in their best interests. So Santander should have used this rule.
Unfortunately, I dont think that was right.
The rules around affordability and mortgage lending were tightened up significantly in 
2014. This was a response to the financial crisis, to make sure that in future 
mortgages were only given where there was strong evidence it was affordable.
The rules introduced at this time included the one that said an affordability 
assessment must be carried out where theres a change to an existing mortgage 
which is material to affordability  such as a change of borrowers application.
The affordability assessment itself was made much stricter. It now required lenders to 
carry out a detailed analysis, with evidence, of income and expenditure. And they 
had to check that the mortgage would be affordable not just at the time of borrowing 
but throughout the term  including in the event that interest rates would rise 
substantially (this is known as a stress test). Separately, the Prudential Regulation 
Authority has said that banks shouldnt generally lend where a mortgage is more than 
4.5 times a borrowers income.
This change meant that some people who had taken out mortgages before the rules 
changed would have passed the old affordability assessments, but could no longer 
pass the new stricter assessments. And that would mean they would be trapped and 
unable to make any changes to their mortgages once the rules changed.
So the regulator built in an exception, known as the transitional arrangements. This 
rule says that a failed affordability assessment can be set aside  or affordability not 
assessed at all  if the lender agrees that the change is otherwise in the borrowers 
best interests.
This is the rule that our investigator said Santander should have used in this case. It 
should have thought about Mr S and Ms Ws best interests, and if it had done so, it 
would have allowed Ms W to come off the mortgage and Mr S to take it over on his 
own.
However, this rule only applies to mortgages taken out before 26 April 2014  the 
date the rules changed. The transitional arrangements do not apply to mortgages 
which were originally taken out after that date.Mr S and Ms Ws mortgage was taken out in 2016. Thats why I dont agree with our 
investigator that this rule is relevant in this case.
That means the transitional arrangements cant be applied to Mr Ss application to 
take the mortgage over on his own. Santander had no way of setting aside an 
affordability assessment. If the assessment was failed, it could not  following the 
rules of mortgage regulation  allow the application to remove Ms W from the 
mortgage.
Ive looked at the various applications Mr S made, and how Santander considered 
them. It didnt carry out a full affordability assessment at any time.
Santander operates an initial screening process, to check for applications that will 
clearly fail its affordability assessment. It was at this stage, each time, that Mr S was 
turned down. There were other reasons too  including that he hadnt yet got 
permission from the shared equity lender, or because the property was on the 
market. But even if those hadnt been obstacles, affordability was.
Having considered what Mr S told Santander, and Santanders affordability criteria, 
its clear that it was right that Mr S wouldnt pass a full affordability assessment.
Its true that he had been paying the mortgage on his own, for some time. But as Ive 
said, a full affordability assessment isnt just about whether the mortgage can be 
afforded on that day, its about the whole term  including were interest rates to rise. 
And Mr S also fell outside Santanders general limit on income multiples.
Taking into account what Ive said about the mortgage rules, Im satisfied that it was 
fair and reasonable for Santander to refuse Mr Ss application to take the mortgage 
over on his own.
That means that Mr S couldnt take the mortgage forward on his own. His only 
options, if Ms W was to come off it, were to move to another lender or sell the 
property. Moving to another lender would mean the same affordability problems, 
which leaves selling  as Mr S in fact did.
Santander charged an ERC when he sold. Ive thought about whether  in the 
particular circumstances of this case  that was a fair thing to do.
When Mr S and Ms W took the mortgage out and committed to the fixed rate, they 
would have been made aware there was an ERC if the rate ended early. Its clearly 
set out in the mortgage offer in the way the regulator expects.
Mortgage lenders fund their mortgages by raising money on the markets  at a cost  
and then lend it on. They recover the costs of raising the money, as well as their own 
costs, through the interest thats received. If the mortgage ends early, that means the 
lender makes a loss. But rather than prevent borrowers ending the mortgage early, 
lenders allow that  if the borrower pays an ERC to cover the lenders costs in doing 
so. An ERC doesnt represent the individual costs of ending that specific mortgage 
early; its an estimate of the average cost across a group of mortgages.
So Santander agreed to lend Mr S and Ms W the money they wanted when they 
bought their property. And in return Mr S and Ms agreed to pay the monthly 
repayments  and to either keep the mortgage until the end of the fixed rate, or pay 
the ERC if they didnt.I appreciate their circumstances changed during the life of the rate. They separated, 
and agreed Ms W needed to be released from the mortgage. Because Mr S couldnt 
take the mortgage over on his own, this meant an ERC needed to be paid.
So while I appreciate Mr S and Ms W would rather not have had to pay the ERC, I 
dont think it was unfair. It was the mortgage operating as it should  allowing it to be 
ended early, if necessary, in return for covering the lenders costs. The alternative 
was to wait until the end of the rate before selling the property, leaving both Mr S and 
Ms W on the mortgage until then  which Mr S and Ms W didnt want to do.
The ERC was properly chargeable under the terms of the mortgage. It was agreed to 
by Mr S and Ms W when they took the mortgage out. It was the price of ending the 
mortgage early  even though theyd committed to keeping it for the fixed rate term. I 
dont think it was unfair in the circumstances.
Santander accepted my decision. 
But Mr S didnt. He said that he had been paying the mortgage in full every month since the 
start. Santander didnt take that into account, and didnt take into account their wider 
circumstances.
Mr S said that Santander hadnt looked properly at his individual circumstances, so couldnt 
be sure the mortgage was unaffordable. And even if it was, Santander could have 
considered it as an exception  but wouldnt do so. It was in both Mr S and Ms Ws best 
interests to move on with their lives separately. But Santander didnt take any account of 
this.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr S was unhappy with my provisional decision, and that it was different to what 
the investigator said. And I have thought about things very carefully. But Im afraid I havent 
changed my mind.
There isnt a discretion to make an exception in a case like this. Where the mortgage started 
after 2014, the rules are clear. A change in borrowers is only possible if a full affordability 
assessment is passed.
I agree Santander didnt do a full assessment in this case. But thats because  on initial 
screening  it was clear Mr S wouldnt pass the assessment. An affordability assessment is 
a fairly onerous process, involving a fair amount of documentary evidence. Its not 
unreasonable to decide not to put Mr S through that process when its clear he wouldnt pass 
it.
I do understand the position Mr S and Ms W found themselves in, and the importance to 
them of moving on with their lives. Before their circumstances changed, they had committed 
themselves to this mortgage. But by paying the ERC they were able to bring it to an end and 
move on. The ERC was properly chargeable. And it wasnt unfair for Santander to refuse 
Mr Ss application to take over the mortgage on his own if it wouldnt be affordable for him to 
do so. I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman