DRN-3518772
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain Medical Money Management (MMM) gave them poor advice when 
in 2009 it advised them to fund four savings policies invested in a particular with-profits fund.
Our header above refers to Ms C but Ive otherwise referred to her in this decision as Mrs C.
What happened
MMMs suitability letter outlining its recommendations was issued in October 2009. The 
illustrations date from a few days earlier. Three policies were started in 2009 and one in late 
March 2010 after underwriting.
The suitability letter said: I regard it as a medium to lower risk investment which provides a 
guaranteed return at the end of the investment period, which is enhanced year by year by 
the additional bonuses. Once added, these cannot be taken away.
Mr and Mrs C say they invested based on literature presented by MMM, including growth 
projections they were told were achievable and reflected general market conditions. They 
say they also considered comments about annual and terminal bonuses and their own 
experience of similar with profits funds in the 1990s. The with-profits fund recommended by 
MMM was in fact the fund of the same provider as those earlier investments, but the provider 
rebranded over time.
Mr and Mrs C say annual bonuses were made for 2009 and 2010 after they invested but no 
further bonuses were made in any subsequent year. Theyve explained projections with later 
annual statements from 2011 onwards got progressively worse, showing negative growth at 
one point, and bore no resemblance to the figures quoted at the start. 
In May 2010 the government announced incentives for a particular type of savings plan were 
to be reduced shortly and then withdrawn. After this, in around July 2010, the fund provider 
and its with-profits fund closed to almost all new business.
In 2013 a new provider started to run the fund. Mr and Mrs C say the 2014, 2015 and 2016 
annual statements indicated the poor fund performance was due to financial problems of the 
previous provider and stemmed from the 2008 banking crisis.
Mr and Mrs C have said theyve found information suggesting the financial problems related 
also to the previous providers exposure to the type of savings plan whose incentives were 
affected by the May 2010 announcement - and the previous providers failure to plan for this 
possibility. 
Mr and Mrs C say if theyd known of the problems they say the fund had or of what they say 
was the providers failure to plan, they wouldnt have invested in the fund.
Mr and Mrs C say the higher 9% growth rate quoted in the original illustrations would have 
been realistic if the investments hadnt been mismanaged. They say they wouldnt have 
taken the policies if theyd been fully informed and would instead have invested in equities 
and achieved returns similar to or better than those quoted.
They say the policies werent suitable in light of their circumstances and needs, and other 
more suitable options shouldve been presented by MMM. They say the policies were 
mis-sold by MMM and it should compensate them for financial loss and for the trouble and 
upset caused by what they consider to be the failure of the policies.
They also say they considered cashing in the investments but hopes of a final bonus and an 
encouraging economic climate convinced them to keep investing. They say the 2016 annual 
statement notes said: we aim to pay a final bonus to ensure a fair return. They say this 
didnt happen when their first two policies matured in December 2019, so they cashed in the 
other two also.
Mr and Mrs C say MMM should have appreciated and made them aware of the developing 
problems with the fund. Had it done so, they say they may have cashed in the policies earlier 
and invested the proceeds profitably elsewhere, avoiding further losses.
They say the size and extent of the investment underperformance means they feel MMM 
shouldve alerted them to the problem and discussed the pros and cons of terminating the 
policies early. They point out the terms of a client agreement they have says MMM would 
carry out annual reviews and give up to date information on contracts held through MMM. 
They say this is what they wouldve expected MMM to do.
Mr and Mrs C had a range of investments or financial products taken through MMM. MMM 
says that after a discussion in 2012, Mr and Mrs C decided not to continue with MMM and to 
use a different adviser. MMM says it continued to write to offer review meetings each year, 
but Mr and Mrs C didnt take these up. Mr and Mrs C dont agree that they told MMM they no 
longer wanted its advice and they say the servicing of the investments taken with MMM was 
not moved to another adviser.
I sent the parties my provisional decision on 6 May 2022 explaining why, based on what Id 
seen so far, I didnt plan to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I said Id consider anything 
more the parties wanted to provide and that I received by 3 June 2022.
MMM replied saying it had no further points it wished to raise at this stage. Mr and Mrs C 
replied to confirm receipt of my provisional decision but didnt provide any new points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of anything new since my provisional decision, Ive 
arrived at the same conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. 
I dont think it was wrong for MMM to advise Mr and Mrs C to fund the policies. Also I dont 
think MMM was wrong to not advise Mr and Mrs C to cash in the policies earlier  so if that 
caused loss, I dont think thats due to a fault on MMMs part. Ill explain my reasons, briefly.
Mr and Mrs C havent complained about the policies structures, the amount invested or the 
purpose or general idea of the investments. So Ill not discuss that in detail here. Ive nothing 
to suggest the policies werent affordable or not set up for the right beneficiaries for example.
I dont think MMM was wrong to provide illustrations from the provider like it did. These use 
standard growth rates for investments of this type - 5%, 7% and 9% a year  as set out by the regulator at the time. They illustrate what you might get back if those annual rates of 
return were achieved by the policies and what effect the actual charges and deductions 
made by the provider would have on that.
The policies guaranteed certain amounts at the end if payments were maintained. I think the 
illustrations are clear on what sums were guaranteed. What was guaranteed was less than 
what wouldve been paid in  so there was a risk of loss. If the plans were cashed in earlier, 
the guarantees would not apply, so there was a risk of loss in that scenario too. Whether a 
loss or gain would be achieved would depend on the policy returns. Those returns were not 
guaranteed. That was clear. Mr and Mrs C dont say they thought returns were guaranteed.
Mr and Mrs C havent suggested that risking the potential loss shown on the illustrations was 
not acceptable to them. Also I note what the suitability letter says about the investment being 
medium to lower risk. With all this in mind, Im satisfied the risk of a loss of this kind did not 
make the policies unsuitable for MMM to recommend to Mr and Mrs C.
In saying this I note what Mr and Mrs C have said about investments theyd previously had in 
the fund of the same provider. This doesnt on its own mean the advice was suitable. But it 
does in my view help support the idea that this sort of investment in this sort of fund was the 
sort of investment, fund and risk the consumers were willing to take at that time. In my view it 
adds weight to what Ive said above about the risk of loss shown in the illustrations not being 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs C.
It was for Mr and Mrs C to weigh up whether the gains available made the risk of loss worth 
taking. But MMM had to make sure the proposal was a suitable one for them to consider. On 
balance I conclude that it was. Ill explain.
Bearing in mind in particular the very low bank interest rates at the time, the illustrated policy 
returns made the policies potentially worthwhile compared to cash savings - the policies in 
my view had a chance of producing a better return over the investment term than savings 
accounts at the time. This chance came in exchange for more risk, as savings accounts are 
without investment risk. But, as Ive noted, the policies risk was limited by guarantees that 
limited their potential losses in certain situations if payments were maintained. The relative 
benefit of returns from the policies compared with cash returns would also be affected by 
taxation  potentially in the policies favour. But regardless of that I think the policies were 
potentially worthwhile compared to a savings account.
Mr and Mrs C have mentioned investing directly in the stock market as an alternative. That 
wouldve meant a different and potentially higher risk of loss (due, for example, to the 
absence of the guarantees contained in the policies). It would be a very different sort of 
investment. Ive explained above that I think the potential loss the policies might lead to 
didnt make the policies unsuited to the risk attitude the suitability letter said Mr and Mrs C 
would be taking by investing the money they were investing in the policies at the time. A 
different sort of investment with the risk of a higher loss  like direct stock market investment 
- might have produced different or better returns. But I dont think this means the advice 
MMM gave, to invest in the policies instead, was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs C. Just because 
a different strategy would have turned out to be more profitable, it wouldnt be fair to use the 
benefit of hindsight to say that a different strategy shouldve been recommended.
Mr and Mrs C say investment conditions over the period made returns at the higher 
illustration growth rate achievable. Their complaint is about the fact that the policies didnt 
make those sorts of returns  and that, from the annual statements they received and their 
other research, returns were affected by factors other than the prevailing investment 
environment. They believe MMM should have taken those other factors into account and 
given different advice as a result.The with-profits policies would grow at the rates shown in the illustrations only if the provider 
allocated returns to the policies at those rates. Whether it would do this would depend on the 
investment returns achieved but also on other factors affecting the overall strength of the 
fund and the ability of the provider to pay bonuses from it. 
Those other factors include:
Factors to do with the with-profits fund being a pooled fund where not all investment 
returns are paid out in good years, so some can be used to smooth returns in bad 
years. For example, how much past growth had been kept rather than allocated to 
bonuses, and how the funds assets compared to its liabilities to its with-profits policies.
How the providers profits or losses on its other activities increased or decreased what it 
could pay as bonuses on its with-profits policies. Those activities included in particular 
the running of its non-profits policies, which were largely made up of savings plans of 
the kind that came to be affected by the May 2010 government announcement.
So past decisions about the payment of bonuses, taken in response to past conditions like 
the financial crisis that began in 2007, will have affected the position of the fund as it went 
forward. This would be true of any with-profits fund and all investments are likely to have 
been impacted in one way or another by that financial crisis. In addition for this provider, its 
other activities could affect returns.
So when making its recommendation, MMM should have considered the with-profits funds 
financial strength, which in this case meant considering the funds overall position but also 
the position of its provider.
The suitability letter takes steps in that direction. It doesnt say anything about whether a 
bonus was declared for the fund in the most recent year before the advice, so I dont know if 
MMM took this into account or not. I note that not paying a bonus would tend to suggest less 
financial strength than paying one, all other things being equal. That said, a decision not to 
award bonuses for a year that covered part of a period, starting in 2007, in which stock 
markets fell by significant or historic amounts, isnt so surprising to be, in itself, an indication 
that the fund was one MMM shouldnt have advised Mr and Mrs C to invest in later in 2009. I 
gather from Mr and Mrs C that their policies did receive a bonus for the year ending 2009 
and that a bonus was also paid for 2010. 
With all this in mind, while its likely the financial crisis had impacted the fund, what Ive seen 
doesnt make me think that this in itself made the fund one MMM shouldnt have advised 
Mr and Mrs C to invest in at the time of the advice in September or October 2009. I note also 
that the fund was a fund provided by a regulated provider and open for business. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest it shouldnt have been accepting new with-profits business at the time. 
The fund, like other with-profits funds, was not without challenges at the time of the advice. 
For example, the amounts invested in with-profits funds like this was reducing in general, as 
illustrated in the FCAs thematic review of April 2019. 
Also the more a fund holds lower risk investments rather than shares, the more it decreases 
fund risk but at the expense of the funds long-term growth prospects, making emphasis on 
the higher illustrated growth rate less appropriate than it might be if a fund held more shares. 
On the other hand, the fund had a growing non-profits business that on the face of it had 
potential if it did well to lend profits to its with-profits business and enhance returns over the 
longer term. So there were potential positives to balance out the potential negatives. Also 
the policies didnt need to achieve the higher illustrated growth rate to work as investments. Also Ive seen nothing to suggest the funds asset mix made it unreasonable for MMM to 
recommend to Mr and Mrs C, bearing it was recommended as being medium to lower risk. 
With all this in mind, and given Mr and Mrs Cs objective of building up lump sums through 
regular savings over the medium to long term, I dont think it was unreasonable for MMM to 
recommend the fund as one they might consider investing in, or to present it to them as 
involving the sort of risk MMM suggested it involved.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs C have said about the performance being 
affected by exposure to government policy changes that took place in 2010. These were 
announced towards the end of May 2010, following a general election and change of 
government towards the start of May 2010. I think it was apparent that policy changes had 
the potential to impact the provider and its with-profits fund in turn. But its clear MMM wasnt 
in a position to know about the governments May 2010 announcement before it was made. 
Overall what Ive seen makes me think MMM at the time of the advice ought to have 
considered the non-profits business as presenting opportunities as well as risks, but in 
general terms and not in the specific sense that later came to pass. 
Moving on to what happened after the investments had been made, Mr and Mrs C dont 
agree that they didnt want any advice from MMM after 2012. They say that if MMM had 
given them advice after theyd invested, they mightve reduced their losses by cashing in the 
policies earlier and funding alternative investments. 
Mr and Mrs C have not said that MMM didnt send them letters offering reviews or advice, 
like MMM says it did. But in any event, Im persuaded that if Mr and Mrs C had wanted more 
advice from MMM on the situation, this is something they couldve approached MMM about. 
So Im not persuaded any failure on MMMs part to keep to its terms of business agreement 
with Mr and Mrs C was the cause of any losses Mr and Mrs C mightve suffered as a result 
of deciding to keep the policies rather than cashing them in earlier.
Due to the policy guarantees, continuing with the policies meant a certain minimum amount 
would be paid. So it limited the loss to a known maximum  but at the expense of paying in 
more and holding on for longer. With this in mind, and given the uncertainties the future 
always holds, Im not sure it wouldve been obvious that cashing in the policies earlier and 
investing elsewhere would produce a better result. Mr and Mrs C say it wouldve done, and 
perhaps that is right, but that is with the benefit of hindsight. It is not obvious to me that if 
MMM had advised at an earlier point, it ought to have advised discontinuing the polices.
I also bear in mind here that Mr and Mrs C say they kept the policies based on statements 
from the provider suggesting terminal bonuses might be paid at the end. I dont know what 
exactly it was that the provider said that encouraged them in this belief. But the provider was 
surely in a better position than MMM to know the strength of its funds, its future investment 
and growth allocation plans, and what this might mean for policy bonuses. So it is hard to 
see how MMM could have second guessed this. Id add that Ive no reason to suppose that 
what the provider was saying at those times wasnt fair and accurate either, although here 
Im considering only MMMs part in things. 
For the reasons Ive given, I dont think MMM is responsible for any losses Mr and Mrs C 
might have suffered as a result of continuing with the policies rather than discontinuing them 
earlier. In particular, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs C couldnt have obtained advice from 
MMM on this if they had wanted it.
So, for the reasons Ive given and in light of all Ive said above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Im grateful to Mr and Mrs C for their submissions and their patience during our investigation.My final decision
In light of what Ive said above and for the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman