DRN-3196162
The complaint
Miss G complains that Homeserve Membership Limited took three months to reply to her 
request for a copy of her home emergency policy documents.
What happened
Miss G cancelled her Homeserve home emergency policy in August 2020. She asked 
Homeserve for a copy of her policy documents soon afterwards and complained when there 
was a delay in giving them to her. Miss G contacted Homeserve on several occasions to ask 
for progress and she eventually received the documents in December 2020, three months 
after she asked for them. 
Homeserve apologised for the delay in sending the information to Miss G, and for the 
inconvenience this had caused. Miss G wasnt happy and brought her complaint to this 
service. She said she needed the information shed asked for to support another complaint 
about Homeserve shed made to this service. And she said Homeserve had obstructed her 
in doing that. She said the outcome of that complaint to this service might have been 
different had Homeserve provided that information sooner. She wanted an explanation for 
the delay and compensation for the stress caused.
Our investigator didnt think Homeserve needed to do anything more. She said Homeserve 
had told her the delay was due to the amount of outstanding cases it had. And because it 
had changed suppliers at the time Miss G asked for the documents, which meant it had 
taken longer than usual to get them to her. She didnt think the delay had affected Miss Gs 
ability to complain to this service. 
As Miss G didnt agree with the investigators view, her complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. She didnt think a change in suppliers was a reasonable excuse for 
the delay and didnt understand why Homeserve didnt keep policy documents on its online 
portal for six months after a policy ends, in line with the six month deadline to escalate a 
complaint to this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Homeserve took longer than it should have done to give Miss G the 
policy documents she asked for. Homeserve has acknowledged that and apologised for the 
inconvenience caused. Miss G wanted an explanation for the delay and compensation for 
the stress caused by having to wait for the documents and not knowing if the delay would 
affect the outcome of her complaint to this service. So, the question here is whether or not 
Homeserve should do more to resolve this complaint. And, on balance, I dont think it should. 
Let me explain why.
As our investigator said, Homeserve told this service the delay was due to the volume of 
outstanding cases it had at the time Miss G made her request. And a change in suppliers, 
which meant it couldnt access certain documents for a time. Miss G has said this isnt a 
reasonable excuse for the delay and I agree. It should have provided the documents within 
four weeks of her request, as it had said. But Homeserve has acknowledged it took longer 
than it should have done to give her the information shed asked for and its also provided an 
explanation for that delay. That explanation doesnt excuse the delay but I think its a 
reasonable explanation for why it happened. 
Homeserve told Miss G that policy documents are removed from its online portal when the 
policy is cancelled. It said this was in line with its usual process. I can understand why 
Miss G might think it would be better if Homeserve allowed access to policy documents via 
its online portal for six months after the policy ends. But I dont think it would be appropriate 
for me to comment on this issue. I dont have the power to tell a business how long it should 
allow access to documents on its online portal. I would, in effect, be telling Homeserve how it 
should operate, and thats not my role.  
I can understand why Miss G was concerned the delay in providing her documents might 
have impacted her other complaint to this service. Its unlikely that would have been the 
case. The delay didnt prevent Miss G from approaching this service and if we decided we 
needed further information, we could either have waited for that information or requested it 
from Homeserve ourselves. Nevertheless, I recognise Miss G was worried by the delay and 
Ive taken that into account. But, on balance, I think Homeserve has done enough to resolve 
this complaint. Its acknowledged and provided an explanation for the delay, and apologised 
for the inconvenience caused. And I think thats a fair and reasonable response in all the 
circumstances. 
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Miss G faced when trying to get hold of the information 
she wanted. But, in light of the above, I dont think Homeserve needs to do anything more.  
My final decision
Homeserve Membership Limited has acknowledged and apologised for the poor service 
provided, and I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman