DRN-4444587
The complaint
Mrs P complained because Santander UK plc refused to refund her for 12 cash withdrawals 
which she said she didnt make.
What happened
On 13 April 2023, Mrs P contacted Santander, to report that shed lost her card. Santander 
asked her about 12 cash machine withdrawals which had taken place on her account 
between 9 April and 13 April, for amounts ranging from £50 to £200. The total was £1,350. 
Mrs P said she never went to the places where Santander said the payments took place, 
and she hadnt made any of them.
Santander stopped Mrs Ps card, but it refused to refund Mrs P. She complained. On 25 
April, Santander wrote to her, saying the reason was that the disputed transactions had been 
verified using Mrs Ps genuine debit card, and her correct PIN. 
Mrs P was still unhappy. Santander wrote again on 8 May. It said that what Santander did in 
these circumstances was to establish how the card and PIN might have been compromised. 
Here, Mrs Ps genuine card had been used for the withdrawals. Mrs P had told Santander 
that she hadnt told anyone what her PIN was, and she hadnt written it down. As Santander 
hadnt been able to identify how anyone else might have obtained the card and PIN, it 
wouldnt refund her. Santander suggested that Mrs P could contact the police, and ask them 
to investigate  for example by looking at any CCTV from the various cash machines 
involved. Santander said that if she could identify a third party and successfully prosecuted 
them, she could try to reclaim the money by starting civil proceedings against that person.
Mrs P wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. Mrs P is in her mid 80s and she explained 
to us that she was disabled and didnt go out, except once a month when her husband took 
her. The last time she used her card herself shed been in bed. Shed looked everywhere 
and couldnt find it. Mrs P also said she told Santander that she hadnt been to any of the 
places where the cash withdrawals took place. There had also been some cash withdrawals 
which hadnt gone through but had been credited back to her account. Mrs P believed that 
the only explanation was that it was an inside job by some Santander staff.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. She said the technical evidence showed 
that the withdrawals had been made using Mrs Ps genuine card and correct PIN. Mrs P had 
said she hadnt written down her PIN and hadnt given it to anyone. And as she hadnt used 
the card anywhere where someone could have looked over her shoulder and watched her 
entering the PIN, no-one could have found it out that  way.
The investigator also thought that it wasnt likely that any Santander employee had carried 
out the transactions, and explained that the genuine card was used. It wasnt likely a 
Santander employee could have obtained this from Mrs Ps home. She didnt think that 
Santander had reached the wrong conclusion when it had declined Mrs Ps fraud claim.
Mrs P was very unhappy about this. She asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said the 
only people who knew her PIN were Santander who had given it to her. And she didnt 
understand how some of the transactions hadnt gone through but had been refunded into 
her account, which she didnt think could happen automatically but would have been done by 
a Santander person. Mrs P asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. This was because Id come to a different 
conclusion to the investigator. Issuing a provisional decision gave both sides the opportunity 
to comment on it, by the date set, before I issued a final decision.  
Before issuing the provisional decision, I considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
In my provisional decision, I explained that there are regulations which govern disputed 
transactions. The relevant regulations here are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In 
general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the 
customer is liable if they did authorise them. So the issue for me to determine was whether it 
was more likely than not that Mrs P carried out the transactions herself. If she authorised 
someone else to carry out the transactions for her, this would also count as carrying out the 
transactions herself.
I couldnt tell for certain who took out the 12 cash withdrawals, because I wasnt there. But it 
often happens that we dont have all the evidence wed like, and when that happens I take 
my decision on what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
The technical computer evidence showed that Mrs Ps genuine debit card was used. Its not 
generally thought possible for the chip on a card to be copied, and the computer inside the 
cash machines read and identified the genuine chip for all the withdrawals. And Mrs Ps 
correct PIN was also used. There are 10,000 possible combinations of a four-digit PIN. So it 
wasnt likely that any thief who had stolen Mrs Ps card could have guessed the number.
But there were multiple other factors which point to Mrs P not having carried out the 
transactions herself:  
- The technical evidence showed, among other things, the times at which the cash 
withdrawals were made. The majority were at times of day when I considered its 
most unlikely that someone in their mid 80s with health problems would have been 
driving round, or been driven there by her husband, to withdraw cash. For example, 
the first withdrawal on 11 April was at 3.39 am. The first on 13 April was at 00.24 am. 
Others took place in the late evening or very early morning. And if Mrs P had asked 
someone to withdraw cash for her, its unlikely theyd have done so at those times.
- The locations of the cash machines were mainly at post offices and supermarkets. I 
checked some of the locations in relation to Mrs Ps home. Those I checked were up 
to about 10 miles from her home, generally to the west and north-west. Mrs P lives in 
a city, and I could see no reason why shed have gone to these locations if shed 
wanted cash. There would have been many nearer cash machines. 
- Mrs Ps own evidence was that shes disabled, with a health condition, and only goes 
out once a month when her husband takes her. I looked at her statements and there 
was no history of cash withdrawals on her account, let alone ones which are some 
distance from her home and in the middle of the night. I also listened to the phone 
calls between Mrs P and this service, and these didnt indicate that Mrs P might have mental health problems which might have meant shed made the disputed 
withdrawals herself but had just forgotten.
- In addition to the cash withdrawals which went through, there were some which were 
rejected by the machines. Three were rejected because the withdrawal limit had 
been exceeded. This pointed to a third party, as Mrs P would have known the limit. 
And I could also see that from 12 April, four transactions were stopped as suspected 
fraud  but Santander didnt contact Mrs P to check whether the transactions were 
genuine. I thought it would have been fair and reasonable for Santander to have 
contacted Mrs P. It didnt do so.
- The repeated pattern of the transactions, as fast as the withdrawal limit would allow, 
is also typical of a fraud. Fraudsters typically maximise their gain by carrying out 
multiple transactions as quickly as possible.
I recognised that Mrs Ps theory was that it was a Santander employee who carried out the 
transactions. I didnt agree with that. First, whoever carried out the withdrawals had Mrs Ps 
genuine card. I couldnt see how a Santander employee could have got into Mrs Ps home 
and stolen her card. Also, Santander employees wouldnt have access to Mrs Ps PIN 
number. Many processes are automated, including sending out PIN numbers, and arent 
done by individuals. PINs can also be changed by recipients to a number they can more 
easily remember. Similarly, when the computer stopped some of the withdrawals (as Ive 
explained above), this would have been done as an automatic process by the computer. No 
individual person would have manually refunded the credits. So I didnt consider it was 
possible that a Santander employee carried out these disputed transactions.
Taking all these factors into account, I considered that what was most likely to have 
happened was that someone stole Mrs Ps card from her home, at some point shortly before 
the first disputed withdrawal on 9 April. This could have been a carer, medical visitor, 
someone who helped her in her home, or anyone else who visited or had access to her 
home. 
I recognised that Mrs P said she didnt write down her PIN, and it was difficult to see how the 
thief could have known the right number if this was so. But the thief who might have stolen 
the card could have been someone who knew her well or had access to her personal 
information, meaning they might have worked out Mrs Ps PIN. It wouldnt be right for me to 
know what Mrs Ps PIN was, but it might have been something like her day and month of 
birth, or a number that mattered to her and was easy for her to remember, or a very 
straightforward number like 1234.  
I recognised the difficulties when the customers genuine card and correct PIN were used for 
disputed withdrawals. But in all the circumstances of this case, I considered it was more 
likely than not that Mrs P didnt authorise the transactions herself nor authorise anyone else 
to carry them out. And I also thought that Santander ought fairly and reasonably to have 
contacted Mrs P to ask whether the transactions were genuine.  
So my provisional decision was that I intended to order Santander to refund Mrs P, with 
interest from the dates of withdrawal to the date of payment.
Responses to my provisional decision
Santander accepted the provisional decision.
Mrs P said that shed been with Santander for many years. She was unhappy that Santander 
hadnt contacted her as soon as the disputed payments started, and hadnt stopped the transactions. She was also unhappy at having been told that Santander wouldnt repay her 
and shed have to go to the police if she wanted to take it further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered, and in the light of the responses, I consider that my provisional 
decision was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ps complaint. I order Santander UK plc to pay Mrs P:
- £1,350 to refund the 12 disputed transactions between 9 and 13 April 2023; and 
- interest at 8% simple from the dates of withdrawal to the date of payment.
If Santander deducts tax from the interest on the award, it should provide Mrs P with a tax 
deduction certificate to show how much it has deducted, in order to allow Mrs P to reclaim 
the tax from HMRC if appropriate to her personal circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman