DRN-3617330
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to successfully transfer two international 
payments. Hed like the payments returned, and compensation for the impact on him. 
What happened
On 15 March 2022 Mr H attempted to make an international payment of £1,305  Ill call this 
payment one. And a further payment on 23 March 2022 of £1,965, Ill call payment two. Both 
payments were to be sent to Mr Hs friend based in a sanctioned country. 
However, the payments werent successfully sent to their destination bank, Bank B. 
At the time of Mr Hs attempt to make payment one a dormant marker was present because 
of a lack of recent activity. Mr H hadnt used his account since 2018. 
The dormant marker meant no payments could be paid into or out of Mr Hs account. And for 
Mr H to remove the marker HSBC informed him hed need to send certified information and 
proof of address to one of their UK offices. However, as he was based outside of the UK 
Mr H wasnt happy with this suggestion. 
Mr H had several conversations with HSBC to try to resolve this. HSBC provided an 
alternative advising Mr H he could visit a branch and provide his certified driving licence. 
However, the branch was several miles away from Mr Hs address. After Mr H visited the 
branch, HSBC temporarily removed the dormancy marker to allow both payments to be 
processed.
Payment one was sent on 15 March 2022, and initially was held for sanctions checks at 
HSBC. As the payment was due to be sent in euros the payment was required to be sent 
through two intermediary banks. HSBC advised that the payment was released from them 
on 6 May 2022, before passing through the two intermediary banks. On 10 May 2022 they 
were advised that the beneficiary bank had received the funds.
Mr H explained that he didnt want the payment sent to Bank B anymore  and asked HSBC 
to recall payment one, which HSBC advise was actioned. However theyve not received 
anything from Bank B.  
Payment two was attempted on 23 March 2022, and initial compliance checks were 
completed on the payment. Once these compliance checks were completed the payment 
was accidentally cancelled several times and re-effected by HSBCs internal systems. As a 
result Mr H asked HSBC to return the payment to him but on May 6 2022 HSBC advised that 
Payment two had been released to Bank B. However, this wasnt actually the case  and 
Mr H was provided with inaccurate information by HSBC. 
HSBC identified the mistake and after further delays repaid Mr H £1,965. Which he 
confirmed receiving on 7 June 2022.
On reviewing their actions HSBC accepted they should have done more here  and theyd 
contributed to the delays in the payments reaching their destination. They paid Mr H £1,050 
compensation. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint. They thought that HSBC could have 
done more when trying to process the payments. As HSBC themselves accept. They 
thought the compensation paid by HSBC, of £1,050 was fair. They explained that the 
evidence showed payment one had been received by Bank B and payment two had been 
returned to Mr H. And they thought HSBC had done everything theyd expect when trying to 
recall payment one. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators conclusion. In response he said:
The trip HSBC made him carry out was unreasonable  he only made the journey 
because he wanted the money transferred to Bank B
Will he ever get payment one back?
The transfers didnt happen as quickly as they should have, and this wasnt because 
of sanctions
He had to make 27 hours worth of calls to HSBC
As Mr H didnt agree its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dormant markers
Ive firstly considered HSBCs actions in asking Mr H to attend a branch  and provide 
certified documents. Ive looked at HSBCs policy and whether the bank applied it. Their 
policy states that once a dormant marker has been placed on an account the customer 
needs to provide certified documents to a UK branch. But, after Mr H requested it they 
offered a solution in advising him to visit a branch and provide the documents. 
Ive thought about HSBCs actions in advising Mr H to attend a branch if he wanted the 
marker removed more quickly  and I think theyve acted fairly here. I say this because I 
think HSBC were flexible with their policy in giving Mr H an alternative solution  something 
they didnt need to do. And I cant hold them responsible for any costs incurred by Mr H, in 
choosing to take up this alternative. 
Payment transfers:
Ive firstly thought about HSBCs actions with payment two. Mr H has confirmed that this 
payment was returned to him in June 2022, therefore I dont need to consider the location of 
payment two and whether HSBC need to do anymore to resolve it. But, I do need to think 
about the inconvenience caused to Mr H by HSBCs actions  and this was significant. I 
agree with HSBC that certain checks needed to be carried out to ensure that payment was 
safe to be released, but as HSBC themselves accept the attempted transfer was cancelled 
by them several times. And this was a major cause in the payment failing to reach Bank B. 
Overall HSBC held payment two from 23 March to 7 June 2022. 
Ive moved on to think about payment one. Which had a slightly different payment journey to 
payment two. HSBC have advised, and provided evidence, that this payment has now been released and paid to Bank B as of 10 May 2022. But, I think HSBC should have done more 
to ensure that this payment was released much more quickly. And therefore Mr H was 
caused inconvenience. However, some of the delays were out of their control. 
Ive considered Mr Hs request for the funds to be returned  and Ive seen evidence from 
HSBC that they contacted Bank B to ask for the payment to be reimbursed. I understand 
from HSBC theyve unfortunately not received any response. Ive thought about whether Id 
expect them to do anymore here, and I know this will disappoint Mr H but Im afraid I dont 
think they should. I say this because, after causing unnecessary delays, HSBC managed to 
send Mr Hs payment to Bank B. Which was the instruction Mr H gave HSBC  therefore the 
bank followed their obligation to enact Mr Hs payment instruction. Id expect them to make 
attempts to recall the payment, as Mr H asked, and I can see this has happened. And Im 
afraid, I cant hold HSBC responsible for Bank Bs lack of response. 
HSBC have paid Mr H £1,050 compensation for the inconvenience caused. Ive thought 
about the impact of HSBCs actions on Mr H, and Im satisfied their failure to successfully 
transfer his funds as quickly as Id expect and the misleading information they provided 
caused Mr H inconvenience and distress. But, Ive thought about the compensation offered 
and Im satisfied its in line with what Id expect HSBC to offer. It follows I wont be asking 
them to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman