DRN-2876910
The complaint
Ms H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms H bought the policy in 1999 to cover a mortgage. She paid for it using a regular monthly 
premium, which did not attract interest.
I sent Ms H and Halifax a provisional decision on 17 May 2021, to explain why I didnt think 
Halifax needed to do anything more here. In that decision, I said:
According to the insurers records, Ms H made a successful accident and sickness claim 
which paid out over £3,900. According to the record of the premiums, Ms H paid under 
£2,600 for the PPI in total.
So Ms H paid less for the PPI than what she received in claiming on it.
Ms H has raised concerns about the way her policy was sold, which is understandable given 
the widely publicised problems with some PPI policies. But if I were to find that Halifax had 
mis-sold this policy, then I would require them to put Ms H in the financial position shed be 
in now if shed never had the PPI.
If the PPI had never been sold, then Ms H wouldnt have paid around £2,600 for it. But 
equally, if the PPI had never been sold, then Ms H would not have been able to claim on it, 
and would never have received around £3,900 in benefit.
So as Ms H received more from the PPI than what she paid for it, I cant fairly tell Halifax to 
pay her anything further even if it was mis-sold.
With that said, Halifax have paid back some of the cost of the PPI because they got a high 
level of commission and profit share. They should have told Ms H about that, and because 
they didnt tell her, that was unfair. To put that right, Halifax have paid back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium, and I think that is fair 
in this case.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
14 June 2021. But neither Ms H nor Halifax sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I cant fairly tell Halifax to do 
anything further here.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) dont need to refund anything further to Ms H in this 
particular case, because she received more from the PPI than what she paid for it.
Halifax have paid back to Ms H any commission and profit share they got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium, which I think is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman