DRN-3301646
The complaint
Mr M and Ms H complain Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim for storm 
damage made under their property insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
In May 2021, Mr M and Ms H raised a claim for storm damage to their home and the 
garages underneath the propertys roofline.
Aviva visited the property on 18 May. Mr M and Ms H were unhappy with how the 
visit was conducted and the methods that the contractors used. They had also been 
unhappy with discussions and comments around their liability to garages belonging 
to their neighbours.
Aviva declined the claim. They said the damage being claimed for wasnt a result of a 
one-off storm event.
Mr M and Ms H had their own builders opinion which contradicted Avivas. They 
maintain that the damage was a result of the storm and complained to Aviva about its 
claim decision. Theyve since paid to have the necessary works completed and 
would like Aviva to reimburse them.
Aviva responded to the complaint saying the damage experienced by Mr M and Ms H 
wasnt consistent with storm or any other insured peril.
A complaint was referred to our service which our investigator reviewed and didnt 
support. Our investigator wasnt persuaded storm conditions were the main cause of 
the damage and therefore Aviva didnt have a claim to answer.
Mr M and Ms H responded to the complaint with further comments. The investigators 
opinion remained unchanged.
Mr M and Ms H have asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr M and Ms H have raised their concerns about damage to the garages below their 
propertys roof line caused by debris which fell from their roof. Avivas said that the policy 
covers Mr M and Ms Hs home only and it doesnt cover other properties. I agree that this is 
correct.  However, if the owners of the garages did seek to hold Mr M and Ms H responsible 
for the damage, then they can contact Aviva who can consider this under the legal liabilities 
part of the policy. 
As our investigator has explained our service considers three main questions when looking 
at storm complaints.
The first thing I look at is whether there was a storm at the time in question. If there wasnt a 
storm there cant have been any damage caused by a storm. Aviva accepts there was a 
storm around the time a claim was registered with it. So, Im happy the first question is 
satisfied.
The second and third question I look at if Im satisfied theres been a storm, is whether the 
damage to Mr M and Ms Hs property is consistent with what Id expect a storm to cause. 
And if so whether the storm is the main cause of the damage suffered. Im afraid I dont think 
the third question was satisfied here.
Ive read the report from the contractor that Aviva appointed. It said the verge mortar has 
fallen out due to wear and tear, the remaining mortar has cracks which evidences that it is 
deterioratingthe tiles above the mortar remain in situ and have not been disturbed; had the 
cause of damage been high winds we would expect to see damage to the surrounding tiles 
as winds would lift them out of place.
Mr M and Ms Hs builder said that the tiles had slightly lifted. I note the schedule of works 
didnt include replacing any broken tiles and the builder was able to reuse the tiles that had 
been left in situ on the roof.
I note Mr M and Ms H comments about Avivas contractors inspection of the damage. Whilst 
its inspection wasnt close up, Im persuaded it has been able to make an informed decision 
based on the photos, it had sight of the cracks in the mortar and it noted that the tiles had 
remained in place. Ive reviewed the photos of the roof and the condition of the mortar which 
seems to show cracks elsewhere. Im sufficiently persuaded by the evidence that this shows 
signs of wear and tear and deterioration through exposure to the elements including the 
freeze and thaw process. Also given the speed of the wind, my view is its unlikely these 
winds would be able to remove mortar on a well-maintained roof.
I acknowledge comments from Mr M and Ms H about the mortar being replaced just over 10 
years prior to the storm event. And that their management company completed an annual 
survey with no reference made to the condition of the mortar. I also acknowledge their 
comments about the exposure of their property to the elements and the lack of impartiality 
on the part of the contractor appointed by Aviva.
The report from the management company doesnt suggest it surveyed the condition of the 
mortar. And the age of the mortar alone doesnt mean that it was in good working order. Mr 
M and Ms H has explained that their property is exposed to the elements which may speed 
up the deterioration of the mortar.
Our service considers all evidence presented  including the experts representing the 
complaint parties and this is what I have done. I have no reason to doubt Avivas contractor 
didnt provide an impartial view just because it didnt support Mr M and Ms Hs claim.
And based on everything Ive seen I think Avivas decision not to settle Mr Ms and Ms Hs 
claim for storm damage was fair and reasonable. I know they will be disappointed with this 
outcome. But after looking very carefully at everything Mr M and Ms H and Aviva have said, 
including photos and reports, Im not persuaded the damage is the result of a storm. So, I 
wont be asking Aviva to do anything further. My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman