DRN-4296690
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him a fee-paying First 
Additions account in May 2008. The account was later downgraded to a fee-free account 
and a fee-paying Tech Pack was added to the account in December 2015.
Mr C says that the account was mis-sold because he was told that hed need to change his 
account and was told that fee-free accounts were no longer available. Mr C says he was led 
to believe he needed a fee-paying account to continue using his overdraft.
What happened
After Mr C raised his complaint with Barclays, Barclays issued its final response letter on 1 
December 2022 and didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators assessed the complaint 
and they didnt think that the packaged account had been mis-sold.
Mr C disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts, and Ive used that to 
help me decide this complaint. I think it may also help to explain that where matters are in 
dispute and evidence is lacking, as is the case here, I need to decide what I think most likely 
happened, based on everything that is available.
Mr C says that he was told that fee-free accounts were no longer available. He also says 
that he was told that if he wanted to continue using his overdraft, he would need to upgrade 
his account. Unfortunately, due to how long ago the sale took place, Barclays has only been 
able to provide limited evidence. This means that I have had to weigh up Mr Cs recollections 
of events from 2008 alongside all of the other evidence that is available.
I understand that in 2008 the First Additions account cost £6.50 and one of the benefits it 
provided was a £100 interest free overdraft facility, with lower rates of interest (compared to 
a standard fee-free account) on overdrawn balances, up to the agreed limit.
Barclays has provided Mr Cs bank statements from 2008. Having looked through these I 
can see that Mr C heavily relied on the overdraft on his account at the time. Indeed, in the 
months after Mr C upgraded his account, his account was nearly always overdrawn by more 
than £1,000. So I think reducing the cost of using his overdraft wouldve been important to 
Mr C at the time.
When weighing up what I think was most likely to have happened, I think its likely that 
Barclays wouldve told Mr C about the benefits of the First Additions account  especially the 
overdraft benefits that it came with. And given Mr Cs circumstances at the time, I think its 
much more likely that he agreed to it because he was attracted to, and able to benefit from, 
the features of the account  rather than it being the case that he was led to believe he had 
no choice in the matter. I say this because, given the extent that Mr C used his overdraft at 
the time, it seems likely that the monthly savings hed receive by having the First Additions 
account i.e. lower overdraft interest, wouldve been greater than the monthly cost of the 
account.
Mr C has said that he didnt need the insurance benefits that were included with the account. 
But the evidence suggests he likely agreed to it largely for the banking benefits that it 
provided. And as it was sold as a package, Mr C was unable to pick and choose what it 
came with.
So when taking everything into account, I dont think the First Additions account was mis-
sold.
Mr C has also asked that the Tech Pack fees be refunded to him as well. But I cant see why 
they should be. 
To explain, the Tech Pack was not actually sold to Mr C. Instead, Barclays has explained 
that it had decided to withdraw Mr Cs existing First Additions packaged account and so 
wrote to all account holders to explain that their accounts would be changed to a fee-free 
account. 
However, to ensure existing account holders were able to continue to receive some similar 
levels of insurance cover i.e. mobile phone insurance, Barclays added a Tech Pack to the 
affected accounts. Barclays gave all account holders the option to opt out of adding the Tech 
Pack to their account, should they no longer want or need such insurance cover.
Barclays was able to make such a change, essentially because it was largely replacing the 
existing insurance policy (mobile phone insurance) that Mr C was already paying for under 
the First Additions account. However, when making such a change, Barclays was required to 
clearly explain what changes were taking place and to also give all of the affected account 
holders enough notice of the changes, so that they could consider their options.
Barclays has provided a copy of the migration letter it says it sent to Mr C. The letter was 
dated 28 September 2015. This explained that Mr Cs account would be changed to a fee-
free account with a Tech Pack added on 15 December 2015. It also explained the cost of the 
Tech Pack would be £9.50 per month - which was an increase from £6.50 per month that 
hed previously been paying for the First Additions account. It also explained that, if Mr C 
chose to opt out of adding the Tech Pack to his account, his overdraft limit would remain 
unchanged - but no part of it would be free to use. 
Having looked at the letter that was sent to Mr C, I think Barclays made it reasonably clear 
what changes were occurring on Mr Cs account. I also think that Barclays made it clear that 
the Tech Pack was optional, and that Mr C could opt out of having it on his account, if he 
didnt need such cover. 
The letter looks to have been correctly addressed. So, I think it was more likely than not 
received by Mr C - although given how long ago it was sent, I can understand if Mr C now 
does not recall receiving it. 
I understand a follow up letter wouldve been sent to Mr C to confirm the changes on the 
account, although Barclays hasnt provided a copy of that letter on this occasion. But I can 
see that Barclays did send Mr C annual eligibility statements after the migration. These 
reminded Mr C of the Tech Pack benefits and invited him to get in contact if it didnt meet his 
needs.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays did what it needed to do to inform Mr C of the changes 
that were made to his account and that he was given a reasonable amount of time to 
consider his options. 
As such, in the circumstances, Im unable to say that Barclays should refund the First 
Additions account fees, or the Tech Pack fees.My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman