DRN-3563926
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Coventry Building Society (CBS) refused to allow a product 
switch and a term extension on her mortgage. 
Mrs S is represented in the complaint, but I will refer to Mrs S throughout for the sake of 
clarity.
What happened
Mrs S has a mortgage with CBS, in the joint names of herself and her husband, Mr S, from 
whom she is now divorced.
The issues leading up to the complaint have been somewhat overtaken by events, because 
the court has made a final order in Mr and Mrs Ss divorce proceedings which relates to the 
property. 
However, I will summarise the complaint, but in rather less detail than its been presented. 
There are several reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in 
correspondence, and in the investigators letter dated 21 April 2022. All parties have a copy 
of that letter, so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. Secondly, what happened 
really isnt in dispute, so I dont need to analyse the events in order to determine why a 
complaint has been made. Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mrs S being identified.
I must also explain that Mr S isnt a party to this complaint, so I cant comment on any 
dealings he has had with CBS, other than to clarify the background to the complaint.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs S had a joint mortgage with CBS which was on a fixed rate product until 
31 December 2019. On 1 January 2020 the mortgage reverted onto standard variable rate 
(SVR). 
In early 2020 Mrs S asked CBS for a payment holiday, a product transfer and a term 
extension, extending the term by 23 years. By this point Mr and Mrs S had separated and 
Mrs S was in the property with the children. She wanted to keep the property and make the 
mortgage more affordable.
CBS had a two-year fixed rate product at an interest rate of 1.29%, which came with a fee of 
£999 and an early repayment charge (ERC). In order to switch the mortgage onto that 
product, Mr S would need to consent. However, he refused to consent to any changes at all, 
including the payment holiday and term extension.
After careful consideration, CBS agreed to the payment holiday, as it didnt think this would 
be detrimental to Mr S. However, CBS wouldnt agree to a term extension without Mr Ss 
consent. CBS would only agree to a product transfer if it was not detrimental to Mr S, i.e. 
with no ERC or fee added to the loan. As a gesture of goodwill, CBS said it would backdate 
any new product to 1 January 2020. CBS said it could only agree to this, however, if full 
details of Mr and Mrs Ss income and expenditure were received. CBS didnt receive Mrs Ss 
income and expenditure details until December 2021, so the account remained on SVR.
Unfortunately the mortgage was also in arrears and CBS was considering taking 
repossession action. Mrs S was making the full contractual monthly payment of £2,081, and 
since June 2021 had been paying an additional £172 towards the arrears.
On 15 December 2021 the court made a final ancillary relief order in Mr and Mrs Ss divorce 
proceedings in which it was ordered that the property should be sold. The court decided how 
the proceeds of sale were to be divided, with Mrs S receiving the majority share of the 
equity. The property does not appear to be on the market for sale at the date of this decision.
In January 2022 Mrs S raised a complaint that CBS had treated her unfairly. A possession 
hearing was imminent and Mrs S wanted us to adjourn the hearing until the financial 
arrangements for the divorce had been put in place. It was hoped that with Mr Ss name off 
the mortgage a more affordable mortgage could be arranged.
We asked CBS to put possession action on hold while we considered the complaint. 
However, the investigator didnt think CBS had done anything wrong. She was satisfied that 
no changes could be made to the mortgage without Mr Ss consent and that, other than the 
payment holiday, there was nothing CBS could do. The investigator explained that the 
dispute between the parties wasnt something we could become involved with and that 
ultimately it was a matter for the courts.
Mrs S disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I confirm Ive read everything thats been sent to us, including Mrs Ss testimony 
about her personal circumstances. I have no doubt that the breakdown of her marriage has 
been very traumatic for her. But I must decide the case on the evidence, and not be swayed 
by emotion.
The fact is that the mortgage is in joint names, and as such, Mr S is required to consent to 
any changes that might be detrimental to him. Without his consent, CBS isnt able to make 
any changes to the mortgage that would result in a term extension or an ERC. I appreciate 
Mrs Ss hopes were raised in early 2020 when she thought a new product could be 
arranged, but without Mr S agreeing to this (which he did not), it wasnt possible to go ahead 
with it. 
But since then, matters have moved on and the court has ordered that the property must be 
sold. The court didnt order that the property should be transferred into Mrs Ss sole name, or 
that she should take over the mortgage. I dont have any power to interfere with an order 
made by a court. 
The mortgage is in arrears by about £30,000, and, although possession action was put on 
hold, CBS has recently contacted Mrs S about this, as the court had listed a new hearing 
date. CBS has now agreed to adjourn the matter generally, with liberty to restore whilst this 
complaint is being resolved.In all the circumstances, I dont think CBS has done anything wrong. It was caught in the 
middle of the dispute between Mr and Mrs S, and so wasnt able to make any changes to the 
mortgage without the consent of both parties. I appreciate Mrs S thinks this isnt fair, but Im 
afraid I disagree. As a joint party to the mortgage, Mr S has the same rights as Mrs S in 
relation to the contractual terms and they cant be varied in a way that would be detrimental 
without his consent. CBS looked at the ways it could help, but without the consent of both 
parties and the co-operation of Mr S, it wasnt possible to change the mortgage product.
I dont know what Mrs Ss plans are in relation to selling the property, notwithstanding that 
the court has ordered it must be sold. Mrs S has explained that there is £450,000 equity in 
the property, and the court has ordered that Mr S is entitled to a share of this. With her share 
of the equity, as provided for in the court order, Mrs S should be able to buy a new property 
outright free of mortgage. There are three-bedroomed properties in the same postcode area 
as her current property for under £300,000 on the major property portals, and I understand 
Mrs Ss share of the equity is likely to exceed that amount by about £40,000, if her estimate 
of the available equity is accurate.
I appreciate Mrs S would prefer to stay in the property and take over the mortgage. But the 
level of arrears and the terms of the court order would appear to preclude that. It might help 
Mrs S to speak to her solicitors or to a financial adviser to find out what her options are in 
this respect. However, in the absence of any proposals to clear the arrears, CBS would be 
entitled to ask the court to re-list the possession hearing.
In closing, I note that Mrs Ss representative specifically raised this complaint in order to put 
the possession proceedings on hold. Lenders generally will agree put recovery action on 
hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they dont have to and we cant force them to; if the 
Financial Ombudsman Service had that power it would undermine our impartiality between 
the parties to a complaint. It would also create the potential risk of consumers using our 
service to bring complaints with the intention of obstructing businesses that were trying to 
take legitimate action to recover money owed to them. 
In the circumstances, the extent to which the Financial Ombudsman Service might be able to 
assist Mrs S in the future is very limited. Our powers do not allow us to interfere with CBSs 
contractual right to take legal action through the courts where it is legitimately entitled to do 
so. I am explaining this because I would not want Mrs S to be under any misunderstanding 
that bringing fresh complaints to the Financial Ombudsman Service about any new issues 
would result in us asking CBS to put legal action on hold. If a new hearing date is applied for, 
Mrs S would need to ask the court to put this on hold; it is not something we have the power 
to do. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mrs S was hoping for. But after giving the matter careful 
consideration, Im unable to find that CBS has acted unfairly or unreasonably in all the 
circumstances of this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman