DRN-4042259
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont accept an offer he made to settle an 
outstanding loan and that HSBC have reported adverse information to his credit file.
What happened
In October 2016, Mr H took out a personal loan with HSBC. Mr H disputes how much he 
should be considered as owing on the loan and in 2021 he made an offer to HSBC to settle 
the loan. Mr H wasnt happy that HSBC didnt accept his offer, so he raised a complaint. 
HSBC responded to Mr H and reiterated that they werent willing to accept the settlement 
offer hed put forwards. Mr H wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, and he also wasnt 
happy that, because hed stopped making payments towards the loan while his complaint 
was active, HSBC had reported missed payments for the loan to his credit file. So, he 
referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel HSBC had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that HSBC have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations would 
be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
Mr H has provided several submissions to this service about his complaint. Id like to thank 
Mr H for this, and I hope he doesnt consider it a discourtesy that I wont be responding in 
similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key aspects of this 
complaint, in-line with this services role as an informal dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr H notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr H and HSBC. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
Specifically, Mr H has provided detailed information about his ongoing dissatisfaction about 
the interest charged by HSBC on the loan. However, this service considered a complaint 
raised by Mr H about this matter in 2022, and it was decided at that time that this wasnt a 
complaint that this service was able to consider.
Mr H has explained that he provides the information about his continuing dissatisfaction at 
the interest charged on the loan to provide context to this complaint. But I hope Mr H will 
understand that because this service isnt able to consider that aspect of his complaint, Im 
unable to take Mr Hs context into account. 
Accordingly, the starting point of this service must be that there is no issue with the amount 
of interest charged on the loan by HSBC. And this is because to do otherwise would mean 
that this service would be considering an aspect of Mr Hs complaint that its already been 
explained to Mr H that were unable to consider. 
Furthermore, given that this service must approach this present complaint about HSBC not 
accepting Mr Hs settlement offer from the position that there is no issue with the amount of 
interest charged on the loan by HSBC  for the reasons explained above  it follows from 
this that I dont feel that HSBC have acted unfairly by choosing to not accept that offer. And 
this is because HSBC arent obliged to accept any settlement offer put to them by an 
account holder and can insist on the repayment of the loan in line with loan agreement.
Finally, I also dont feel that HSBC have acted unfairly by reporting the payments that Mr H 
has chosen to not make towards the loan as missed payments to Mr Hs credit file. This is 
because it isnt the case that the contractual obligations of a loan agreement  including the 
requirement to make the scheduled payments  are in any way suspended because a 
complaint about that loan has been raised. Additionally, HSBC, like all credit providers, are 
obliged to make accurate reports to the credit reference agencies as to whether the 
contractually required payments on a line of credit such as a loan have been made. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr H was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing HSBC to take any action. I hope Mr H will understand, given all 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman