DRN-3533741
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy with a replacement washing machine Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
D&G supplied under her appliance protection policy. 
What happened
Ms W held a policy with D&G which covered her washing machine for breakdown and 
accidental damage. In May 2021, her machine failed and she made a claim. 
D&G sent an engineer to examine her machine, who found it needed new parts that would 
take a couple of weeks to arrive. After hearing nothing back, Ms W chased D&G. It turned 
out the parts were no longer available  so D&G offered a replacement.
After the installation, Ms W found the new machine didnt perform as she expected. It took 
longer to wash, it didnt clean properly and the clothes were too wet at the end of the cycle. 
She was also concerned about its energy efficiency as the rating appeared to be different to 
what D&G had told her it would be.
She complained in early July and D&G rejected her complaint. It suggested that the washing 
machines cycle might take longer than her old one because of changes in energy use to 
ensure it was more efficient. It advised her to speak to the manufacturer or supplier about 
the washing performance as the appliance could be faulty. Mrs W remained unhappy and 
thought D&G should replace her machine again.
Our investigator looked into Ms Ws concerns and said the washing machine D&G supplied 
met the terms of the policy. She didnt think D&G was responsible for the performance of her 
washing machine. However, she found D&G caused Ms W distress as a result of its 
communication with her. Our investigator recommended D&G pay £150 to compensate     
Ms W.
D&G accepted our investigators recommendation. But Ms W disagreed with our 
investigators view. She said the new machine doesnt perform well enough, continues to 
leave her clothes hard and stiff or soaking wet, and £150 isnt enough for her to buy a new 
machine. So, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how frustrating this has been for Ms W. Ive looked very carefully at 
everything thats happened and whether D&G has acted fairly and within the terms and 
conditions of her insurance policy. Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same 
conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Ms Ws policy covered her washing machine against mechanical or electrical breakdown. If 
an appliance couldnt be repaired, the policy would cover the cost to replace it with one of a 
same or similar make and technical specification. So, Ive had to determine whether the 
machine D&G provided to Ms W met the terms of her insurance contract.
Ive listened to the calls between Ms W and D&G. D&G originally said it would send a link to 
a list of machines from which Ms W could choose a replacement. But it later proposed a 
machine for her. It explained the specifications of this machine and Ms W accepted it. By this 
point, Ms W had been without the use of her machine for around five weeks. And as the 
issues with the new one relate to its performance, I dont think having a choice of machines 
and the time to research their specifications would likely have made a difference to the 
outcome. So, I think it was reasonable that D&G proposed a replacement rather than 
sending a list. It also waived the installation and disposal costs which I think was fair given 
the length of time Ms W had waited.
Ive looked carefully at the specifications of the two machines and Ive considered Ms Ws 
comments. The original machine was made in 2008. D&G replaced this with a modern 
machine that has a larger capacity, a faster spin, and other modern features  all in line with 
what D&G told Ms W over the phone.
After the machine arrived, Ms W raised concerns that the energy efficiency rating was D 
when shed been told it was A+++ over the phone. 
D&G said these are all due to the modern specification of the machine and changes in 
energy efficiency regulations. It said the difference in energy rating is due to a change to the 
rating certification scale  where a current D is equivalent to A+++ under the old scale. 
D&G has sent us a copy of the product specification. I can see from this that whilst the 
product is showing as D rated, it also shows a Pre 2021 energy rating of A+++. So, Im 
satisfied that what D&G told Ms W was correct.
Ms W found the new washing machine didnt perform as well as her old one. The eco wash 
took much longer, the quick wash left her laundry soaking wet and stains werent removed 
properly. I appreciate this is frustrating for Ms W. But D&G has commented that the 
programmes and time a wash can take has changed from when Ms W purchased her 
previous machine because appliances have been improved to consume less energy. I think 
this is a reasonable explanation for why Ms W has found she needs to put her clothes in for 
a longer wash. And I think its likely this would be the case with any modern machine D&G 
supplied.
Having reviewed the specifications of both machines, Im satisfied that D&G has done what 
the policy terms required it to do. As the replacement has a higher spin speed, there should 
be a programme with which Ms W can properly spin her clothes. D&G did suggest Ms W 
speak to the manufacturer to ensure there are no faults with her machine, which I think was 
a reasonable suggestion, given that it had a 12 month manufacturer warranty. So, I wont be 
asking D&G to supply a further machine.
Ive also considered the length of time D&G took to deal with Ms Ws claim and its 
communication with her.  Ms W had to wait almost three weeks for an engineer to look at her 
machine. After D&G told her that her machine needed new parts, it failed to tell her that the 
parts werent available. It wasnt until Ms W called D&G that this was revealed. She also had 
difficulty getting through to D&G on the phone on several occasions. I understand Ms W was 
without a washing machine for around six weeks. Ms W needed her machine replaced 
quickly, because she has a disability which meant she wasnt able to use public transport to 
visit a laundrette. So, I think this would have been particularly distressing and inconvenient 
for her. However, D&G covered the costs of Ms Ws new washing machines installation and the 
disposal of her old one. Its also agreed to pay the £150 our investigator recommended for 
distress and inconvenience. And I think this is a fair amount to put things right.
Putting things right
D&G should pay Ms W £150 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ws complaint and direct Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman