DRN-4056916
The complaint
Mr O complains about how BUPA Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against his private 
dental insurance plan.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr O is a member of a group private dental insurance plan via 
his employer. In June 2022, he phoned BUPA and said that he had a severe case of 
bruxism (teeth grinding) and required composite bonding. BUPA told Mr O that the claim 
would be considered against the fillings benefit of £375. Mr O said that he thought it was 
restorative treatment.
In September 2022, Mr O had treatment and made a claim of £3,700 in relation to 12 
composite fillings.  
BUPA settled Mr Os claim in part and paid the maximum of £375 under the fillings 
benefit. Mr O didnt think that was fair. He says that BUPA should deal with his claim as 
one for restorative dental treatment. Mr O provided a letter dated 30 September 2022, 
which he said was from his treating dentist. That letter said that Mr O had restorative 
treatment for bruxism.  
In November 2022, BUPA paid Mr O an additional £1,000 under the emergency dental 
treatment benefit. Mr O didnt think that was sufficient and pursued his complaint. BUPA 
maintained its position that Mr Os fillings didnt come within the restorative benefit of the 
plan. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She thought that Mr Os 
treatment came within the restorative benefit part of the plan. The investigator said that 
whilst the membership guide doesnt define restorative dental treatment, its clear that 
composite fillings are included in restorative treatment. She said that if BUPA wanted to 
exclude fillings as part of restorative treatment it should have made that clear in the 
documentation. 
The investigator recommended that BUPA reassess Mr Os claim under the restorative 
dental treatment benefit, which provides a benefit of 80% of the treatment costs up to a 
limit of £3,000.
Mr O agreed with the investigator, but BUPA didnt. It said that the documentation makes 
it clear that fillings are dealt with separately from other restorative treatment. The 
investigator considered what BUPA said but didnt change her view.
BUPA asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so the complaint was passed to 
me to decide. 
My provisional decision
On 15 March 2023, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I indicated 
that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I said:
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of Mr Os plan, the relevant parts of which 
say as follows:
2. Bupa Dental Plan Table of Cover
[]
Preventative and Restorative benefits
Preventative dental treatment
[]
Restorative dental treatment
Fillings/root canal[] £375 per policy year
[]
Restorative dental treatment [] 80% up to £3,000 per policy year
Other dental benefits
[]
Emergency dental treatment [] £1,000 per policy year consisting of four 
emergencies, up to £250 each
[]
3.4 Restorative dental treatment
Please use this section to understand whats covered and whats not covered by treatment 
type.
Please also refer to Section 2 Dental Plan Table of Cover to understand the maximum 
amount of benefits you can claim up to per person per policy year for Restorative dental 
treatment according to your level of cover.
You can claim 100% of your money back for the cost of a filling, root canal and extraction, up 
to your benefit limit per policy year. You can claim 80% towards the cost of any other 
restorative dental treatment, up to your benefit limits, according to your level of cover, per 
person, per policy year (my emphasis).
[]
Whats covered
[]
Fillings including amalgam or composite fillings
[]
has the claim been handled unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont propose to 
uphold Mr Os complaint because I dont think that BUPA treated him unfairly or 
unreasonably in its handling of his claim. I say that because:   
Mr O provided a letter of 30 September 2022  the same day he spoke with BUPA - 
which he says was from his treating dentist. That letter isnt signed or on headed 
stationary. Its from a different dentist than the one Mr O named in his claim form. 
And it contains a grammatical error repeated in Mr Os explanation of his complaint to 
this service. On balance, I dont think that I can safely conclude that the letter of      30 September 2022 is from Mr Os treating dentist. The content of that letter isnt the 
determining issue in this case in any event. 
Its not in dispute that Mr O had 12 fillings. The central question for me to decide is 
whether BUPA treated Mr O unfairly or unreasonably in paying only part of his claim. 
I think that theres been confusion about terminology. BUPA said in its final response 
to Mr O that fillings dont fall under the cover for restorative benefit. Thats not 
correct. Fillings are part of restorative treatment. Thats clear from both the Bupa 
Dental Plan Table of Cover and the part of the membership guide relating to 
restorative treatment which Ive set out above.
  
Theres a limit of £375 per policy year for fillings which are part of restorative 
treatment. The membership guide explains that Mr O may claim 80% of the cost of 
any other restorative dental treatment, up to his benefit limit of £3,000. Mr O didnt 
have any other restorative treatment  he had fillings. 
It would have been clearer if the Bupa Dental Plan Table of Cover had referred to 
Any other restorative dental treatment, rather than Restorative dental 
treatment. But I dont think that led to a lack of clarity in this case, as the 
membership guide explains that Mr O can claim 100% of the cost of fillings and 80% 
towards the cost of any other restorative dental treatment, up to his benefit limits. 
In addition, Ive listened to the recording of the phone call between Mr O and BUPA 
in June 2022. BUPA explained correctly that Mr Os claim would be dealt with under 
the policy limits for fillings, which is £375 per year. So, BUPA provided Mr O with 
accurate information before he had his treatment.   
BUPA settled Mr Os claim in accordance with the limit of £375 for fillings which are 
part of restorative treatment and subsequently paid £1,000 for emergency dental 
treatment. I think it acted fairly in doing so. Based on what Ive seen and heard, there 
are no grounds on which I could fairly direct BUPA to pay Mr O more.
Responses to my provisional decision
BUPA said that it agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Mr O 
didnt agree. He said:
When  he first spoke with BUPA about this he wasnt aware what composite 
bonding meant.
If he thought that BUPA wouldnt cover his treatment, he would not have proceeded.
 
His dentist told him that his treatment was restorative dental treatment for prevention, 
not cosmetic treatment and that this would be covered by BUPA up to £3,000.
His dentist, Dr S, drafted the letter of 30 September 2022 and had a conversation 
with BUPA about this, which I should listen to. Dr K is named on his claim form as 
she is a specialist dentist who provided the treatment, but Dr S is his dentist who 
diagnosed him with bruxism.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O says that he wasnt aware what composite bonding meant. But when Mr O spoke with 
BUPA in June 2022, BUPA told Mr O that his claim would be considered against the fillings 
benefit of £375. So, I think BUPA gave Mr O the information he needed about his claim, and 
it did so before he had the treatment. 
BUPA isnt bound by any assurances Mr O received from his dentist about how BUPA would 
deal with his claim. 
I note what Mr O says about the letter dated 30 September 2022 from Dr S. I accept that    
Dr K is named as the dentist on the application form, as she was the treating dentist. The 
evidential value of the letter from Dr S is low as its unsigned and not on business stationary. 
But as I said in the provisional decision, the content of that letter isnt the determining issue 
in this case. 
Mr O has invited me to listen to a phone call between Dr S and BUPA. I dont think I need to 
listen to that phone call for the fair resolution of this complaint. Thats because an exchange 
between Dr S and BUPA doesnt alter the fact that BUPA dealt with Mr Os claim under the 
terms of the policy, and I dont think that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in doing so. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but for the reasons in the provisional decision and above, there 
are no grounds on which I can fairly direct BUPA to pay Mr O more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman