DRN-2240368
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995. Miss C says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Miss C says that the PPI sale was over the phone. But Barclays has told us it was during a 
meeting. To be fair to Miss C Ive decided this complaint on the basis that the policy was 
sold face-to-face, and that Barclays recommended her to take it. 
Because the sale was so long ago, Barclays no longer has a copy of the policy that was in 
use that far back. So, Ive looked at the earliest Barclays policy we have, to decide what the 
likely terms and conditions were. 
The credit card application form, to which I refer below, shows that Miss C initially applied for 
two credit cards  one Visa and one Mastercard. But Barclays has only been able to find 
records of the Mastercard. So Ive assumed thats the only one Miss C proceeded with.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. As Miss C 
disagreed, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss C has told us that Barclays led her to believe that the PPI was a condition of getting 
the credit card. But I think Barclays made it clear that Miss C didnt have to take out the 
PPI and she chose to take it out. I say this, because Ive seen Miss Cs signed credit 
card application form. This has a section in it dealing with PPI. I can see that there is a 
tick in the box in this section requesting the insurance. It is likely that it was Barclays 
representative who filled in the form in this way. But, on balance, I think that they would 
have discussed Miss Cs wishes with her before completing the application that way, and 
that she would have had the opportunity to check it before signing. Because of the time 
that has passed, I can understand why Miss C no longer remembers this. 
I think its likely that Barclays recommended the PPI to Miss C. This means that it had to 
check that the PPI was right for her. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was because:
oMiss C was likely to have been eligible for the policy;
oMiss C wasnt adversely affected by any of the likely PPI restrictions or limitations  
such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
oThe insurance cost no more than 70 pence a month. And, following a successful 
claim, it would have been likely to pay 10% of her credit card balance a month had 
she been off work because of accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. 
These payments would have likely been made regardless of any other means Miss C 
had to help her make her monthly credit card payments. And would likely have 
continued for up to 12 months, which is twice the period for which Miss C has told us 
she would have been entitled to sick pay from her employer. So I think the policy 
could have been of use to her;
oThe PPI was competitively priced by reference to other similar polices available in the 
market at the time. And it had a reasonable benefit;
oMiss C has told us that her main priority at the time was to keep down her outgoings. 
But she requested the policy on her credit card application form. And I havent seen 
anything to suggest that she couldnt afford the premiums. In any event, as it was 
paid for monthly, had she later felt that the policy was unaffordable for her or that she 
no longer wanted it, Miss C could have cancelled it at any time without further cost.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for her if something had gone wrong. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
Ive thought about everything Miss C has said - including what she has said about feeling 
pressured into taking the PPI. But she has said that Barclays told her that she would benefit 
from the insurance as it would cover payments if she were not working. I find that there is 
nothing misleading in this representation. And that it doesnt amount to undue pressure. So, 
in the absence of any other evidence in this regard, this and Miss Cs other points dont 
change my decision.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss C because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss C about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Miss C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss C. 
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Miss C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 December 2020. 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman