DRN-3871757
The complaint
Mr N has complained about a mortgage application he wanted to make with HSBC UK Plc 
trading as first direct. 
He says he received a text message to say the application was progressing, but when he 
phoned first direct four months later he was told first direct was still awaiting some 
information from him which meant no rate had been booked.
What happened
Mr N called first direct on 27 February 2022. He said he wanted an agreement in principle for 
a new mortgage for home improvements. The mortgage was agreed in principle in that call 
and Mr N was told what the next steps would be; that is, what information first direct required 
from him and that once that was in there would be a further call at which time advice would 
be given, the full application made, and the rate would be booked.
First direct received the payslip it needed, but unfortunately the corresponding transaction 
didnt appear on the bank statement as the statement didnt cover the same time period as 
the payslip pay date.
On 1 March first direct sent some text messages to Mr N, saying it still needed a full months 
bank statement showing his February salary credit.
In the meantime first direct received a signature page from Mr N that it had also needed, and 
on 7 March it sent him a text message to confirm receipt of that, and said it was processing 
the application.
Nothing further happened until Mr N called first direct on 27 July. He said hed been trying to 
call for months but had been unable to get through, and he raised a complaint. Mr N was 
unhappy that hed not been told information was still outstanding, and that no rate had been 
booked with rates increasing since the initial call.
First direct didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr N had provided his February payslip, but 
that wasnt covered in the period first direct had authority to view Mr Ns bank statement for. 
It said its phone lines are open 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, and whilst the mortgage 
team didnt work all those hours, if the general customer service team were unable to help, 
they would have passed a message to the mortgage team asking them to call Mr N back. It 
also said that the 7 March text message only related to the signature page that was needed, 
and it hadnt received the information that had been requested on 1 March. It offered £50 
compensation to reflect any confusion that had been caused by the 7 March text message.
Mr N didnt agree and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He said Mr N was told in the original call that no rate had been booked and that a 
further call would be needed once first direct had all the information it needed. He said that 
first direct didnt have authority to view Mr Ns bank statements for the period that matched 
the payslip Mr N had provided, and a text had been sent to request the outstanding 
information.
Mr N didnt agree and so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. Where the 
available evidence is incomplete, contradictory or missing, our rules require me to reach my 
conclusions on the basis of what I consider is most likely to have happened on the balance 
of probabilities. 
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at. For that reason I wont be answering 
Mr Ns questions, such as why first direct didnt have a copy of the 7 March text message as 
that point doesnt impact the overall outcome of this complaint.
Mr N said that hed applied for a five-year fixed rate mortgage, but thats not the case. Mr N 
hadnt applied for a mortgage at all, let alone a specific rate. All he had was an agreement in 
principle. Ive listened to the call of 27 February and Im satisfied no mortgage rates were 
discussed at that time. Mr N asked about what selections he should make on the website to 
see the likely rates available, but that is as far as it went. There was no mention of any 
specific rate or any confirmation anything had been booked. Mr N was told that would come 
in a second call which would take place after first direct had all the information it needed.
First direct needed one payslip and a bank statement (to cover a full month) which showed 
that specific salary credit. The need for them to match was explained at the time the 
information request was made. Unfortunately, Mr N provided his February payslip, but gave 
first direct consent to view his bank statement for the period that covered his January salary 
credit  not his February salary credit.
On 1 March first direct sent some text messages to Mr N. These said:
Thanks for sending us your mortgage documents but we still need Complete 1 Month 
Bank statement for Mr. showing February Salary Credit.
You can do this using the original link and reference provided. Any queries, please call [].
If you are in the process of sending these, we will confirm once we have received them. If 
not please send these so we can progress your application.
At this point it should have been clear to Mr N that first direct required that information from 
him, but he didnt provide it.
Whilst first direct sent a further text message on 7 March, that said Thanks for sending your 
signature form so clearly didnt relate to the outstanding bank statement that first direct had 
already requested.
I can see why Mr N may have been confused as the 7 March message also said Were now 
on with processing your application and well be in touch soon but equally theres nothing 
in that which says that the outstanding information that had already been requested now wasnt needed, and Mr N didnt make contact with first direct to check that. Theres also no 
record of Mr N following this up at any point before 25 July, despite him not having had the 
advice call, made a formal full application, booked a rate or received a formal mortgage 
offer.
Mr N says that he tried to contact first direct over that time and couldnt get through. That is 
unusual bearing in mind first directs general phone line is open 24/7/365, and the mortgage 
specific team are available 7 days a week between 8am and 8pm (Sunday 9am to 8pm). On 
top of that the website mentions the online live chat function, a postal address and other 
phone numbers. Mr N said the number he was given went through to the wrong department, 
but Ive listened to the call he made to that number and I can hear he was immediately 
transferred to the correct department without delay so that wouldnt have been a barrier to 
him discussing his mortgage application.
First direct had notified Mr N it needed his bank statement showing his February salary 
credit. It had no responsibility to chase up that information with him and whilst Mr N was 
confused by the 7 March text message, Im satisfied he would have been able to contact first 
direct much sooner than he did when he heard nothing further. He would have been aware 
that he hadnt had the second call and so hadnt booked an interest rate, completed a full 
mortgage application, or received a formal mortgage offer.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied first direct hadnt received the information it 
needed from Mr N and it had notified him of that fact. The later text message confirming 
receipt of a different piece of information doesnt override that. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that Im satisfied first directs offer of £50 in respect 
of any confusion caused by the 7 March text message is fair and reasonable. If that payment 
hasnt already been made, I leave it to Mr N to contact first direct to accept that offer if he 
now wants to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman