DRN-4480159
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) refused to refund him for a transaction on his 
account he says he didnt make.
What happened
Mr S says he was not responsible for making a transaction on his account on 15 April 2023 
for £896.35 (20,000 Mexican Peso).
Monzo say the transaction in question was made using Mr Ss actual card and personal 
identification number (PIN) while he was abroad in Mexico  where the card was used. So, 
they think Mr S made or consented to the transactions himself. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and decided not to uphold the complaint. She 
reached this outcome on the basis that the transaction was made using Mr Ss card and PIN, 
and Mr Ss evidence is that he had his card on him and he had not shared his PIN. So, she 
felt it was more likely Mr S made the transactions himself, or they were made by someone 
acting on his behalf. 
Mr S didnt agree with this outcome, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I must make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what 
I consider more likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply  specifically 
whether the customer was grossly negligent in looking after their card and PIN  but nothing 
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So, when we look at 
whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions themselves or allowed them to be 
made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
Monzo have provided evidence that the transaction in dispute was made with Mr ss genuine 
card and authenticated using the correct PIN. This means whoever made the transactions 
needed to be in possession of Mr Ss card and PIN.
Mr S has confirmed his card was in his possession during this time. He has told us that he 
used the card and PIN about 20 minutes prior to the disputed transaction at a restaurant in 
Mexico. He has said that no one else knows his PIN or has access to his card. If this is the 
case, then its difficult to see how fraudsters were able to carry out the disputed transaction 
using Mr Ss genuine card and PIN. 
The location information for Mr Ss disputed transaction shows an address near Mexico City 
and Mr S was in another part of Mexico at the time. Ive thought about what Mr S has said 
about the transaction location being too far from where he was for it to possible that he made 
the transaction himself. But Monzo have explained that the location information will often 
refer to a companys head office or routing address for payments, not necessarily where the 
transaction took place. And since the transaction was made using Mr Ss physical card, I 
think its likely that the location address shown for the transaction is another address linked 
to the business to which the payment was made. 
Ive also considered what Mr S has said about the possibility that a fraudster may have 
cloned his card when he used it in a restaurant. But we are yet to see evidence that it is 
possible to clone a debit/credit card chip. And, as this was now some time ago, Mr S cant 
remember exactly what happened in the restaurant and hasnt given us any plausible 
explanation about how his PIN may have been compromised. So, I am not persuaded that 
this transaction was made by someone else, and so it follows that I think its more likely this 
transaction was authorised and consented by Mr S or someone acting on his behalf. 
Given everything Mr S has said, this outcome is likely to come as a disappointment to him. I 
know that Mr S is unhappy that he feels hes been called a liar  and this is not my intention 
in this decision. I have considered the evidence in front of me, and without being present at 
the time, Ive had to decide what is more likely to have happened. Considering everything 
Ive outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint so Monzo do not have to do anything 
further.    
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman