DRN-3349571
The complaint
Mr F complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) was irresponsible to lend to
him.
What happened
Mr F had four instalment loans from Mr Lender between January 2020 and September 2020 
as follows:
Loan Date Amount TermMax Monthly
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 9 Jan 2020 £200 3m £96.35 20 Mar 202015 May 2020
2 x deferrals
2 26 May 2020 £200 3m £96.35 7 Aug 2020 5 Jun 2020
3 20 Aug 2020 £300 6m £106.00 21 Jan 2021 14 Sep 2020
4 29 Sep 2020 £200 3m £116.26 24 Dec 20207 Oct 2020
Withdrew
Mr F says the loans were unaffordable and if Mr Lender had done better checks it would 
have seen that. He says he had multiple other short-term loans, was missing payments 
on his rent and bills and had to borrow further to make repayments. Mr F says his debt 
increased substantially in the lead up to the Mr Lender loans and two loan accounts were 
defaulted in 2020.
Mr Lender says it carried out checks that were in line with its responsible lending policies. It 
says those checks included an income and expenditure assessment, employment 
confirmation, a credit check and a review of previous borrowing. Mr Lender says the 
checks indicated the loans were affordable but, as a gesture of goodwill, it offered Mr F a 
£25 shopping voucher.
Mr F did not accept this offer.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr F had
provided a full credit report from the credit agency used by Mr Lender and that it showed he
already had six outstanding short-term loans when he applied for loan 1. She considered it
likely that Mr Lender also had this information and should have realised the loans were
unsustainable. Our adjudicator said Mr Lender should refund the interest charged on the
loans (plus 8% statutory interest) and remove any negative information about them from
Mr Fs credit file.
Mr Lender responded to say that the results of its credit checks showed just one outstanding
short-term loan at the time of loan 2. It says Mr F had a good credit score with no defaults or
delinquent accounts and that it asked him to include any payments to short-term loans in his
expenditure figures.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr F and to Mr Lender on 31 January 2022. Ive 
summarised my findings:
For all the loans I was satisfied that Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks and 
that those checks indicated the loans were affordable to Mr F;
I acknowledged Mr F provided a credit file which showed other high-cost lending at 
the time, but I didnt find Mr Lender was obliged to carry out the level of checks that 
would have been required to show such detail;
So, in summary, my provisional decision was that I did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Lender responded to say that it did not have any further information.
Mr F responded to say, in summary:
In January 2020 he had multiple loans with other high-cost lenders and the following 
month he went into arrears on two of them and subsequently defaulted;
There were at least two new credit applications before loan 2 and his credit file 
showed missed payments and payment plans which continued until loans 3 and 4;
His bank statement showed returned direct debits for priority bills and hed agreed to 
reduced rent payments for three months which he then had to pay back;
That this service upheld another complaint about a loan taken out the same day, for 
which he has submitted the credit check results;
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thoroughly reviewed the information Mr F has now submitted and I can see the results 
of the credit check carried out by the other lender show substantial credit commitments at 
the time of the lending. However, as long as a lender has taken reasonable steps to ensure 
it isnt lending irresponsibly, then it is not obliged to carry out a defined set of checks. In this 
case, Mr Lender didnt request a full credit check, or bank statements, but I still find its 
checks were proportionate to the circumstances of the lending:
For each loan, the repayments were a small proportion of Mr Fs declared income 
(around 5%);
oWhen Mr F applied for his third loan, Mr Lender also verified this income 
figure;Mr Lender also asked Mr F about his expenditure and, because of the circumstances 
of the borrowing, Im satisfied it was entitled to rely on the information he provided;
Although Mr Lender didnt complete a full credit check, it did request data about 
Mr Fs credit score, any adverse markers and summary loan information, including a 
specific search for short-term loans;
As part of his applications, Mr F was also asked about his existing credit 
commitments (including short-term loans);
oThere was nothing to indicate that the figures Mr F provided for his credit 
repayments needed to be verified, based on the results of Mr Lenders credit 
checks.
I acknowledge that Mr F has had his complaint upheld about the other lender, for a loan he 
took out the same day. However, I can see from the credit check Mr F has now provided, 
that the other lenders checks showed very different results. That said, as I found Mr Lender 
had taken reasonable steps to assess the applications, I dont find it can be held responsible 
for any omissions from an externally sourced credit check. In addition, as each case is 
considered based on its individual merits, I cannot comment on the different outcome in the 
other case.
In summary, as I am satisfied that Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks in the 
circumstances of this lending, I cant conclude that it needed to do any additional checks 
before making its lending decisions. The results of those checks indicated the lending was 
affordable to Mr F and so I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
Mr Lenders offer of a shopping voucher is still available to Mr F if he now wishes to claim it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman
