DRN-4407263
The complaint
Mr P complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans irresponsibly 
gave him a fixed sum loan agreement he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr P entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Everyday Loans. The 
loan was for £1,800 repayable by 24 monthly instalments of £138.45. The total repayable 
was £3,322.80.
Mr P complained to Everyday Loans in December 2022. He said that the loan had been 
unaffordable from the outset and appropriate checks werent completed before lending to 
him. Everyday Loans didnt agree it had acted unfairly. It said it had completed thorough 
checks which included reviewing his bank statements and payslips and these showed he 
had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan.
I sent Mr P and Everday Loans my provisional decision on 3 October 2023. I explained why 
I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I said:
As part of the application for the loan Everyday Loans reviewed two months of bank 
statements and a payslip provided by Mr P. It also completed a credit check, used 
statistical data to estimate his likely living expenditure and it discussed Mr Ps 
financial and personal circumstances with him over the telephone. Overall, Im 
satisfied it completed proportionate affordability checks as it gathered a reasonably 
detailed picture of Mr Ps financial situation, with sufficient evidence. Ive therefore 
thought about what that information and evidence showed and whether Everyday 
Loans made a fair lending decision.
Everyday Loans could see that Mr P had an income of around £2,300 per month and 
had no rent or mortgage commitment as his accommodation was provided for by his 
employer. He had existing credit commitments which he was paying around £1,300 
per month, and the credit check revealed these had been managed well. It also 
estimated Mr Ps likely living costs to be around £700 per month and this didnt seem 
unreasonable by what it could see from his bank statements.
While Mr P did utilise his overdraft, he wasnt consistently overdrawn and his income 
would always place his account comfortably in a credit balance. It was also clear that 
one of his largest monthly credit commitments would be satisfied within two months 
of taking out this loan so that his outgoings would reduce by around £350 each 
month. Further, he had told Everyday Loans that the purpose of the new loan was to 
clear his existing credit card debt. So, this loan wouldnt be increasing his overall 
debt.
Taking all of this into consideration, Ive not seen anything to persuade me that 
Everyday Loans made an unfair lending decision when granting this loan to Mr P. It 
completed proportionate affordability checks and those checks didnt reveal that the 
loan was likely to be unaffordable.
Neither Mr P nor Everyday Loans responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence to provide, Ive seen no reason to 
reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. For the same 
reasons Im therefore satisfied that Everyday Lending didnt make an unfair lending decision 
when it granted Mr P the loan in 2021. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman