DRN-3043976
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very (Shop Direct)
overcharged interest on his account for a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) purchase.
What happened
On 23 March 2019, Mr I made some purchases totalling £561.19 on his Shop Direct account
using BNPL. This allowed him to defer his payment for 12 calendar months until 27 March
2020. Although calculated from the date of the order, Mr I could avoid paying interest if he
repaid the full balance before the BNPL period expired.
In addition to this BNPL purchase, Mr I also had a shopping account balance of £44.67 and
other newer BNPL purchases which expired on different dates. On 26 March 2020, Mr I
made a payment of £400 to his Shop Direct account. He says he expected this payment to
clear his outstanding shopping account balance and the remaining £355.33 to be credited
towards the March 2020 BNPL purchase which was due the next day.
Mr I explained he understood that the partial payment of £355.33 wouldnt clear the full
BNPL balance but he expected it to reduce the amount of interest he would pay. He
complained to Shop Direct as he was charged the full interest of £287.51. He believes he
should only be charged interest on the maturing BNPL balance of £205.86 (after deducting
the partial payment of £355.33 from the BNPL purchase of £561.19). And based on his
calculations the interest should be around £105.
Shop Direct told Mr I that since he didnt tell them how to allocate the payment, it wasnt
automatically applied towards the BNPL purchases which was due to expire in March 2020.
But as a gesture of goodwill they agreed to allocate his payment towards a separate BNPL
purchase which was due to mature in April 2020. They also agreed to unpick some previous
payments and reallocate them, resulting in a partial reduction of BNPL interest of £30.13.
Mr I was still unhappy and referred his complaint to our service. An investigator looked at the
complaint and upheld it. She said that Shop Direct hadnt correctly allocated the payment of
£400 as per the terms and conditions. She explained that the partial payment shouldve
been applied to the next BNPL purchase due. And in this case, it was the March 2020 BNPL
purchase.
To put things right, the investigator asked Shop Direct to unpick the transaction, allocate the
payment to the March 2020 BNPL purchase and recalculate the interest. She also asked
Shop Direct to pay Mr I £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr I accepted this but Shop Direct didnt agree. They said on further review of the account,
they had applied the partial payment to the March 2020 BNPL purchase, and Mr I wasnt due
any interest refund. They agreed to pay £100 compensation but not to the other
recommendations made by the investigator, so the complaint was passed to me for a
decision.
What I had provisionally decided
I issued a provisional decision on 5 August 2021, and I made the following findings:
Interest payable
The terms and conditions of Mr Is account explains how interest is calculated on BNPL
purchases. It says:
With BNPL, interest is calculated from date of order, compounded every 28 days
during the delayed payment period (so you are charged interest on interest) and will
be applied to your account as a lump sum immediately after the delayed payment
period ends.
Interest will accrue on the cost of the item purchased for the deferred payment period
and will be charged to your account at the end of the deferred payment period. The
interest will then be payable unless you pay for the cost of the item purchased in full
before the end of the deferred payment period. Therefore if you want to avoid paying
interest for the deferred payment period you MUST pay the full cost before the end of
the deferred payment period.
This means Mr Is BNPL purchase of £561.19 has been incurring interest from the date of
his order of 23 March 2019 and has been compounded every 28 days. The accrued interest
would be payable unless Mr I had cleared the full BNPL balance before 27 March 2020.
And whilst Mr I made a partial payment, he hasnt repaid the entire BNPL balance. On this
basis, hes still liable to pay the accrued interest in line with the terms and conditions of the
account.
I appreciate that Mr I was under the impression that by making partial payments, hed reduce
the interest being accrued. And hes not entirely wrong. Since the interest is compounded
every 28 days, had he made partial payments throughout the BNPL period  or towards the
beginning of it  he wouldve reduced the amount of interest being accrued each month. But
by making a partial payment only one day before the deferred period ended, the majority of
the interest had already been accrued and the reduction would be minimal.
Payment allocation
I understand theres been some confusion over whether the payment of £400 was allocated
correctly.
The terms and conditions of Mr Is account says that he must allocate payments towards
specific BNPL purchases. Mr I didnt tell Shop Direct to target the partial payment of £355.33
towards the March 2020 BNPL purchase.
In this situation, Id expect Shop Direct to allocate the payment in the order set out within the
allocation of payments section of the terms and conditions. This confirms that any
outstanding balance on the shopping account will be credited in the first instance  which is
what happened here.
After this, it says the remaining payment shouldve been credited towards the March 2020
BNPL purchase, as Mr I intended. But I dont think its clear if this happened as Shop Direct
initially said they allocated it to the BNPL purchase due in April 2020. They later confirmed it
had been correctly applied to the March BNPL purchase.
I can see Shop Direct unpicked some transactions which resulted in an interest refund of
£30.13. They also applied an interest refund of £165.53 which was due on the BNPLbalance of April 2020, despite Mr I being liable for the accrued interest.
Im satisfied Shop Direct have done enough to ensure Mr I hasnt been financially
disadvantaged by the confusion over the payment allocation. I say this because Mr I
wouldve still been responsible for the accrued interest on both March and April 2020 BNPL
purchases as the full BNPL balances werent repaid. So, I wont be asking them to do
anything more.
Shop Direct have agreed to pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, which
Mr I has accepted too.
I appreciate Mr I was worried about whether he was overcharged interest  particularly since
he has told us he was experiencing financial difficulties at the time. I think that was likely
exacerbated by Shop Direct failing to give clear and consistent information throughout this
complaint. As such, I think its fair for Shop Direct to pay the £100 compensation they agreed
to.
Responses to my provisional decision
I asked both parties to respond to my provisional decision and provide any further evidence 
or arguments they wanted me to consider.
In summary, Mr I asked me to review the terms and conditions and statements which say 
that any partial payments towards the BNPL balance would reduce the compound interest. 
And therefore, he doesnt feel hes liable for the full amount of compound interest. He also 
feels that Shop Direct should refund the interest due on the BNPL balance of March 2020, 
as they did so for the BNPL balance of April 2020.
Shop Direct agreed to settle the complaint in the way I suggested in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of any doubt, Id like to confirm that Ive reviewed both the statements and 
the terms and conditions of the account.
I dont disagree with Mr I that making payments towards the BNPL balance will reduce the 
compound interest. In this particular instance, Mr I has already received an interest refund of 
around £30.13. But given the date of the partial payment he made, a further interest 
reduction wont apply. Ill explain why.
The statements and terms and conditions of account state that BNPL interest will be charged 
from the date of purchase. Interest is then calculated on the average daily balance and 
compounded every 28 days which is applied to the account as a lump sum immediately after 
the BNPL period ends. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, based on how interest is calculated, a larger 
reduction of interest would apply  if repayments are spread across the BNPL period or a 
partial payment is made towards the beginning. 
 
However, Mr I made a partial payment of £355.33 only a day before the BNPL ended. This 
means the compounded interest had already been accrued on the full balance from the date 
of purchase. So, he is liable to pay it, in line with the terms and conditions of the account.I appreciate Shop Direct refunded the interest for the April BNPL, but this doesnt mean they 
can fairly be expected to do the same for the March BNPL. This is because Mr I is 
responsible to pay the accrued interest as he didnt repay the full BNPL balance.
Having carefully considered Mr Is further points, I havent been persuaded to alter the 
conclusions reached in my provisional decision. Shop Direct have done enough to put things 
right here  they unpicked some transactions and gave Mr I an interest refund of £30.13 to 
ensure he wasnt financially disadvantaged. Theyve also agreed to pay Mr I £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Im satisfied this is a fair resolution to this complaint and I wont be asking Shop Direct to do 
anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited (trading as very) should pay Mr I £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman