DRN-4131747
The complaint
Mrs E complained, on behalf of the estate of Mrs P, that the amount of redress offered by 
AXA France IARD (AXA), in relation to the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy with a store card, was incorrect.
What happened
Mrs Es late mother, Mrs P, took out a store card - with PPI - in 1989. Mrs E, on behalf of the 
estate of Mrs P, complained to the card provider about the sale of the PPI policy in 2019. 
However AXA, rather than the card provider, is responsible for answering this complaint, so I 
will only refer to AXA from now on.
AXA upheld the mis-sale complaint, so I do not need to look at the sale of the policy. 
Therefore, in this decision I am only considering the amount of redress offered.
AXA offered redress of £2,319.51 in a letter issued in August 2019. The letter also said that 
the calculation of redress was partly based on estimated figures, as AXA didnt have a full 
list of transactions before 2005. Mrs E sent a number of card statements for Mrs Ps account 
to AXA, covering much of the period between October 1989 and September 2001. After 
reviewing these statements, AXA recalculated the redress using the new information about 
the transactions on the card. This resulted in a lower redress offer of £1,907.95.
Mrs E was unhappy about the reduced amount, and wanted to accept the earlier, higher, 
figure. AXA refused this request, and Mrs E then brought the complaint about the redress 
amount to this service.
Our adjudicator looked into this, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
explained that redress is intended to put the consumer into the financial position they would 
have been in if PPI had never been added to the account. In this case, it was simply that the 
lower redress figure was the more accurate of the two, being based on the statement 
information rather than assumptions.
Mrs E accepted this view in August 2021, but a further complaint point has arisen, in that 
AXA has not yet recalculated and paid the correct redress figure. As Mrs E has not received 
the correct redress, she has asked for this to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision in April 2023, in which I explained why I thought this complaint 
should be upheld. Mrs E said in her response that she had nothing further to add. AXA didnt 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to uphold Mrs Es complaint on behalf of the estate of Mrs P, to the extent 
that AXA has not correctly calculated the interest payable for the period for which the late 
Mrs P, and now her estate, have been left out of pocket because of the PPI. Nor has it paid 
the total redress figure. I have also decided that AXA should pay an additional £100 to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs E in having to pursue payment of the correct 
amount. Ill explain why.
In my provisional decision I set out my findings as follows:
As I explained above, AXA initially estimated the redress because it did not have full 
information about the transactions on the store card account. It later updated the calculation 
to reflect statement information provided by Mrs E.
In summary, when calculating redress, wed expect AXA to refund all the PPI premiums 
charged to the store card, as well as any interest, fees or charges that were caused by the 
PPI. Wed also expect AXA to pay an additional 8% simple interest (15% for any period 
before April 1993) for the period the customer was left out of pocket because of the PPI. This 
should be calculated from when the customer was first out of pocket to when the money is 
refunded to them.
The total amount of the PPI premiums charged to the store card was £439.61. In the first 
redress calculation, AXA estimated that interest of £725.14 would have been charged to the 
card because of the PPI. After reviewing the statements provided by Mrs E, AXA was able to 
calculate a more accurate interest figure of £337.28. After the addition of the compensatory 
interest, and the deduction of tax from that interest, the updated redress figure came to 
£1,907.95 as at December 2020.
As noted above, Mrs E was unhappy with the lower figure, and brought her complaint to this 
service. Our adjudicator issued his view in August 2021, explaining that AXAs second 
redress calculation was fair, and Mrs E accepted this.
However, Mrs E notified us in December 2021 that she had not received the redress. AXA 
said it had not received Mrs Es acceptance of the offer, but Mrs E told us that she had not 
received an acceptance form. When this was reissued, AXA had not updated the 
compensatory interest element of the redress to reflect the new payment date. AXA then 
issued a cheque for £1,907.95, which Mrs E did not present as the figure had not been 
updated as expected.
In February 2022, AXA told us it would be issuing a cheque for an updated amount to Mrs E. 
In March 2022, Mrs E told us she had not received it. AXA said it had been issued but not 
presented.
In April 2022, Mrs E again told us that she hadnt received anything. AXA said it would 
reissue the cheque, but by May 2022 it had not arrived. We asked AXA where the cheque 
had been sent, and AXA gave us the address where the late Mrs P had formerly lived. This 
was despite it having Mrs Es address in its records (and indeed earlier correspondence was 
correctly addressed there). I should also say here that Mrs E said she had provided bank 
details for payment of the redress.
In July 2022, Mrs E received a cheque from AXA, but again this was for £1,907.95  so the 
compensatory interest figure had not been updated. Mrs E did not present the cheque. We 
asked AXA about this, but by October Mrs E had heard nothing further. Since then, despite 
further contact with AXA, Mrs E has still not received the redress.
Overall, although the premiums charged to the store card (£439.61) are not in dispute, and 
Im satisfied that it was fair for AXA to recalculate the interest charged to the store card (to 
£337.28) in the light of statements provided by Mrs E, I have concluded that AXA has not treated Mrs E fairly insofar as it has not correctly updated the amount of compensatory 
interest.
I further said in my provisional decision that I proposed to uphold this last element of Mrs Es 
complaint on behalf of the estate of Mrs P, and that AXA should pay an additional £100 to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs E in having to pursue payment of the 
correct amount. As I have received no further evidence or information, I have no reason to 
change my conclusions. So I am upholding this complaint to the extent described above. 
Putting things right
1 - AXA should recalculate the redress due to the estate of Mrs P. The full steps required in 
the calculation of redress on the store card are as follows:
a) find out how much Mrs P would have owed when she closed her store card account if 
the policy hadnt been added to it. So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as 
well as any interest charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges 
that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI, as well as any interest added to those 
charges;
b) AXA must then refund the difference between what Mrs P owed when she closed the 
account and what she would have owed if the policy hadnt been added to it;
c) if Mrs P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes;
d) AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs P would have 
owed when she closed the account from when she closed it until AXA issues the 
refund. The interest rate should be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from 
then on. 
e) if - when AXA works out what Mrs P would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear the balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on 
the extra she paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs P 
would have owed something on the store card. The interest rate should be 15% a 
year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on. 
f) AXA must tell Mrs E, on behalf of the estate of Mrs P, what its done to work out the 
compensation set out above.
2  AXA should pay Mrs E, on behalf of the estate of Mrs P, £100 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its failure to issue the correct redress.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mrs E on 
behalf of the estate of Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Mrs Es complaint on behalf of the estate of Mrs P, to the extent 
that AXA has not correctly calculated the interest payable for the period for which the late 
Mrs P, and now her estate, have been left out of pocket because of the PPI. AXA should 
compensate Mrs E, on behalf of the estate of Mrs P, as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E, on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs P, to accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman