DRN-2117120
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading as TSB) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out PPI alongside their joint mortgage which started in August 1996. This 
protected their mortgage repayments in the event that they couldnt work as a result of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Mr and Mrs W said that during a meeting at the bank to arrange a remortgage on their 
property PPI was also discussed. 
They said that they had explained during the meeting that they were both in full time 
employment and would receive 6 months full pay and 6 months half pay if they were off work 
sick. 
They recall being told that they would still be able to claim on the policy and that if they did, 
Mr W, who was the higher earner, would get 60% of the cover and Mrs W would receive 
40%. 
Mr and Mrs W told us that it was put to them that it was a very good idea to have the policy 
and it was implied that it would help their application. 
Mr and Mrs W told us that neither of them recollect agreeing to take out the policy and for 
many years they were unaware they had it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion.
In summary, in relation to their complaint about mis-sold PPI, Mr and Mrs W mainly said that:
theyve both had long term secure employment
they dont think the benefit split was properly explained
PPI wasnt something they wouldve needed as they always had money left over at 
the end of the month
their sick pay was very good
they had a lot of equity in their home so they couldve downsized if necessary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Neither Lloyds nor Mr and Mrs W could provide any signed paperwork from when the PPI 
was sold. But this isnt surprising given how long ago this sale happened. Mr and Mrs W 
recall arranging their borrowing and the PPI in a meeting and so I think thats probably what 
happened. 
I cant know exactly what was said about PPI when Mr and Mrs W arranged their remortgage 
and took out this policy. After so long, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect them to recall word 
for word what was said at the time. 
This means that what Mr and Mrs W say now isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold this complaint. I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is 
most likely.
In order to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr and Mrs W werent 
given a fair choice about PPI or that it was added to their account without their consent. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional or that Mr and Mrs W wouldve been unaware PPI was being taken out with their 
remortgage. Heres why I say this.
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage was a major financial commitment, repayable over a number of 
years. Their home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
PPI provided dependable protection. It looks to me as if PPI couldve been helpful to 
Mr and Mrs W as it offered them benefits over and above any arrangements they had in 
place already to help them make their mortgage repayments if one or both of them couldnt 
work. So, I can see why they mightve felt this policy was useful to have. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs W wanted to have the benefits that PPI 
offered them and that Lloyds added the policy to their mortgage account when 
Mr and Mrs W decided to buy it.
Lloyds wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. So, in fairness to them, it looked at 
their mis-sale complaint on the basis that its advisor had recommended PPI during the 
meeting Mr and Mrs W recalled having at the bank. 
Given the lack of paperwork showing how Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, I think this is 
the fairest way to assess this complaint as it imposes extra obligations on the lender. If a 
business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy 
information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable.   
Lloyds told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from 1996 when 
Mr and Mrs W took out the PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was in use 
afterwards. So I think its reasonable to rely on this information and I think its likely that the 
policy Mr and Mrs W took out wouldve had substantially the same terms and conditions. 
Lloyds wasnt able to confirm how the policy benefit was split between Mr and Mrs W but 
they clearly recall there was a 60:40 split, with the main benefit being in Mr Ws name. So 
Ive taken this carefully into account when thinking about their complaint. Mr and Mrs W were both in work and contributing to the monthly mortgage repayments. So, 
I think it was appropriate for the policy to be taken out in both their names. And, as Mr W 
was the main earner, it makes sense that the benefit was split between them in the way it 
was. 
I appreciate that the way the policy benefit was shared between them is one of 
Mr and Mrs Ws particular complaints. 
Our adjudicator has explained already that even if the benefit split wasnt correct, this 
wouldve only made a difference if Mr and Mrs W had lost out in money terms as a result of 
the benefit not being properly shared between them. 
That never happened as they made no claim on the policy. So I cant say theyre worse off in 
money terms as a result of the way the benefit was shared between them and this isnt a 
reason for me to uphold their complaint.
Mr and Mrs W have made the point that the only way the policy wouldve paid out the full 
monthly benefit amount was if they both claimed successfully at the same time. But thats 
not a reason to uphold their complaint.
The purpose of this insurance was to replace lost income  and if only one person needed to 
claim then the policy paid out the proportion of benefit chosen to protect that persons 
mortgage contribution. 
If the other person was still able to work then it wouldnt have been necessary for the policy 
to cover that persons share of the mortgage monthly repayments.
And, as Mr and Mrs W say, in the unfortunate event of them both being off work together as 
a result of disability or sickness or unemployment, then the policy wouldve paid 100% of the 
monthly benefit.  
Taking into account Mr and Mrs Ws employment circumstances and their financial 
circumstances, it looks to me as if PPI wouldve been a suitable recommendation based on 
what Mr and Mrs W have said about their situation at the time. 
Ive seen nothing to make me think that they werent both eligible for the PPI policy. 
The policy paid out a monthly benefit that covered Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage repayments for 
up to 12 months per claim. 
Mr and Mrs W were both entitled to 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months on half pay. 
But I think PPI still couldve been useful. It wouldve paid out in full for up to 12 months per 
claim in the event of accident and sickness. So the PPI provided better protection than they 
couldve relied on getting through their employers. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay 
providing Mr and Mrs W with a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if they had some 
extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled. 
PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if either (or both) 
Mr and Mrs W became unexpectedly unemployed. 
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs W have said about selling their property if required. But 
I dont think this would make a recommendation to take PPI unsuitable. Selling a property 
can be a lengthy process and it would be unlikely this would help them meet their mortgage 
repayments each month if they were unable to work. Having PPI meant they werent at risk 
of being forced to sell  perhaps at a time when property prices mightve meant they mightnt get as much as they hoped for. I think that having cover in place so Mr and Mrs W couldve 
continued to make their monthly mortgage repayments without having to sell their home 
provided them with a worthwhile benefit.
There can be no guarantee that any job will always be secure. And PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to any redundancy money they mightve got, giving Mr and Mrs W some additional 
financial security in those circumstances.
And whilst Mr and Mrs W mentioned having money left over at the end of each month, given 
that the mortgage was taken out when they were both in full time employment, I think its 
likely that losing one of their incomes wouldve had a significant impact on their joint 
finances. I havent seen anything to make me think that Mr and Mrs W wouldve been able to 
keep on paying their mortgage for long if one of them wasnt earning and contributing 
towards their share of the mortgage monthly repayments. 
So, overall, I find that the PPI Lloyds sold Mr and Mrs W with their mortgage was suitable. 
Its possible some information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. So I've thought about whether this would make any overall difference to the 
outcome of their complaint. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if those applied in 
Mr and Mrs Ws case. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt 
cover wouldve affected their decision to take it out. 
Mr and Mrs W paid for this policy each month. I havent seen anything to suggest that paying 
for the policy was a problem for them. And they couldve cancelled it at any time without 
incurring any extra cost if they no longer wanted to pay to keep the policy Lloyds sold them. 
On balance, I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold. So Lloyds doesnt have to repay 
everything Mr and Mrs W paid for it.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr and Mrs W have 
said, including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. 
Although Mr and Mrs W mentioned some other things during the course of this complaint 
I can see that our adjudicator has already responded on those issues. Theres nothing more 
I can usefully add to what our adjudicator has already said. 
So in my decision I've concentrated on dealing with the main points raised that affect the 
outcome of their complaint about the way they were sold this PPI. I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will 
help explain how Ive reached my decision.
Mr and Mrs W told us that they didnt make a claim on the insurance when they each had 
periods of long term sickness and were unable to work. This information doesnt affect my 
decision. But they may wish to approach the insurer to see if it would be prepared to accept 
and consider a retrospective claim. If they do so and find that they have concerns in this 
regard, then they should first tell the insurer why theyre unhappy. And if they are unable to 
reach a satisfactory conclusion, Mr and Mrs W may be able to bring a complaint relating to 
the retrospective claim to this Service as a separate matter. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay to 
Mr and Mrs W all of the cost of the PPI that Mr and Mrs W paid.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay to Mr and Mrs W any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium Mr and Mrs W paid. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman