DRN-2248611
The complaint
Ms S complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined a claim after 
her garden fence was damaged.
What happened
Ms S has a home insurance policy with Lloyds which covers her buildings and contents 
amongst other things.
She made a claim after a panel and gate of her garden fence fell over into her garden. At 
first Lloyds declined the claim on the basis that storm damage to fences wasnt covered 
under the policy. There were very high winds at the time the fence collapsed.
Ms S made it clear that she hadnt suggested the wind had caused the fence to collapse. 
Shed said from the outset that the problem was caused by her neighbours piling up items 
against the other side of the fence.
Lloyds admitted their error and asked a surveyor to assess the damage. After receiving his 
report, they declined the claim on the basis that the damage was the result of a gradual 
cause. They felt the fence hadnt been maintained and/or had gradually weakened over time 
due to weathering.
Ms S didnt agree and complained to Lloyds. And when they maintained their position she 
brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong. Ms S 
disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to set out, first of all, what Ms Ss policy covers. 
Its not necessarily the main issue in this case, because Ms S says the fences collapse 
wasnt due to the high winds, but its worth saying at the outset that the policy documents 
make it very clear that damage to fences, hedges or gates caused by storms isnt covered.
This is made clear in the term and conditions, but theres also a top tip at the start of the 
policy document  highlighted and in large, bold text, which draws the customers attention 
to this fact.
In the Section of the policy entitled Buildings Cover, theres a list of potential causes of 
damage which are covered. These are the insured events. They include fire, flood, storm 
(with the proviso that fences, hedges and gates arent covered), subsidence, escape of 
water and so on.
Most policies include a list of insured events. And the list in Ms Ss policy isnt unusual.
Ms S has also paid for optional additional cover for accidental damage. This is defined in the 
policy documents as:
An accident that causes physical damage, which is caused suddenly by an outside 
force and is not expected and not deliberate.
The policy document also includes a list of exclusions from cover. Again, this isnt unusual 
for home insurance policies  and Lloyds list of exclusions is very typical of this kind of 
policy. Its stated very clearly that Lloyds will not cover loss or damage caused by:
A gradually operating cause. This is something that happens gradually over a period 
of time, for example corrosion, damp, condensation, decay or decomposition.
Or by:
Wear and tear.
Or by:
Lack of maintenance.
What Lloyds are getting at here  and again this is not untypical for home insurance policies 
 is that they will pay out if you suffer loss or damage caused by an unexpected or 
unforeseen accidental event. They will not pay out when any part of your buildings wears 
out, comes to the end of its usual useful time, and/or isnt maintained. 
Ill turn now to the events that led to Ms S making her claim. I think there are three possible 
contributory factors which may have played some part in the fence collapsing. The very high 
winds at the time. The age and/or state of the fence itself. And the items the neighbours 
appear to have placed on the other side of the fence  which Ms S says were leaning on it 
and caused it to collapse.
Having looked at the photographs of the damage which were available to Lloyds, I think its 
most likely that the fences collapse was a result of the combination of high winds and 
deterioration in the fence. 
I can see that the fence isnt new, isnt recently painted or treated and appears in places to 
be damp, mouldy and possibly rotten near the base. I suspect the high winds simply 
highlighted and exposed the weakness in the fence and caused it to collapse.
The items in the neighbours garden are mostly  though not entirely  still in place. They 
havent fallen over and come to rest on top of the now horizontal fence panel. For example, I 
can see a stack of tyres. That stack hasnt toppled over once the fence fell away  which 
suggests it wasnt leaning on the fence.
So, I think its most likely the damage was caused primarily by the age and state of the fence 
in combination with the high winds - which provided the force which finally toppled the fence. 
Its certainly not unreasonable for Lloyds to conclude that given all of the evidence. 
Even if Lloyds are mistaken and the fence collapsed wholly as a result of the neighbour 
placing items against it, I dont think that kind of damage is covered by Ms Ss policy. Its certainly not included in the list of insured events in the main section on buildings cover. 
And Im satisfied it doesnt meet the definition of accidental damage set out in the policy 
document. I bear in mind particularly that accidental damage is caused suddenly according 
to that definition.
I know this will disappoint Ms S - and I am sorry that her fence collapsed and caused her this 
trouble  but Im satisfied Lloyds havent acted unfairly or unreasonably towards her by 
declining her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman