DRN-3291619
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (GLI) has unfairly declined to settle a
claim under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T acquired a dog from overseas through a rescue charity. Ill refer to the dog as
L. When L arrived in the UK she was initially insured through the charity with another
insurer for a period of five weeks. Mr T had obtained a quote on 19 May 2020 from GLI with
the intention of starting cover for L with GLI when the initial insurance expired.
Mr T acquired L on 28 May 2020. A few weeks later, Mr T says L began urinating with
alarming frequency. He took her to the vet on 23 June, suspecting that she may have a
urinary tract infection. The vet suspected L may have picked up a parasitic infection during
the travel from her country of origin and took some tests.
Prompted by the visit to the vet, Mr T decided to purchase the policy from GLI later that day.
He says he understood that although the cost of this first appointment wouldnt be covered,
any future costs would be.
On 29 June, the vet called Mr T to tell him that Ls tests had come back negative and shed
need further investigation for a likely kidney disorder.
Mrs T contacted GLI to establish whether or not L would be covered for this as-yet
undiagnosed condition. Mrs T was told by GLI that it goes by what the vet says in his notes
and that if the condition was diagnosed at the time L was insured with GLI, it would look to
cover any claim. Mr and Mrs T took this to mean that with the exception of the initial
appointment, Ls treatment would be covered because at that point she hadnt yet been
diagnosed with any condition.
Following the initial tests taken by the vet, L had a series of blood tests costing £471.94. Mr
T submitted a claim for this on 15 July but this clam was rejected by GLI on the ground that
Ls condition was pre-existing following the initial vet appointment on 23 June and before he
took out the policy, and that on that occasion Mr T had received advice for Ls condition.
Mr T says this directly contradicts the advice he believed GLI had given on 29 June that any
condition resulting from the tests would be insured as it hadnt yet been diagnosed.
Mr T says he wasnt given any advice by the vet on 23 June. The vet has confirmed this and
has said that at that appointment there was no mention of a possible kidney condition. This
wasnt mentioned until 29 June and therefore no advice relating to Ls condition was given
prior to the policy being purchased.
Mr Ls complaint is that the telephone advice he was given by GLI is contrary to the policy
terms relating to pre-existing conditions. The consequence is that L has been refused cover
and will remain uninsured for what has now been diagnosed as Renal Dysplasia which is a
lifelong condition. Mr T says that at the time that GLI was specifically asked for clarification
about the definition of pre-existing conditions, L was still covered by the previous insurance
policy and he was within the 14 day cooling off period of the new GLI policy. Mr T says that
if hed been correctly advised by GLI, he couldve cancelled the GLI policy and continued to
insure L through the original insurers.
Mr T is seeking payment of the initial claim of £471.94, and also reimbursement of further
bills in excess of £2000 directly relating to Ls condition, and for GLI to cover the condition
that has now been diagnosed.
As he wasnt satisfied with GLIs reasons for the rejection of his claim, he brought his
complaint to this service. Our investigator referred to Mr Ts policy, and what it says about
pre-existing conditions, namely:
Important things you should be aware of:
Pre-Existing conditions (anything your pet has had any treatment, medication or advice
for in the last 24 months) are a common cause of claims being turned down in this
section. You can always call us if you are not sure about this definition.
Pre-existing conditions
We will not pay for any costs relating to pre-existing conditions
Our investigators view was that as Mr T had sought advice about treatment from a vet for
symptoms that L had before the policy was taken out, GLI had declined the claim in line with
the policys terms and conditions. The policy doesnt make any reference for the need for a
diagnosis.
Mr T didnt accept our investigators view and asked that his complaint be referred to
an ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
As my view differed from that of our investigator, I issued a provisional decision to enable Mr 
T and GLI to provide any further information or comments that they wanted me to consider. 
Mr T responded with no further comments. GLI hasnt responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A condition doesnt have to be diagnosed for it to be considered as pre-existing. An
undiagnosed condition about which the policy holder is aware is sufficient. It indicates
knowledge of a potential risk and its reasonable for an insurer to require that all relevant
information about risks is disclosed to it. They can then either decline cover or impose
additional conditions or a higher premium.
Its not in dispute that Mr T took L to the vet before he took out the policy with GLI because
she was showing symptoms of some condition, which at that time couldnt be diagnosed
without further testing. The vets letter confirms that that primary and secondary polyuria
were discussed on 23 June, but no firm diagnosis was made until renal dysplasia was
diagnosed on 15 July.
Were there no other circumstances surrounding this case, I would be saying that L had a
pre-existing condition that Mr T knew about, even though he didnt know what it was, and
therefore wasnt covered for this under the policy.However Mr and Mrs T werent sure whether L would be covered for something that hadnt
been diagnosed, so they contacted GLI for advice. Ive listened carefully to the recording of
this call a number of times as it is fundamental to their claim. Mrs T asked GLIs call handler
if a pre-existing condition arose from when a condition was diagnosed even if L had it before,
but nobody knew. The answer she received was that GLI goes by what the vet says, and if a
diagnosis is given whilst insured by GLI, GLI would look to cover the claim. She went on to
say that pre-existing conditions are those where treatment, medication, or advice are given
in the 48 months (sic  the policy says 24 months) before inception of the policy.
What GLIs call handler said was factually correct (apart for quoting the incorrect period for a
condition to qualify as pre-existing). L was covered at the time the diagnosis was made on
15 July. But at the end of the conversation Mrs T was left with the clear impression that L
was covered for her condition even though no diagnosis had yet been made.
In my view Ls condition was a pre-existing condition as a vet had been consulted for advice
about Ls symptoms. GLIs call handler didnt seek to clarify that Ls condition was pre-
existing  and therefore not covered - even though it wasnt diagnosed. The whole
conversation had made it clear that L had presented with an undiagnosed condition that was
under investigation by her vet, so in my view Mrs Ts evident relief when she was told that
GLI would cover a condition that was diagnosed when insured by GLI shouldve been
corrected. On the strength of this misunderstanding, Mr T cancelled the original insurance
policy, which mightve covered L, and continued with GLIs policy which wouldnt cover her.
My conclusion is that Mr T acted on what Mrs T had been told when she contacted GLI for 
advice. I consider that it was reasonable for them to have sought that advice and to have 
relied upon it. Mr T changed his position on the strength of it by cancelling the original 
insurance policy.
I therefor consider it would be fair for GLI to meet the claims Mr T has submitted for Ls
veterinary treatment subject to the other terms and conditions of the policy. Mr T also wants
GLI to continue to insure L.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint.
I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to meet the claims Mr T has submitted for L as if Ls 
condition was not pre-existing, subject to the other terms and conditions of the policy and 
with interest thereon at the rate of 8%. 
I also require Great Lakes Insurance SE to continue to insure L subject to the other terms 
and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman