DRN-3454115
The complaint
Mrs B complains Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) increased the borrowing limits on her 
credit card account without undertaking appropriate affordability checks. 
What happened
Mrs B took out a credit card account with Vanquis in July 2016 and initially a £500 credit 
card limit was agreed. Mrs B says Vanquis subsequently approved further credit limit 
increases to a total of £3,000 without carrying out any affordability checks at the time or 
checking her mental state of mind, simply asking her to tick a box to confirm the increases. 
Mrs B says Vanquiss actions have caused her financial difficulties and medical issues which 
she feels Vanquis should compensate her for. Mrs B says Vanquis agreed to a modest 
monthly payment plan on her credit card account, but she doesnt feel this goes far enough 
to address her issues. 
Vanquis responded to Mrs B and felt it had carried out sufficient credit checks at the time the 
credit card account was opened, and subsequently when further credit limit increases were 
approved.
Mrs B wasnt happy with Vanquiss response and referred the matter to this service. 
After the Investigator referred the matter back to Vanquis, it subsequently accepted that 
given issues had been highlighted on Mrs Bs credit file at the time of the second credit card 
limit increase in 2017, it shouldnt have agreed to any further credit increases. Vanquis 
agreed to refund any interest and charges since the credit card limit was increased beyond 
£500 in October 2017, remove any adverse credit history on Mrs Bs credit file applied since 
that time, buy back the account from the debt collection agency to apply the refunds. 
Additionally, Vanquis agreed any remaining balance outstanding could be repaid by a long-
term arrangement if Mrs B required it.
The investigator put the offer to Mrs B, but she didnt accept it. 
The investigator looked at all of the available information and upheld the complaint. Like 
Vanquis, the investigator agreed it shouldnt have provided any further credit limit increases 
beyond the initial £500 it had originally approved, given the outstanding debt and default  on 
Mrs Bs credit file recorded in June 2017. To put matters right the investigator requested 
Vanquis to : 
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mrs B has paid on balances over £500.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, Vanquis should reduce the outstanding capital balance by 
the amount calculated at Step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, Vanquis should ensure that 
it isnt subject to any historic or future interest and/or charges.
4.Vanquis should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file from the 
first credit limit increase onwards.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will also be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to 
my decision.
I can see that Mrs B has gone through some financial problems and I was sorry to learn of 
the medical issues that created for her. 
The first thing to say here is during the course of the investigation Vanquis have accepted 
that it shouldnt have approved any further credit limit increases post the initial £500, it 
initially agreed in 2016. Like the investigator I am satisfied the initial modest credit limit 
approved in 2016 of £500 by Vanquis was reasonable, given the checks it had undertaken at 
that time and the information provided by Mrs B. But here, Vanquis have accepted Mrs Bs 
credit file at the time of the second credit limit increase approved in 2017, showed a default 
outstanding and a much higher level of unsecured debt. So, it has accepted that no further 
credit limits should have been approved on Mrs Bs credit card account and agreed to 
address this by a number of measures previously mentioned. 
Mrs B doesnt think this goes far enough, but here I cant see any evidence to show Mrs B 
ever informed Vanquis she was suffering with medical issues as a result of the indebtedness 
she had accrued, and so I cant see how Vanquis could have been aware of this. Its also fair 
to say Mrs B would have benefited from the use of the funds she borrowed, using the credit 
card facilities, so it wouldnt be fair of me to ask Vanquis to write off any outstanding 
balance. 
Thats not to say Vanquis doesnt need to put matters right  it should, but I am satisfied the 
offer it has made Mrs B is reasonable here. 
While Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Vanquis 
other than what it has already agreed and to include its offer to take back the credit card 
account from the debt collection agency, and agree an appropriate long term payment plan 
with Mrs B. 
Putting things right
I instruct Vanquis Bank Limited to:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mrs B has paid on balances over £500.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, Vanquis should reduce the outstanding capital balance by 
the amount calculated at Step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, Vanquis should ensure that 
it isnt subject to any historic or future interest and/or charges and agree an appropriate, long 
term payment plan with Mrs B.
4.Vanquis should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file from the first credit limit increase onwards. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Vanquis Bank Limited to:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mrs B has paid on balances over £500.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, Vanquis should reduce the outstanding capital balance by 
the amount calculated at Step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, Vanquis should ensure that 
it isnt subject to any historic or future interest and/or charges and agree an appropriate, long 
term payment plan with Mrs B.
4.Vanquis should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file from the 
first credit limit increase onwards. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman