DRN-1517254
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed by 
Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants 
compensation for costs incurred in hiring a replacement vehicle.
What happened
Mr A tells us he acquired the vehicle in January 2018 from a dealer Ill refer to as N. But in 
early 2019 he says he received a letter from N stating the car needed a new timing belt 
every five years. He says that the vehicle was manufactured in 2011 so he believes it 
shouldve been fitted with a new timing belt before it was supplied to him. Mr A states that he 
didnt use the vehicle for around eight months as he didnt want to risk damaging the engine 
if the belt snapped. And he explains that N refused several requests for help with the 
replacement belt.  After he complained to its head office he says that the vehicle was 
repaired in October 2019. Mr A tells us that he spent a lot of money renting a car and on 
public transport.  And he feels he should be compensated for the time he wasnt able to use 
his vehicle.
Moneyway said it received a complaint from Mr A on 23 April 2019. It said it issued a final 
response letter to Mr A on 10 May. It recommended he took the issue up with N. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said a timing belt 
was a serviceable item. And that the expected lifespan would vary. He said that under the 
terms of the agreement Mr A was responsible for maintaining the vehicle. And that there was 
nothing to show the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr A didn't agree with this outcome. As it's not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsman's been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr A has had to go through a period of inconvenience since he acquired this 
vehicle. And I can understand his disappointment when he received a letter which indicated 
he might have to incur expense he hadnt anticipated in relation to the vehicles timing belt. 
Mr As hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. Moneyway supplied the vehicle so its 
responsible for complaints about the quality of the vehicle. Its therefore unfortunate that 
when it received Mr As complaint Moneyway simply referred him to N. It shouldve 
acknowledged that it was equally responsible for potential issues relating to the quality of the 
vehicle. But it appears unlikely that this had any practical effect as theres no reason to 
suppose that it wouldve upheld Mr As complaint even if it had looked further into it. I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. And relevant legislation here is 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). This states that in order to conform to contract goods 
must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
One of the factors that buyers of used vehicles need to consider is that theres a higher 
chance of parts requiring repair or replacing than with a new vehicle. Mr A acquired the 
vehicle in January 2018 when it had covered 48,686 miles. He ought reasonably to have 
known that with a vehicle of this age and mileage it would probably need replacement parts 
as well as routine servicing. Its impossible to be sure when components will require 
replacing as that will vary according to the use thats been made of a vehicle and how it's 
been driven.
The reminder letter about the timing belt was more an attempt to try and prevent problems. 
Rather than an indication something was imminently about to go wrong with the vehicle. Had 
it not been for this letter Ive no reason to think that Mr A wouldve had any concerns about 
the timing belt. And as it was over a year since the vehicle had been supplied I infer he had 
experienced no previous issues with it.
As an item that needs replacing at intervals during the lifespan of a vehicle a timing belt 
would be considered to be a matter of periodic maintenance. And as with other items which 
require routine replacement due to wear and tear its not something that the supplier of 
goods can be expected to finance throughout the lifetime of the vehicle.
I note the vehicle passed an MOT test on 12 January 2018 and 4 January 2019, on both 
occasions without advisories. So theres nothing to show that there were any issues with the 
vehicle during this time. And its unlikely to have covered almost 5,000 miles as indicated by 
the respective odometer readings if the timing belt had been faulty.
Ive seen confirmation that N eventually made repairs to the vehicle in October 2019. Ive not 
seen the exact nature of the work that was undertaken but I infer it was the timing belt. Mr A 
has said this came about after an admission by N that the timing belt should have been 
replaced prior to the vehicle being supplied to him. But Ive not seen any supporting 
information which shows this. The email that I saw stated the work had been carried out as 
goodwill and not as a result of any quality issue.
Mr A has told us that he decided to stop using the vehicle for several months due to not 
wishing to risk engine damage if the timing belt should snap. Whilst I can understand his 
desire to be cautious I cant say that it arose as a result of the vehicle not being of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. So it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to require 
Moneyway to refund the cost of any hire vehicle or public transport. Ive seen no information 
about the actual cost of these items.
In summary, I've not seen information which would make me think this vehicle wasn't of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Accordingly, I'm not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman