DRN-1719712
Complaint
Mr M has complained that Advancis Limited (Buddy Loans) irresponsibly provided him with 
an unaffordable guarantor loan. He has said that Buddy Loans provided him with a loan 
which was clearly unaffordable. 
Background
Buddy Loans provided Mr M with a guarantor loan in March 2018. The loan was for £5,000 
and it was due to be repaid over 60 months. The monthly payments were around £197. The 
total amount to be repaid was £11,934.14.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ms complaint. He told Buddy Loans that the checks it 
carried out before providing Mr M with this loan werent reasonable and proportionate and if 
such checks had been carried out it would have seen that Mr M wasnt in a position to make 
the payments to this loan in a sustainable manner. 
So he thought that Buddy Loans shouldnt have provided Mr M with this loan and upheld the 
complaint. Buddy Loans disagreed with our adjudicators assessment and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. So the complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - 
on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law, I think 
there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint. 
These two overarching questions are:
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr M would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
  
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr M wouldve been able to do 
so?
 
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
 
If I determine that Buddy Loans didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules and regulations at the time Buddy Loans lent to Mr M required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay his loan in a 
sustainable manner. Buddy Loans was required to carry out this borrower focused 
assessment in addition to a similar one on the guarantor. This assessment is sometimes 
referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Buddy Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr M. In 
practice this meant that Buddy Loans had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Buddy Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr M. The 
existence of a guarantee and the potential for Buddy Loans to pursue the guarantor instead 
of Mr M, for the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
 
Were Buddy Loans checks reasonable and proportionate?Buddy Loans says it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr M. Mr M 
confirmed he received £1,018 a month, had living expenses of £545 and would have credit 
commitments of £278. Buddy Loans compared Mr Ms declared expenditure against 
averages using data from the Office of National Statistics and was satisfied that the amounts 
declared were reasonable. 
Taking all of this into account Mr M would be left with around £195 a month once all of his 
living costs and credit commitments (including the payments from this loan) were deducted 
from his income. Buddy Loans also says that it obtained a recent bank statement from Mr M 
which showed that he was in receipt of the declared income.  
Ive carefully thought about what Buddy Loans has said. But simply obtaining information 
from and/or about a borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a 
borrower focused assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. 
The credit check Buddy Loans carried out showed that Mr M had defaulted on a previous 
credit commitment not too long before this application. So I think its fair to say that Buddy 
Loans would have been aware that Mr M had had previous difficulties with credit. 
The rules and guidance suggest that the risk of any credit not being sustainable directly 
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the 
customers financial situation. And in this case, Buddy Loans was providing an expensive 
loan while also being aware Mr M had a relatively recent default and his income was wholly 
made up of out of work benefits. Im not saying that this in itself means that Buddy Loans 
shouldnt have lent to Mr M. But Buddy Loans ought to have been aware that Mr Ms ability 
to increase his payments in the event he fell behind or had difficulty repaying was limited 
bearing in mind his fixed-income and it not being likely hed be returning to work soon.    
I accept that Buddy Loans might have been prepared to accept this credit risk because the 
existence of Mr Ms guarantor might have given it more confidence that the payments would 
be made, But I dont think that the existence of the guarantor, on its own, meant that Mr M 
himself would be able to sustainably make the payments given what the credit file showed.
Indeed I also think that it might also be helpful for me to explain that a less detailed 
affordability assessment, without the need for verification, is only really likely to be fair, 
reasonable and proportionate in circumstances where the amount to be repaid is relatively 
small, the consumers financial situation is stable and they will be indebted for a relatively 
short period. 
But, in circumstances  such as here - where a customers finances are showing telling 
signs of possible strain and distress, they are expected to maintain payments for a longer 
period of time and there is the potential that a guarantor will be required to step in and make 
payments, I think its far more likely that any affordability assessment would need to be more 
detailed and contain a greater degree of verification, in order for it to be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate. 
In my view, bearing in mind the term of the loan, the cost of the credit, what Buddy Loans 
had seen or ought to have seen in the information gathered and the make-up of Mr Ms 
income, Buddy Loans needed to get a thorough understanding of Mr Ms financial position in 
order to properly assess whether hed be able to sustainably make the loan payments he 
was being asked to commit to. 
So as well as asking Mr M about the details of his income and expenditure, I think 
that Buddy Loans needed to verify what it was being told by Mr M, rather than relying on 
what Mr M declared for his monthly expenditure. It could have done this by properly scrutinising the bank statement Mr M provided and then following up on the discrepancies or 
by asking for copies of bills. As theres no evidence that Buddy Loans did properly scrutinise 
the information provided, or that it asked Mr M to provide documentary evidence to support 
the expenditure declarations made, I find that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks before providing Mr M with this loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Buddy Loans that Mr M would 
have been unable to sustainably repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Buddy Loans that Mr M wouldve been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan. 
Mr M has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he 
applied for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Mr M has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Buddy Loans mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Buddy Loans showing what this information would 
have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable 
weight on it as an indication of what Mr Ms financial circumstances were more likely than 
not to have been at the time.
As Ive already explained, Buddy Loans was required to establish whether Mr M could 
sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered the information Mr M has provided in light of all of this. Buddy 
Loans did obtain a bank statement from Mr M. But having reviewed it its clear to see that 
there was no expenditure going out from the account statement provided. So I think that 
Buddy Loans ought to have done more to find out if and how Mr M was making his payments 
to his living costs and existing expenditure. And if Buddy Loans had done this as I think it 
was reasonable and proportionate to then it would have learnt Mr M was gambling significant 
sums of money. 
In truth, this is more likely than not the reason for the difficulties with previous credit shown 
on his credit file, rather than any administrative error. In any event, whether or not this is the 
case, Mr Ms statements suggest to me that his ability to repay his loan would in large part 
come down to his success as a gambler. And I dont think that this was conducive to him 
being able to sustainably repay this loan.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr M would not have been able to make the 
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted Buddy Loans to the fact that Mr M would not be able to sustainably make 
the repayments to this loan. Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Buddy Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in 
some other way.  
So I find that Buddy Loans didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other 
way.  
Conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought about the two overarching questions, set out on page 
one of this decision, I find that:
Buddy Loans didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr M to satisfy 
itself that he was able to repay his loan;
 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown Mr M 
was unable to sustainably make the repayments for this loan;
 
Buddy Loans didnt also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other 
way.
 
The above findings leave me concluding that Buddy Loans unfairly and unreasonably 
provided Mr M with a guarantor loan in March 2018.
Did Mr M lose out as a result of Buddy Loans unfairly and unreasonably providing him with 
his guarantor loan?
I accept that the monthly payments were broadly similar to the existing guarantor loan Mr M 
was consolidating with this one. Nonetheless I think that this loan had the effect of unfairly 
increasing Mr Ms indebtedness as it led to him being provided with additional credit and he 
now had to make payments for longer. So I find that Mr M will eventually suffer adverse 
consequences and as a result will lose out because Buddy Loans unfairly provided him with 
this loan.
What Buddy Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Ive carefully thought about what Buddy Loans should do to put things right in this case. 
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business  
in so far as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position they would be in 
now if that wrong hadnt taken place. In essence, in this case, this would mean Buddy Loans 
putting Mr M in the position hed now be in if she hadnt been given this loan.
But when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward. Mr M 
was given the loan in question and he used the funds. So, in these circumstances, I cant 
undo whats already been done. And its simply not possible to put Mr M back in the position 
she would be in if she hadnt been given this loan in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Buddy Loans to put things right in 
the following way.interest and charges on the loan
As Ive explained, Buddy Loans lending to Mr M, in these circumstances, left him in a 
position where his debt was increasing. And in these circumstances wed typically say that 
Buddy Loans should remove all of the interest applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr M made would then be deducted from the £5000 he was initially lent and 
Buddy Loans would then arrange a suitable repayment plan for the remaining amount 
outstanding to be collected. 
Mr M says that this doesnt go far enough and that the payments hes made should be 
refunded to him and he should be given additional time to repay the £5000 he was initially 
lent. Hes said hes struggling financially and he should be allowed to use the funds he wants 
refunded to pay other debts which are more important. 
Ive given a lot of thought to what Mr Ms told us. But I dont think that what Mr M is asking 
me to tell Buddy Loans to do is fair. I appreciate that Mr M is in a difficult financial position. 
And I do sympathise with him. But as Ive explained its the interest and charges that will 
cause Mr M harm here and as Mr M hasnt repaid anywhere near the amount he was lent he 
hasnt paid any interest and charges yet. If I were to do as Mr M asks here, Id effectively be 
telling Buddy Loans to lend Mr M more money, even though Mr M shouldnt have been given 
this loan in the first place and hes now saying that he cant pay back what he owes. 
Ive also thought about what Mr M has said about the distress and inconvenience caused. 
But the monthly payments on this loan are roughly the same as the guarantor loan he 
already had (its the increased term and indebtedness that causes Mr M loss but that wont 
happen now the interest and charges are being removed) and so its difficult to say that 
making the payments to this loan caused Mr M additional distress. And by his own 
admission Mr M was already in a difficult financial position when he applied for this loan so 
was in a position to know his ability to make payments. I think its fair and reasonable for me 
to consider this in any additional distress and inconvenience caused as a result of this loan 
being provided. 
Mr M has referred to his guarantor. But he isnt entitled to be compensated for any loss, or 
distress and inconvenience that his guarantor may have suffered. Indeed if Mr Ms guarantor 
is unhappy they will have to make their own complaint to Buddy Loans. 
So overall and having carefully considered everything, I think the resolution proposed by our 
adjudicator is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. And Im not asking 
Buddy Loans to pay Mr M any money. That said, as Mr M says hes struggling financially, Id 
remind Buddy Loans of its obligation to exercise forbearance when collecting any remaining 
balance once all the interest and charges have been removed. 
Mr Ms credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result of the interest and charges on the loans they shouldnt have 
been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer is being refunded and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what they owe.
So I think that Buddy Loans should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms 
credit file as a result of the interest and charges on this loan, as Mr M wasnt in a position to 
sustainably repay this loan and he shouldnt have had to pay those interest and charges in 
the first place.All of this means I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ms 
complaint for Buddy Loans to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr M has made should be deducted from the new starting balance;
 
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges associated with this loan.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Advancis Limited should put 
things right for Mr M in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman