DRN-3576016
The complaint
Mr B complains about Moneybarn No.1 Limited trading as Moneybarns (Moneybarn) 
decision to lend him.
What happened
Mr B entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in June 2019 to acquire a 
used car. The car cost £7,125 and under the agreement, Mr B was required to make 47 
monthly payments of £263.98.
In July 2019, no payment was made towards the agreement. So Moneybarn asked Mr B to 
contact it. Mr B contacted Moneybarn and said he didnt realise a payment had been missed. 
He also asked Moneybarn to change his payment date and the account was brought up to 
date. In October and November 2019, Mr B missed further payments. In December 2019,  
Mr B contacted Moneybarn and let it know hed experienced some concerns with his bank 
and that hed been working abroad. He said hed clear the arrears in January 2020. As the 
arrears werent cleared by January 2020, Moneybarn issued a default notice. Moneybarn 
terminated Mr Bs agreement in February 2020, due to the arrears owed under the 
agreement,. 
In March 2021, Mr B complained to Moneybarn. He said it hadnt carried out clear 
affordability checks at the time of lending to him and if it had done, it wouldnt have lent to 
him. He said his credit file at the time was showing a number of missed payments and 
defaulted accounts. He also said his bank statements showed he was spending a significant 
amount on gambling and he had a number of other loans at the time. He said his payslips at 
the time showed additional income he received for his work expenses and Moneybarn 
shouldnt have taken the expenses into account. He said because Moneybarn repossessed 
the car, this caused him distress and inconvenience.
Moneybarn issued its response to Mr Bs complaint. It said it had carried out a credit check 
before agreeing to lend to Mr B, it obtained payslips from him and also assessed his 
expenditure by obtaining data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS). It said Mr B had 
signed to confirm his non-discretionary expenditure didnt exceed a certain amount. And it 
said even if it deducted the income Mr B received for his work expenses, it still considered 
that the agreement was affordable. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B referred his complaint to this service. He reiterated his complaint 
and said to put things right he wanted Moneybarn to write off any amounts he owed, refund 
all payments and charges he had paid under the agreement, pay him 8% simple interest on 
these amounts, remove any negative information from his credit file and pay him £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but she thought Moneybarn had made a fair 
lending decision when lending to Mr B. She said she didnt think Moneybarn had completed 
proportionate checks. But she said Mr B didnt provide this service with a copy of his credit 
file and so she couldnt say what Moneybarn would have likely seen at the time of lending. 
She also said Mr Bs bank statements showed he had enough disposable income to 
maintain the payments owed under the conditional sale agreement. 
Mr B disagreed. He said that his bank statements showed he was gambling and so he 
shouldnt have been offered a loan. He said these bank statements were provided to 
Moneybarn at the time of the application. And he also said his average income was less than 
Moneybarn had said it was, so it shouldnt have lent to him. 
Our investigator said that the gambling transactions were evident on Mr Bs bank 
statements. But because she only thought Moneybarn needed to verify Mr Bs expenditure 
and it wasnt required to obtain his bank statements, she didnt think likely that it would have 
been aware that Mr B was gambling at the time it approved the lending.
Mr B remains unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
We explain how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint. 
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was affordable for Mr B before providing it. 
In this case, I think there are two overarching questions that I need to answer in order to 
fairly and reasonably decide Mr Bs complaint. These two questions are: 
1. Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr B would be able to repay his loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr B wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
would be able to repay his loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences? 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the amount lent was high, or the 
information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired credit history  suggested the 
lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers ability to repay. Ive carefully 
thought about what this means for Mr Bs case.
In this case, Moneybarn has demonstrated some of the checks it carried out by providing us 
with the information it obtained from Mr B before deciding to lend. These checks included 
obtaining three months payslips from Mr B and reviewing ONS data to assess average 
expenditure. It also said it carried out a credit check, but whilst it no longer has a copy of the 
results, it said the credit check showed Mr B had one account that had defaulted 10 months 
before the agreement was entered into. It said all of Mr Bs other credit commitments were 
up to date and successfully maintained. 
Ive reviewed the payslips Moneybarn has provided. These show that Mr Bs income was 
supplemented by an allowance for each of the three months before the lending was approved. This is a consistent allowance which Mr B receives each month, so I dont think 
its unreasonable that Moneybarn expected this allowance to be paid to Mr B each month. In 
addition, the contract Mr B entered into asked him to confirm his income wasnt less than a 
certain amount. Mr B confirmed it wasnt. But if we deduct the allowance Mr B received from 
his base income each month, his income would be less than the amount Mr B confirmed it 
was. But despite this, Mr B signed to say he received more than this amount each month. So 
I think its unlikely Mr B told Moneybarn at the time that the allowance wasnt one hed 
receive each month going forward. 
Mr B told us that he had could see some defaulted accounts at the time Moneybarn 
approved the lending. He said other defaulted accounts had since been removed from his 
credit file. We asked Mr B to provide us with a copy of his credit file to help us understand 
what Moneybarn would more likely than not have discovered when deciding to lend to Mr B. 
However, Mr B didnt provide us with a copy of his credit file. 
Having carefully considered this, given that Moneybarn was aware that Mr B had defaulted 
on an account around 10 months before it approved this lending, I think could suggest that 
Mr B was having difficulty in meeting his contractual obligations shortly before he took out 
this loan agreement. So Im not satisfied that the checks Moneybarn carried out were 
proportionate and I think it should have carried out further checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
would be able to repay his loan, without experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Ive thought about what a proportionate check could look like considering the terms of the 
agreement. In this case, the repayments were due to last over around five years, the 
purpose of the lending was for an asset and the repayments were £263.98. I appreciate that 
Moneybarn did obtain some ONS data to suggest what Mr Bs expenditure should be and  
Mr B confirmed that his expenditure wasnt over a certain amount. However, given the 
amount of the monthly payments and that the payments were due to last for around five 
years, I think Moneybarn should have asked for information about Mr Bs expenditure, 
especially given that it may have been aware that Mr Bs credit file showed some recent 
adverse information.
Weve obtained bank statements from Mr B which demonstrate his circumstances at the time 
he applied for the lending. To be clear, Im not saying that Moneybarn was required to obtain 
these before lending to Mr B, Im simply saying I think it would have been reasonable for 
Moneybarn to ask Mr B about his expenditure at the time of lending. Given the amount of 
time that has now passed since the lending was approved, Ive reviewed Mr Bs bank 
statements because I think the information they contain is what is needed to reconstruct 
what a proportionate check may have looked like and to confirm what Mr Bs expenditure 
likely was at the time. 
I also accept that if Moneybarn had obtained information from Mr B about his expenditure at 
the time the agreements were taken out, this may have shown something different. 
However, in the absence of anything else from Moneybarn to demonstrate what any other 
checks would have shown, I think its reasonable to place considerable weight on the bank 
statements as an indication as to what Mr Bs expenditure was at the time.
Having reviewed the bank statements Mr B has provided this service, Im satisfied Mr B had 
enough disposable income to sustainably make the repayments under the conditional sale 
agreement. Mr Bs bank statements show two payments to loan providers and few other 
contractually monthly payments that he was liable for. The bank statements show a number 
of transfers to other accounts and payments in from sources other than his employer. But  
Mr B hasnt provided this service with any other statements and its unclear whether Mr B 
would have provided these specific bank statements to Moneybarn had it asked him to, 
given he appears to have other accounts. 
In light of this, had Moneybarn asked Mr B about his monthly expenditure, I think its likely it 
would have found that Mr B had enough disposable income to make the repayments owed under the conditional sale agreement. This is also the case if we deduct the allowances Mr B 
said he received within his income at the time.
I also accept that the bank statements Mr B has provided us show a number of gambling 
transactions. Mr B says Moneybarn should have picked up on this. But Moneybarn didnt 
obtain Mr Bs bank statements at the time it lent to him and it wasnt required to. It only 
obtained a copy of Mr Bs payslips at the time. So given it didnt need to obtain Mr Bs bank 
statements at the time, unless Mr B told Moneybarn at the time about his gambling 
expenditure, which he didnt, Moneybarn wouldnt have reasonably been aware that Mr B 
was spending funds each month towards gambling transactions. 
So, having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied that whilst I dont think Moneybarn 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks when lending to Mr B, I think if it had asked 
further questions about Mr Bs expenditure at the time, this would have likely shown that    
Mr B would have been able to afford the repayments owed under the conditional sale 
agreement. So it follows that I think Moneybarn made a fair lending decision.
Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
I havent been provided with any other information to suggest Moneybarn acted unfairly in 
any other way.
Mr B has an outstanding balance which is owed under his agreement. Id remind Moneybarn 
of its obligation to treat Mr B with forbearance and due consideration if he is currently in 
financial difficulty.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman