DRN-3797837
The complaint
Mr P complains about advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) in 
relation to a defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS). Portal processed the 
transfer of Mr Ps OPS benefits on an insistent client basis to a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP). Portal recommended the investments within the SIPP to Mr P, including 
investing in several unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS).
Mr P is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr P.
What happened
Mr P says he was thinking about accessing money from his pension to provide a lump sum 
to his son to help start a new business venture. And when looking into this, he spoke to 
Portal. I can see he completed a letter of authority so that Portal could gather information 
about his DB scheme.
After doing this, Portal sent Mr P a letter on, 15 October 2012. This letter was headed 
Releasing Tax Free Cash from your Pension and invited Mr P to arrange an appointment at 
which Portal would talk through your Pension release options. The letter talked about the 
current issues affecting the pensions market, saying Right now traditional pensions are 
taking a hammering and that the majority of pensions are linked to the stock markets 
which the letter described as having been in turmoil for some time. The letter went on to 
say that if the right investments are chosen they can still perform very well for you. As 
part of our conversation we can discuss how to make your existing policy work much 
harder. The letter also commented on annuity rates being low and said If you decide to 
release some tax free cash from your pension then one of the things we would do is set up 
your pension so that you dont have to purchase an annuity when you decide to retire.
The letter then went on to set out the transfer value of Mr Ps pension, £35,567, and the 
critical yield, 12.62% - which is the rate at which a new pension arrangement would need to 
grow by each year to allow Mr P to purchase equivalent benefits to those provided by his DB 
scheme at retirement. The letter said though that this would be discussed in more detail 
when Mr P called to talk about his options. It then talked about what Mr Ps options were at 
that time. And said these were either to do nothing, release tax-free cash (TFC) and leave 
the remainder invested or release TFC and draw an income. The references to the latter two 
also set out how much TFC Mr P could take by transferring, which Portal said was £8,891.
I understand a discussion then took place. During that conversation Portal completed a fact 
find document  which Ive seen a copy of. This was dated 29 October 2012. The fact find 
recorded that Mr P was 56, in good health, divorced and had three children, one of whom 
was still financially dependent on him. Portal noted he wanted to take the maximum TFC to 
set up a new business. The fact find went on to say that Mr P was employed full time with 
his income exceeding his regular outgoings by approximately £300 per month and he didnt 
intend to retire until age 65. He was living with his mother so didnt own a property and had 
no other assets, but he also had no liabilities. Also included was a section where answers to 
questions asked about Mr Ps attitude to risk (ATR) were recorded.
Portal then sent Mr P another letter, also dated 29 October 2012. This letter said;
You currently have a pension with [former employer] which has a Transfer Value of £35,567, 
from which you could release a total amount of £8,891 as a tax free lump sum. However, as 
the Critical Yield (growth rate required to match your guaranteed benefits with [former 
employer]) is 12.62% it would be against our recommendation to do this. Furthermore, you 
will be waiving your entitlement to a guaranteed pension of £2,451 per annum which is 
payable at retirement age 65.
If you decide that you still wish to proceed, we can help you release money from your 
pension, but we would have to treat you as an insistent client, as this would be against our 
recommendation. We would, therefore, require you to complete the attached insistent client 
form confirming that you are aware of the benefits you would be relinquishing.
I enclose a form detailing the various options available to you. Please can you arrange to 
complete and return the forms to Portal Financial Services. Upon receipt, we will arrange to 
send out all the relevant application forms and Suitability Report detailing our advice.
The letter included an option form for Mr P to complete. The first option being to take the 
maximum available TFC and invest the remainder of the pension until he needed an income. 
The second being to leave his pension funds where they were. There was also a declaration, 
pre-drafted by Portal, for him to sign, saying he wanted to proceed as an insistent client.
We havent been provided with a copy of these completed forms but I understand they are 
likely to have been completed shortly after this letter was provided to Mr P as, on 31 October 
2012, Portal sent Mr P a pension release report, or suitability report, setting out its advice 
along with a covering letter. 
The covering letter said that the suitability report included Portals recommendation. And 
said that, by following that recommendation, Mr P would receive £8,891 in TFC, have 
greater long-term flexibility and would receive further advice when he decided to access his 
funds. It also said Portal believed its recommendation was suitable for Mr Ps situation.
The suitability report first listed Mr Ps objectives. It said these were to use his existing 
pension to provide an income at a later date but to take his TFC entitlement immediately. It 
said he wanted to retain his residual fund which would be invested until he required a 
retirement income. And he wanted to ensure he had good awareness of investment 
opportunities, that the portfolio reflected his risk profile, be kept informed of the performance 
of the portfolio and have access to a system to allow him to monitor his investments. 
It went on to discuss Mr Ps circumstances. It said his highest priority was to preserve your 
fund for as long as possible, currently taking no income while retaining the flexibility of your 
pension fund and to take your Tax Free Cash. The report briefly recapped Mr Ps 
circumstances  although only his age, living arrangement, wage and that he had no assets 
or liabilities. And it again said the reason for wanting TFC was to set up a new business.
In the section of the report titled Your situation Portal said it is against my recommendation 
to transfer your benefits. But that Mr P had decided he still wanted to proceed and on that 
basis it could still help him release money from his pension and it would treat him as an 
insistent client.
The suitability report also said Portal had assessed that Mr P had a balanced ATR.
In terms of Mr Ps existing pension, the transfer value and critical yield were again listed. 
And it was stated that Mr P was giving up a guaranteed pension  although how much this was for was not mentioned at any point within the report itself.
In the Recommendation section of the report, Portal went on to say it recommend that Mr P 
transfer to a SIPP, take the maximum available TFC and then invest in a portfolio Portal 
recommended. It said doing so would allow Mr P to receive TFC, use that for the purposes it 
had previously listed, structure the portfolio to match his risk and reward profile and have 
greater long-term flexibility.
The portfolio Portal recommended that Mr P invest in consisted of:
45% Raithwaites Hypa Fund
10% Cool Blue Fractional Plus Fund (also known as the Cool Blue Samui Fund)
20% Venture Oil International
12.5% EOS Solar Energy
12.5% Cash Deposit
The first four of which being unregulated collective investment schemes.
Portal said advice on these types of funds was restricted and Mr P was not exempt from that 
restriction. But he was someone that Portal had taken steps to ensure that investments in 
those funds was suitable for. It also said it had conducted due diligence on the investment 
schemes. It noted that the funds would be considered relatively illiquid, but as Mr P was not 
looking to draw an income for nine years it didnt consider this made the funds unsuitable.
The transfer went ahead on the basis of this recommendation.
I understand that since then a number of the recommended funds have not performed in line 
with the initial outlined projections and have since been given a nominal value of £0.0001 
per unit by the SIPP provider.
Mr P complained to Portal in May 2021. He said he felt transferring, and the investments 
Portal recommended, were unsuitable as he wanted his pension to be secure. Mr P said 
Portal had only focussed on transferring his DB scheme and releasing TFC and has placed 
emphasis on this outcome from the outset. It hadnt considered other alternatives, such as 
another pension that he couldve accessed, and hadnt ask any questions about his income 
needs in retirement. He said the advice process Portal used was unfair and that hed been 
directed down the insistent client route without being given sufficient information to 
understand what that meant or make an informed decision. 
Portal declined to look into Mr Ps complaint as it said it felt it had been made outside of the 
time limits set for raising a complaint. Specifically, more than six years after the event 
complained about and more than three years after Portal believed Mr P shouldve been 
aware of having reason to complain.
It said it believed Mr P had reasonable cause for concern in:
February 2014 when he was provided an annual review confirming the SIPP 
contained illiquid elements.
September 2015 when he was sent a letter providing an update on the illiquid funds.
June 2016 where an update call took place and he expressed concerns about the 
pension not making money.
August 2016 when he was told money could not be released from the fund due to its 
illiquidity.
November 2017 when it sent Mr P a letter explaining that the SIPP provider had 
placed nominal values on some of the investments, and why this had happened.The complaint was referred to our service. One of our Investigators considered matters. He 
said he thought the complaint was one we could consider because, while he agreed it had 
been referred more than six years after the advice was given, he didnt think Mr P ought to 
have been aware of having reason to complain more than three years before he did.
In reference to the points at which Portal said it thought Mr P shouldve been aware of a 
potential issue, in summary the Investigator said:
The February 2014 letter recommended Mr P make investments into additional funds 
but reassured him that this didnt mean there was anything wrong with the 
recommendations made previously.
While the September 2015 letter said investment experiences in the funds had not 
been as anticipated it went to lengths to reassure Mr P that the plans now in place for 
returns to be paid, in Portals view, were sound.
A discussion about returns and performance in August 2016 wouldnt necessarily 
have prompted Mr P to think the advice given to him in 2012 was unsuitable.
And being told in September 2016 that releasing funds at that time wasnt possible 
due to fund liquidity also wouldnt in the Investigators view, have meant Mr P had 
reason to question the original advice.
The letter from Portal in November 2017 did talk about the SIPP provider placing 
nominal valuations of £1 on some of the investments. But it went on to say that this 
action does not mean that your investments are worthless and said, please dont 
worry. So, he felt this letter was likely to reassure Mr P.
Our Investigator then gave his opinion on the merits of the complaint  and said they thought 
it should be upheld and that Portal should be required to pay compensation and £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. He didnt think Portal had given Mr P clear enough 
information and felt the process if followed made its recommendation unclear. He also felt 
Mr P hadnt been in a position to make an informed choice regarding whether to be an 
insistent client. Overall, he didnt think transferring his pension was in Mr Ps best interests  
as he didnt think Mr P had a genuine need to do so or that Portal had done enough to 
explore this. And if this had been clearly explained, he didnt think Mr P wouldve gone 
ahead.
Portal did not agree with the Investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Can our service consider the complaint?
Portal said it did not agree with our Investigators opinion that the complaint was one that we 
could consider. Although it did not offer any additional evidence or arguments to support this. 
Nevertheless, Ive looked at whether we have jurisdiction to consider the matter.
The rules under which the Financial Ombudsman Service operate are set out by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). These are known as the DISP rules. These rules set out 
the limits to what our service can and cant consider. 
One of the things these rules cover is whether the complaint has been brought in time for us 
to consider. The rules say our service cant consider a complaint if its been brought more 
than six years after the event complained of; or, if later, more than three years after the person bringing the complaint knew  or ought reasonably to have been aware  they had 
cause to complain. If it is brought outside of these time limits, and the business doesnt 
consent to us looking at the complaint, we cant consider it, unless there are exceptional 
circumstances that explain why the person bringing the complaint didnt do so within the time 
limits.
Portal has said it doesnt consent to us considering Mr Ps complaint as it believes it has 
been made out of time.
The subject of the complaint is the advice given in October 2012 and whether this was 
suitable. Mr P did not complain about this until May 2021  more than six years after the 
event complained about. So, Im satisfied the complaint has been made too late in regard to 
the six-year rule.
As a result, Ive thought about when Mr P ought reasonably to have been aware of having 
reason to complain, and whether this gives him more time under the three-year rule.
Ive considered what Portal has said about the various different times it thinks Mr P 
shouldve been aware of having cause for complain. But having done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as our Investigator  that I dont think the correspondence referred to ought 
to have given Mr P cause to complain.
The letter of February 2014
The letter is an annual review of the SIPP. In it, Portal recommended additional 
investments, using a part of the cash holdings within the SIPP. There was a section 
providing an update on how the existing funds were performing. And a general 
commentary on the economic climate. While it was recommending changes the letter 
reassured Mr P by saying The fact that we are now recommending changes does 
not mean that your existing funds were not appropriate for you and that the 
changes were being suggested because of changes in market conditions. I dont 
think from that Id have expected Mr P to question what he was told in 2012. And I 
dont think there was anything else in this letter that ought to have made Mr P 
question the advice he was provided by Portal.
The letter of September 2015
This letter gave Mr P an investment update in respect of his SIPP. This was broken 
down into an update in respect of each of the funds Portal originally recommended. 
The letter acknowledged that investment experiences had not been as Portal had 
originally anticipated. But in respect of each fund, Portal set out information indicating 
that payment of the agreed returns was expected to be completed, because each of 
the fund had put contingency plans in place for this. So, the overall message of the 
letter was, in my view, that while plans had changed, Mr P could expect to receive 
the returns he was told he would. Based on this, and because from the information 
Ive seen Mr P was an inexperienced investor, I wouldnt have expected him to 
believe there was cause for concern about the advice Portal provided him, from this 
letter.
Conversations in June and August 2016
Portal has said calls took place in which Mr P was provided updates on his SIPP and 
its performance and told that withdrawals from the fund were not possible at that 
time. It also says in the first call, Mr P indicated he was concerned that his SIPP had 
not grown very much.We havent seen full notes of these calls  the only information Portal has provided is 
the brief summaries from its final response. And, although our Investigator requested 
these, we also havent been provided recordings of these calls. So, it is difficult to 
make conclusions about the content of these calls. That being said, given the content 
and tone of the letters Ive seen predating these calls  specifically that they largely 
reassured Mr P he had no cause for concern  on balance I think the conversations 
were likely to be along similar lines. And that he was likely to have been reminded, if 
he did raise concerns about the performance of the SIPP to that point, about the 
long-term nature of the investments recommended. So, I think he likely left those 
calls with the impression, once again, that there was not cause for concern and so I 
dont think he ought to have reason to question the advice from 2012. 
The letter of November 2017
This letter once again seems to have been aimed primarily at reassuring Mr P. It did 
say that the SIPP provider had placed a nominal value of £1 on some of the illiquid 
investments, which the letter acknowledged could look alarming. But it went on to 
explain why this had been done when in fact nothing material has changed. And it 
proceeded to once more try to alleviate any concerns Mr P mightve had, including by 
stating he still owned a portion of the physical assets used to secure the investments. 
And the letter concluded by repeating the message please do not worry, nothing 
material has changed 
But in any event, Mr P has provided a summary of his address history and confirmed 
he left the address to which this letter was sent in 2016. I havent been given any 
reason to dispute that. So, on balance of probabilities, I think this letter was likely not 
received by Mr P. And so couldnt have caused him to question the advice Portal had 
previously provided. 
Based on the information Ive been provided, I havent seen anything that makes me think 
Mr P ought reasonably to have been aware of having cause to complain more than three 
years before he did so, with the help of his professional adviser. So, I think this complaint 
has been brought in time for our service to consider.
Ive also thought about whether what Portal recorded as the purpose for accessing TFC to 
start a new business impacted Mr Ps status as a consumer, and subsequently whether we 
could consider this complaint. Because a consumer is someone acting outside of their trade, 
business or profession. And drawing TFC to contribute to a new business venture may have 
meant he didnt fall within that definition in respect of this transaction. But Mr P has been 
clear that the reason for considering accessing TFC was to help his son with the start-up 
costs of a new business venture his son was considering. So, the purpose was actually 
providing a loan or gift to a member of his family. While the fact find Portal completed at the 
time didnt mention Mr Ps son in the context of the new business, as Ill go on to explain, I 
think there were issues with the information gathered by Portal not being as detailed as Id 
have expected here. So, I dont think Portal omitting to record this detail is enough for me to 
question what Mr P has now said. And as a result, based on the information available to me, 
Im satisfied that Mr P was a consumer in respect of this transaction.
Suitability of advice
Portal has argued that the advice it gave was suitable. This is because it says it didnt 
recommend that Mr P transfer his pension and advised against it. But it says Mr P insisted 
on doing so and, after he insisted, it recommended a provider and investments which it feels 
were right for him. But for the reasons Ill explain I dont agree that Portals actions were 
appropriate or fair.COBS 2.1.1R required Portal to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client. And, as part of that, COBS 9.2 required Portal to take 
reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was suitable for Mr P. To achieve this, 
COBS 9.2.2R said Portal had to obtain enough information from Mr P to ensure its 
recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear the related investment risks 
consistent with these objectives and that he had the necessary experience and knowledge to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1.
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer
out of a defined benefits pension scheme;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to
make an informed decision;
3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later
than when the key features document is provided; and
4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to
transfer, or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be
suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it
can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer or opt-out is in the
client's best interests.
In short, Portal needed to start with the assumption a transfer would be unsuitable. It needed 
to consider Mr Ps specific circumstances and objectives, assess the options available and 
look at what was in his best interests. It needed to provide a comparison of what the 
situation would be if he opted to transfer his pension from his OPS and what it would be if he 
didnt, making clear the differences and risks. And it needed to make sure that Mr P 
understood all of this information so that he could make an informed decision. All while 
ensuring it acted honestly, fairly and professionally.
Mr P has said that he was interested in potentially releasing money from his pension before 
speaking to Portal. But while he might have already thought about doing this, Portals role 
wasnt just to facilitate this. It was to provide unbiased advice about what was in his best 
interests. And again, from the starting assumption that a transfer would not be suitable.
The letter Portal sent to Mr P on 15 October 2012 was headed Re: Releasing Tax Free 
Cash from your Pension. We have now received the information we needed. So, the first 
thing mentioned wasnt a review or more general pension advice. Rather it was making a 
specific change to the situation as it was through releasing money from the pension. And a 
detailed fact-find hadnt been completed at that stage in order for Portal to understand Mr Ps 
circumstances or needs. The letter went on to talk, in negative terms, about traditional pension arrangements and 
said that the performance of these was typically dictated by the stock market. Which the 
letter also described as being in turmoil. But Mr Ps DB scheme meant he wasnt really 
exposed to market risks. His pension provided a guaranteed income, and the market risks 
were borne by the pension provider. So, this commentary, as well as being arguably 
unbalanced, didnt reflect important information relevant to his circumstances. 
The letter also said As part of our conversation we can discuss how to make your existing 
policy work much harder to grow your remaining fund before you retire. This, when coupled 
with the negative summary of pension arrangements, in my view wouldve suggested to Mr P 
that the existing pension and leaving his funds invested in it was a potentially negative 
outcome.
The letter talked briefly about three options. The first of which was to do nothing and leave 
the pension benefits with Mr Ps current provider. But it said nothing more about this option. 
It didnt say that by doing this Mr P would be due a guaranteed pension. Or that hed also 
still be able to take TFC on retirement under that scheme if hed wanted to. And I think at 
least some additional context shouldve been included  particularly given Portal had 
obtained information from Mr Ps pension provider at that stage and the other options it listed 
set out specific monetary amounts available to Mr P.
The other two options Portal talked about mentioned the immediate release of TFC and 
specifically how much Mr P could take. One option talked about was pension release and 
said Mr P could transfer benefits and release a TFC sum of £8,891 then leave the remainder 
invested. And the other was to take full benefits and retire with an income which again said 
Mr P could take £8,891 as TFC and could then use the remainder to produce an income, 
which Portal said it would get the best possible deal for. Im not sure emphasising a TFC 
amount was appropriate without knowing Mr Ps circumstances  as there was no way to 
know if this was in his interests. And I also dont think it was balanced to do this without any 
further context being given to the option of remaining in his current scheme.
I appreciate that the letter didnt indicate that Mr P should choose one of the options it talked 
about. But I think the information given and the way the options were presented emphasised 
the release of TFC by transferring. And again, this was before a meaningful fact find had 
been completed. And I dont think this was in line with the requirement, set by the regulator, 
to start by assuming the transfer was unsuitable.
Portal did complete a fact find with Mr P over the phone a couple of weeks later. But I think 
the information gathered wasnt as in depth as it shouldve been and doesnt indicate to me 
that Portal did enough to understand Mr Ps circumstances and needs.
There was no meaningful information gathered about Mr Ps income needs in retirement. 
There was only one question in the fact find relating to this which said What annual income 
will you require when you retire? The answer to which was recorded as unknown. The 
primary purpose of a pension is to provide benefits in retirement. But there seems to have 
been no real consideration of what benefits Mr P needed. Which I think means its difficult to 
say that enough essential information was obtained to make a suitable recommendation.
The section regarding other pension provisions was left blank. So, the information Portal was 
basing its advice on indicated this DB scheme was Mr Ps only real pension provisions. 
Suggesting he had no real capacity for loss. But this doesnt appear to have been reflected 
in the attitude to risk evaluation. Mr P has said he in fact had a defined contribution pension 
worth approximately £14,000. But Portals failure to gather or record that information again 
indicates a lack of understanding of Mr Ps circumstances. The requirement noted was for maximum TFC, £8,891, to set up a business. But there was 
no other meaningful detail recorded about the expected costs of doing so, why that specific 
sum was needed or whether setting up said business would actually be achievable with the 
sum or if other financing would be required and how this would be funded. And again, Mr P 
has said, and has been consistent in explaining, that it was in fact his son that was setting up 
a business, rather than him. I dont doubt Mr P indicated that providing assistance to his son 
was what he had in mind. But I dont think Portal did anything to establish that this was a 
genuine need or that hed even be able to achieve this apparent goal. So again, it is hard to 
see how an assessment could reasonably be made as to whether pursuing this was in 
Mr Ps best interests.
Overall, I dont think the focus of the initial correspondence and the fact finding was what 
was in Mr Ps best interests. It seems to have been largely around how much TFC could 
potentially be taken and what this might be used for  not whether that was appropriate. And 
I think that could very well have misled Mr P into thinking that releasing TFC was what Portal 
thought was best. Which I think was subsequently made worse by the process Portal then 
followed.
The same day as the fact find was completed, Portal sent Mr P a short letter. It again listed a 
transfer value and the amount of TFC that could be taken. But simply said it would be 
against Portals recommendation to transfer based on the critical yield alone. So, this letter 
gave Portals recommendation. As such it was the document which was supposed to 
summarise Portals advice and reasons for this to Mr P. Firstly, it is interesting that Portal felt 
it was able to provide a personal recommendation on the same day the fact find was 
completed  or that an appropriate analysis of all of the circumstances couldve been 
undertaken in that time. But the short turnaround time notwithstanding, I dont think this letter 
went nearly far enough to provide a reasoned recommendation. 
The letter said Mr P would be giving up a guaranteed pension of £2,451 per year at age 65. 
But there was no further comparison for Mr P to consider. There was no information about 
what level of pension income might reasonably be achievable from his fund after a transfer. 
There was nothing recorded about Mr Ps circumstances or requirements in the letter. And 
there was nothing to suggest there had been any consideration to alternate ways Mr P could 
potentially have met those requirements, if indeed he had a genuine need to do so. 
The fact find said Mr P could not obtain a loan. But Mr P says it was his son that couldnt 
obtain a loan. And him obtaining one wasnt discussed. And, based on the failings Ive 
already identified in the fact finding, I think its unlikely this was discussed in any great detail. 
As Ive mentioned Mr P has said he had a small defined contribution pension, valued at 
around £14,000. He couldve taken 25% of that as a tax-free sum and drawn down additional 
sums flexibly, albeit these wouldve been subject to taxation. But based on his salary and the 
fact he was a basic rate taxpayer, it appears this couldve provided him an equivalent 
amount to that which was released by transferring his DB pension  if indeed that amount 
was actually required, which I dont think Portal did enough to establish. And this wouldnt 
have involved giving up Mr Ps guaranteed pension income or exposing his fund to 
significant risk. But there was no consideration of this recorded or outlined.
The letter instead simply said Portal didnt recommend a transfer because of the critical yield 
 which wasnt even explained with any real additional context. I think Portal was correct that 
the required critical yield was unlikely to be achievable. And this meant that a transfer was 
not financially viable. But this isnt the only thing Id have expected Portal to take into 
account before making a personal recommendation. The critical yield is important, and a 
strong indicator of whether retirement benefits are likely to be better or not by transferring. 
But this isnt the only consideration for whether advice is suitable. And given the lack of any further explanation or analysis, I dont think Portal provided full and clear advice to Mr P, 
such that it left him in a position to make an informed decision  about the transfer or about 
being an insistent client. And I think the summary advice itself was then significantly 
undermined. 
Immediately after saying transferring would be against its recommendation, Portal promoted 
the option of still releasing money from Mr Ps if he signed forms that it enclosed, agreeing to 
proceed as an insistent client. One of the forms included a summary of his options as they 
were  with proceeding against the advice listed as the first option. 
The letter also encouraged these forms to be returned immediately as the transfer value 
provided may expire and Mr P may incur a cost to have this recalculated. But given that the 
transfer value seems to have been provided at the start of October 2012 and in my 
experience such quotes tend to last for several months, I dont think a decision needed to be 
made as quickly as Portal suggested. The letter also said, only when these forms were 
returned would Portal send out application forms and a suitability report detailing its advice  
which should have already been provided given this letter purported to be Portals 
recommendation.
A suitability report and covering letter were issued on 31 October 2012 (two days after the 
initial letter recommending against the transfer) as Mr P had apparently returned his insistent 
client form in the meantime. This is quite a fast turnaround time for the insistent client form to 
be returned and then a full further assessment of Mr Ps circumstances to be carried out to 
determine a suitable investment strategy  which is what Portal says it did.
The covering letter accompanying the suitability report said it outlined Portals 
recommendation. And that following the recommendation would mean Mr P released tax-
free cash  suggesting it in fact thought the transfer was appropriate. And it said it believed 
the recommendation made was suitable for Mr P  the course of action that facilitated the 
release of TFC, the transfer. 
The covering letter included a further declaration for Mr P to say he understood he would be 
treated as an insistent client. But this notwithstanding, I think there was significant enough 
doubt and contradiction in the correspondence Mr P was sent for him to believe that Portal 
was in fact recommending a transfer.
I acknowledge this suitability report repeated that the transfer was against Portals 
recommendations. And it included some general risk warnings. But it didnt give any further 
context to why the transfer was not being recommended  particularly in relation to Mr Ps 
specific circumstances. There was no additional comparison of the benefits that Mr P would 
be entitled to under his DB scheme in comparison to those potentially available under the 
recommended SIPP. And it made no further reference to why potential alternatives to 
achieve Mr Ps apparent requirements had not been considered. 
As a result, I dont think the suitability report was sufficient as a recommendation not to 
proceed. It didnt explore Mr Ps objectives, or robustly test them, nor did it look into 
alternative ways of meeting those requirements, without transferring his DB scheme 
benefits. It didnt provide any real meaningful comparison for Mr P to consider. And the 
correspondence in general muddied the waters, which I think on balance likely led Mr P to 
believe that Portal felt the transfer was appropriate.
I also dont think the investments recommended to Mr P were appropriate. Mr P may have 
had a balanced attitude to risk as Portal says  although I dont think the risk assessment 
accounted for his capacity for loss. But even so, I dont think the recommendation that 87.5% 
of his pension fund be placed in UCIS was suitable. Portal has said it recommended these investments because Mr P had indicated a concern with the risks associated with stock 
market-based investments. But I dont think that justifies recommending that the majority of 
his SIPP be invested in funds which the regulator generally considered have a high degree 
of volatility, illiquidity or both and which are speculative and rarely regarded as suitable for 
more than a small part of a portfolio. And despite what Portal has said about having 
assessed these as being appropriate for Mr P Ive seen nothing to indicate he had the 
requisite knowledge or experience to accept or understand the risks associated with these 
UCIS investments.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think the advice given by Portal was suitable here.
Insistent client
Despite the advice being, in my view, incomplete and unsuitable, I think Portal then also 
directed Mr P towards disregarding it anyway. 
Before Portal had even provided a formal suitability report, it promoted the opportunity for 
Mr P to proceed against its advice - immediately after saying it didnt recommend 
transferring, in the next paragraph of the same letter. I dont think that was appropriate or in 
his best interests. And Portal also required him to identify as an insistent client in order for it 
to provide a suitability report  setting out the reasons for its recommendation.
And even then, although the statement that transferring would be against Portals 
recommendation was repeated in the subsequent report, there was no additional context 
provided. And this was followed by the recommendation to transfer out of the DB scheme to 
a SIPP in the same report. Which, as Ive said above, I think seriously undermined the 
recommendation not to transfer.
Portal was required to ensure that it treated Mr P fairly and that it acted in his best interests. 
And Im not persuaded that it did treat Mr P fairly when it went to such lengths to assist Mr P 
to identify as an insistent client. And overall, I have serious concerns with the process used 
and whether Mr P was in fact an insistent client.
I dont think the process was geared towards Mr P making an informed, considered 
assessment of the reasons why he shouldnt be transferring  as if it was I feel that would 
have involved Portal providing the full recommendation to Mr P, allowing him to consider this 
on his own and then revert to Portal if he still wished to proceed. Rather than disregarding 
the advice being actively promoted at the same time it was given. 
I would go as far as to say that Portals process was in fact designed to facilitate the transfer, 
with significant emphasis placed on the release of funds and how this could be achieved 
from the outset. I dont think that providing Mr P with a means of proceeding against the 
advice, without establishing why he wanted to go against it, why the apparent requirements 
were truly necessary and why alternatives werent appropriate demonstrates that Portal had 
his best interests in mind.
Overall, I think this shows that Portal made it altogether far too easy for Mr P to agree that 
he was an insistent client rather than allowing him time to think about the advice not to go 
ahead with the transfer.
Would Mr P have acted differently?
As Ive summarised, I think the advice was unsuitable and the process followed didnt allow 
Mr P to make an informed decision about whether to be an insistent client. But even so, I 
need to think whether he would always have gone ahead and transferred  if clear advice had been provided and an appropriate process followed. 
As Ive said, Mr P has been clear that he was thinking about accessing funds from his 
pension. And he seems to have initiated enquiries about this. He also has been clear that he 
was intending to help his son by providing him access to the TFC. And he has said that this 
is what he ultimately did. But even though Mr P has used the funds for the purpose that he 
said he was going to, I dont think that means this was a genuine need. 
I dont doubt he was interested in helping his son. And when he became aware it may be 
possible to access £8,891 from his DB scheme pension tax-free, this wouldve had 
significant appeal. But the main purpose of a pension is again to provide an income in 
retirement. And this DB scheme, which does appear to have represented the majority of 
Mr Ps private pension arrangement, wouldve provided him with a guaranteed retirement 
income. Which I think wouldve been very important to him in retirement. 
And, as Ive mentioned, it appears that he had the ability to raise funds, of around the same 
amount, from his other defined contribution pension without giving up this guaranteed 
income. This wouldve resulted in him incurring some tax. But if a clear explanation had been 
provided, I think he wouldve come to the conclusion that the long term value of his 
guaranteed benefits outweighed this initial tax charge  particularly given hed also be able 
to take TFC from his DB scheme when he did eventually retire.
Overall, I think, as an inexperienced investor, had Mr P been provided with more appropriate 
and robust advice around why the transfer was not suitable, I dont think hed have gone 
ahead. I know Portal says it recommended Mr P not transfer  which overall Ive found to be 
what shouldve happened. But the process Portal used lacked sufficient clarity, reasoning 
and rigour  for all the reasons set out above. And, in my view, meant Mr P wasnt able to 
make an informed decision. 
If Mr P had been provided with more appropriate information and reasoning, so that he fully 
understood the risks and long-term implications involved in transferring his DB scheme 
benefits and investing as he did and hadnt been directed towards the insistent client route, 
I think he would have acted differently and remained in the scheme until the normal scheme 
retirement age. As a result, I think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld.
As I noted earlier, there have been significant issues with the performance of the funds into 
which Mr Ps pension was invested. But I think without Portals failings, Mr P wouldnt have 
gone ahead with the transfer. So, the funds wouldnt have been invested as they were. So, I 
think it is appropriate to hold Portal responsible for all of the losses Mr P has incurred. 
Our Investigator recommended that Portal also pay Mr P £300 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr P has been caused distress and concern in relation 
to his retirement planning  particularly more recently where his fund was revalued to a 
nominal amount. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for the unsuitable 
advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. And I consider Mr P would 
have most likely remained in the DB scheme. 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance - https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr P whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance / rules to come into effect. He didnt make 
a choice, so as set out at the time, Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for the 
new guidance to come into effect. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr P. 
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, for the reasons set out above, I think Mr P wouldve remained in his DB scheme 
until the normal scheme retirement age and compensation should be based on this as per 
the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ps acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ps 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ps SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, wed usually say the compensation should if 
possible be paid into Mr Ps pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible, appropriate or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional 
deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the 
loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount must where possible be paid to Mr P within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr P.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My aim is to return Mr P to the position he wouldve been in but for the actions of Portal. This 
is complicated where investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be readily sold on the 
open market) as their value cant be determined, which appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portal should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take ownership 
of the investment. If Portal is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil value for the 
purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations should 
include anything Portal has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied 
to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portal may ask Mr P to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow 
for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. 
Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portal asks Mr P to 
provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon 
provision of that undertaking.
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
(should Mr P wish to move his investment portfolio) and further SIPP fees to be prevented, 
the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be 
achieved by Portal taking over the investment, or this is something that Mr P can discuss 
with his SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take. Third parties are 
involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. 
To provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portal pay Mr P an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This 
should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed
In addition, Portal should pay Mr P £300 for the distress caused by the disruption to Mr Ps 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr P any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr P any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr P the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr P.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman