DRN-4352324
The complaint
Mr M complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase (Chase) wont refund 
money he lost after he fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary, I understand it to be as follows.
Mr M was looking to book a flight and came across what he thought looked like a good deal 
on a well-known social media marketplace. Mr M has explained that hed purchased flights 
on the marketplace before, but through a different supplier, and hadnt had any problems. 
But unknown to him at the time, the supplier he was now dealing with was not legitimate and 
he was communicating with fraudsters.
In order to purchase the flights, Mr M was instructed to make payment to a third-party money 
remittance firm using his Chase debit card. Mr M went ahead and, on 14 February 2023, 
made a payment as instructed for £500. He was expecting to be provided with the tickets as 
soon as hed sent the payment, but the fraudsters failed to send them and Mr M was then 
unable to get in contact with them when he tried to call them.
Mr M raised the matter with Chase the following day. Chase looked into Mr Ms complaint, 
but didnt uphold it. In summary, this was because it didnt consider there were any 
chargeback rights. It also didnt consider Mr M had carried out enough due diligence ahead 
of making the payment.
Unhappy with Chases response, Mr M brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, 
our Investigator didnt think the payment was particularly unusual or suspicious, so he didnt 
think Chase had missed an opportunity to identify that the payment was being made in 
relation to a scam. Our Investigator added that he also didnt think there was any 
chargeback rights, as the service was completed as directed by Mr M.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware in his submissions Mr M has referred to other situations, which he considers are 
similar to this, where banks have refunded their customers. But I would point out that, while 
on the surface complaints may seem quite similar, each complaint is determined by its own 
individual circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive looked at the individual 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mr M. Its always an upsetting experience  
to lose money to a scam, and I can understand why he wants to recoup the money he has 
sadly lost.
As a starting point, banks are expected to process the payment instructions of their 
customer. But as a matter of good industry practice, where there are grounds to suspect that 
the payment instruction might be likely to result in financial detriment to a customer through 
fraud or scam, then Id expect a bank to delay executing the  instruction until the bank can 
reassure itself that such harm will not result.
With this in mind Ive considered whether the payment Mr M made was one Chase should 
have had particular concern about. In doing so, Im mindful that a Bank has a difficult 
balance to strike in fulfilling their obligation to process payments in line with customers 
instruction against identifying, and intervening in, potentially fraudulent payments.
Having reviewed Mr Ms account activity in the months leading up to the scam, I dont 
consider this payment, for £500, would have appeared as particularly unusual or suspicious 
when compared to how the account typically ran. So Im satisfied that this payment would 
not have appeared to Chase as likely to be fraudulent or part of a scam. This means I 
havent found there are grounds for me to conclude Chase ought to have delayed fulfilling its 
primary obligation to make the payment in accordance with Mr Ms instructions. It follows I 
dont think Chase caused Mr Ms loss in failing to intervene when he made the payment.
Ive gone on to think about whether Chase could have recovered any of the money Mr M had 
sent. As he made the payment using his debit card, the only potential recovery option would 
have been through the chargeback scheme. A chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by 
card providers. It arbitrates on disputes between a customer and a merchant where they 
havent been able to resolve matters themselves. The arbitration process is subject to the 
rules of the scheme and there are only limited grounds on which a chargeback can be 
raised. Chargebacks raised outside of these grounds are deemed invalid. Its evident here 
that the card payment went to a genuine money transfer firm who, it can be said with some 
degree of certainty, will have provided the service of transferring, or otherwise making 
available, money to the fraudsters. So, Im afraid, there is no grounds to suggest that a 
chargeback dispute would have been successful and I dont think Chase made a mistake by 
declining to pursue a chargeback claim here.
Overall, taking all of the above into account, I cant say that Chase ought to have questioned 
the transactions and, while I have every sympathy for Mr M, I cant fairly and reasonably hold 
Chase responsible for his loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman