DRN-3400139
The complaint
Ms F is unhappy with the way her claim has been handled by Aviva Insurance Limited, 
trading as Quotemehappy.com 
Reference to Aviva includes its agents.
What happened
Ms F was involved in a car accident in August 2020. She says the accident wasnt her fault 
and the third-party driver left the scene, so hasnt been identified. 
Ms F was driving along the motorway when a lorry which was overtaking her hit the side of 
her car as it changed lanes. Ms F said she told Aviva to obtain the CCTV footage to check 
her version of events but it didnt.
She said Aviva repaired the drivers side mirror of her car but not the damaged bonnet and 
windscreen. Ms F said getting some of those repairs completed herself led to her being in 
financial difficulty. 
Ms F also complains Aviva didnt provide her with a courtesy car even though her policy 
stipulates she should get one. 
Ms F isnt happy her insurance premium has increased as a result of the accident. When Ms 
F attempted to contact Aviva to discuss her premium and arrange for the remaining repairs 
to be completed she says she was passed from one department to another with no offer of 
help. And so she complained to Aviva. 
Aviva said when Ms F contacted it to report the accident she told it the damage was to the 
wing mirror, and so thats what Aviva repaired. Aviva disputed the remaining repairs were 
accident related and so didnt uphold the complaint. Ms F brought her complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked into things for her. He said he was satisfied Aviva were not 
responsible for repairing the additional damage Ms F was claiming for. He also said Ms F 
was provided with a courtesy car in line with the policy and didnt think Aviva had increased 
Ms Fs premium unfairly. Ms F didnt agree with the investigator and so the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding it. I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms F. 
I can see this incident and its consequences have had a significant impact on Ms F. Ive no 
doubt Ms F has done all she can to try and prove her claim and has acted in good faith when 
reporting the accident to the insurer. I can understand why she thought the other driver 
would be held at fault and so her repairs would be covered, and her premium wouldnt 
increase the way it did. 
My role here is to look at whether Aviva acted in a fair and reasonable manner and within the 
terms and conditions of the policy in the handling of the claim. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Remaining repairs
I can see from the file Ms F said the remaining repairs were accident related. Aviva disputed 
this. It said it didnt think the car would have been damaged to that extent as a result of the 
accident. But there wasnt any persuasive evidence proving Ms Fs version of events. I know 
Ms F sent a number of photographs to Aviva in support of her claim. She also has a report 
from a garage which details some damage to the front bumper, bonnet, and headlights. 
I have seen the reports Ms F has obtained from her garage. And whilst they do detail other 
damage to the car besides the wing mirror, the damage is described as being on the 
opposite side to where the lorry hit the car. I can see Aviva and this service asked Ms F to 
provide an updated report if she considered the one she has to be incorrect. As far as I can 
tell no such report has been provided. 
Avivas engineer looked at the photographs and their report from when the car was taken in 
for repair initially. The engineer said the damage described by Ms F was on the opposite 
side to the side of the impact. And so the damage wasnt considered to be attributable to the 
accident. I think it was fair for Aviva to rely on its engineers to help inform its decision. I can 
see why Ms F was so concerned about the claim, especially given the remaining repairs on 
her car. But I dont think it was wrong for Aviva to decline to repair the remaining damage. It 
is entitled to do this by the policy terms. So I think it has acted in a reasonable way here. 
CCTV 
Ms F said she expected Aviva to obtain the CCTV footage of the accident in order to 
ascertain the circumstances of the accident. Aviva said in its experience the footage 
obtained from a motorway, where the accident happened, would most likely be traffic 
monitoring rather than typical CCTV. And this means its unlikely the footage would show 
anything to help Ms Fs claim.
I appreciate how strongly Ms F feels about this. As an insurer Aviva is likely to have 
experience of obtaining footage from motorways. And how it was unlikely any footage would 
assist. I dont think Avivas decision here was unreasonable. 
Courtesy Car  
The policy says, we aim to provide a courtesy car within one working day (however if an 
incident occurs during a weekend or bank/public holiday, it may not be possible to provide a 
courtesy car until the following normal working day). 
Ms F was involved in the accident late on a Friday evening. And the following Monday was a 
bank holiday. I see from the notes Ms F was provided with a courtesy car on 1 September 
which was the next working day after the accident. So I dont think Aviva have acted unfairly 
or outside the policy terms here.Ms F reported further damage to her car when it was returned following repair to the wing 
mirror. Aviva didnt provide a courtesy car at this stage since it didnt attribute the reported 
damage to the accident. The policy says, a courtesy car will only be provided when your 
claim has been accepted and your car is repairable. Since Ms Fs claim for the further 
damage wasnt accepted Aviva werent obliged to provide a courtesy car. And I think thats 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Increased premium 
It is important to explain we are not the industry regulator. That means its not my role to tell 
an insurer how much it can charge for its policies. And our service generally takes the view 
that provided it treats people fairly an insurer is entitled to charge what it feels it needs to in 
order to cover a risk. 
Ms F isnt happy her insurance premium has increased following the accident. But since 
Aviva hadnt been able to recover its costs from the third party the incident was recorded as 
a fault claim. And this has meant her premium has increased. The increase is in line with 
Avivas usual practice and is standard practice across the industry. So I dont think Aviva has 
done anything wrong in increasing the premium. 
Ive considered the information provided to me by Ms F and Aviva. I must say I empathise 
with the position Ms F finds herself in. Unfortunately I dont think this is due to Aviva and its 
handling of the claim. 
Aviva took a view that in the absence of detailed independent evidence to prove the damage 
to Ms Fs car was due to the third party, it wouldnt be liable for those repairs. In addition 
Avivas own expert was unable to see a link between the accident circumstances and the 
damage to Ms Fs car. I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably here since it relied on the 
evidence before it in order to come to that conclusion. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Ms F but overall I think Aviva has acted fairly and 
reasonably, and in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman