DRN-2641927
The complaint
Ms M and Mr P have complained about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) 
handled a claim they made under their home insurance policy following an escape of water. 
Mr P is the main contact for their complaint. 
What happened
In October 2019 Mr P reported water damage to a ground floor office room after discovering 
a leak from an upstairs bathroom. RSA accepted their claim and arranged for stripping out 
and drying works to take place in both rooms. 
After drying out was completed in December 2019, RSA appointed a contractor in January 
2020 to provide a scope of works for the repairs. Mr P was unhappy with the time it was 
taking to progress the claim and in early March 2020 he obtained an estimate for the repairs 
from an independent contractor which Ill refer to as O. Os estimate came to around 
£19,000. 
In July 2020 RSA considered two estimates provided by Mr P. It said the estimate provided 
by O wouldnt be considered as this was significantly higher than their own contractors 
estimate. However, the second estimate provided by Mr P was similar to their own 
contractors. To move the claim forward, RSA gave Mr P the following options:
Accept a cash settlement based on their scope of works presented. Mr P could then 
use contractor O, but they would need to pay the difference. 
Allow RSAs contractor to complete the repairs or;
RSA will appoint an independent loss assessor to attend and scope the repairs 
again, considering all the additional information provided. 
As Mr P didnt accept the options provided by RSA, it instructed an independent loss 
adjuster in order to progress the claim. He found that the second estimate provided by Mr P 
and the original estimate provided by RSAs contractor was broadly correct. He said the 
estimate provided by O was overpriced and included works not required and which would 
amount to betterment. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said the lower estimates were based on superficial repairs and that 
further damage was identified after stripping out was done. He wanted RSA to pay a cash 
settlement in line with Os estimate, which RSA refused. 
RSA settled their furniture claim by paying a cash settlement based on an estimate provided 
by Mr P. RSA reiterated its offer for the building repairs to pay a cash settlement in line with 
the lower estimates and the independent loss assessors findings  minus the excess of 
£350. Alternatively, it could arrange for its contractors to carry out the repairs. 
Mr P asked us to look at things for them. He and Ms M were unhappy with the delay caused 
before national restrictions came into force in March 2020. He didnt think RSAs offer was 
reasonable and wanted it to pay a cash settlement based on Os estimate. 
RSA upheld their complaint in part. It accepted that there were some avoidable delays and 
paid Mr P and Ms M £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused. 
It said that aside from the delay, it had reasonably dealt with their claim. It had provided 
alternatives which werent accepted. 
In August 2020 RSA said it would no longer cover storage costs for Mr P and Ms Ms items 
from the office after 24 September 2020. Their items were returned to them on 9 October 
2020. 
Our investigator thought RSA had acted reasonably based on all of the evidence available. 
So she didnt recommend their complaint should be upheld. 
Mr P didnt agree. In summary they had reservations about the independent loss assessor 
based on reviews, and the outcome was as they had anticipated. Mr P believes RSA are 
responsible for further delay by instructing the loss assessor rather than settling their claim 
by meeting the costs of Os estimate. Mr P says they have no confidence in the contractors 
of RSA and the quality of service they received has been extremely poor. Theyre unhappy 
that they paid for an independent report from O and provided receipts, but havent been 
reimbursed. 
Mr P says due to Ms Ms job, during Covid 19 they have been put to inconvenience by not 
having access to their main bathroom and Ms M had to take time off work. 
So Mr P and Ms M want an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to the complaint about settling their claim for furniture, Mr P hasnt made any 
further comment about this in response to the investigators findings. And having considered 
this issue, I think RSAs decision to pay a cash settlement equivalent to the estimate 
provided by Mr P was fair and reasonable. 
Dealing with any claim, particularly one involving an escape of water will inevitably involve a 
level of disruption and inconvenience. Unfortunately this is unavoidable. Ive no doubt that 
living in these conditions can cause distress. My role is to take an even handed and impartial 
approach to all of the information provided by both parties  and decide whether the insurer 
has acted reasonably and in line with the policy. In this case there was some unavoidable 
delay due to the restrictions that came into place in March 2020 which was outside of RSAs 
control. 
RSA accepts that it caused some delay in progressing the claim before restrictions came 
into effect. The drying works were completed by December 2019 and in January 2020 RSA 
instructed a contractor to provide a scope of works of the repairs needed. Having chased 
RSA between January and March 2020, Mr P obtained estimates and provided these to 
RSA. I think RSA at times caused avoidable delay until this stage  and for this I think the 
compensation it paid of £200 was reasonable. 
As Mr P didnt accept the options RSA provided, I think RSA took a reasonable approach in 
appointing an independent loss assessor to consider all of the estimates and visit Mr P and 
Ms Ms home. And having done so, he found that the estimates  apart from O  were 
broadly in line with each other. Os estimate is around four times more than the others. 
I understand Mr P says that the initial repair details werent accurate. And so he says the 
second (lower) estimate he provided was based on these inaccurate repairs. So he doesnt 
think its fair that RSA has relied on either of them. He says the estimate provided by O 
includes repairs that have been missed by RSAs contractors and the independent loss 
assessor. 
However, RSA disagreed. Our Investigator set out these points in detail in her view, so I 
dont intend to repeat them here. But I can see from email exchanges between Mr P and 
RSA that it addressed the additional concerns Mr P raised following the independent loss 
assessors visit.
Mr P feels their offer for RSA to pay 50% of the estimate provided by O was reasonable. But 
I think  taking into account all of the information available  RSA acted reasonably in relying 
on the opinion of the independent assessor when deciding how best to settle the claim. 
I understand Mr P and Ms M were responsible for some additional storage costs between 25 
September 2020 and 9 October 2020. Mr P says RSA caused further delay by appointing an 
independent loss assessor when they could have instructed O to carry out the repairs 
sooner. But I think from the outset RSA made it clear that it didnt consider Os estimate to 
be reasonable. And I think from July 2020 it provided reasonable options to progress the 
claim to settlement as promptly as possible. RSA said that if Mr P and Ms M wanted to use 
O to complete the repairs, they were free to do so but they would need to pay the difference 
above the cash settlement based on their scope of works for repairs. RSAs policy has a 
very common term which explains that the most it will pay for incident related repairs is the 
equivalent of the cost it would pay its preferred contractor to do the same.
So while I understand Mr P and Ms M didnt accept RSAs proposals to progress the claim 
from July 2020, I cant say that its responsible for any continued delay. The ongoing dispute 
between RSA and Mr P and Ms M was the main reason why the claim didnt progress.
I realise Mr P and Ms M will be very disappointed with my decision. But taking everything 
into account, I think RSA has paid a fair amount of compensation for the delay it caused. 
And I think it properly considered the claim - and its proposals to settle it were reasonable 
and in line with the policy. So this means Im not asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman