DRN-3501557
The complaint
Miss P complained with the way her claim was managed and her complaint handled by 
Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) under her home emergency policy.
What happened
Miss P had an intermittent leak in her bathroom and made a claim to Aviva to fix it. She paid 
the policy excess. Aviva arranged for an engineer to visit at Miss Ps convenience, but the 
leak wasnt active or visible at the time of the visit. Miss P said the engineer said, the only 
cause for a one-off leak was human behaviour of having water escape the bathtub and 
advised using more bathmats to contain the water more carefully.
Miss P hoped to have her excess refunded as she said Aviva hadnt needed to do any work. 
She had experienced a refund on a previous occasion. Aviva said our engineer attended 
and has diagnosed that the bath and floor area needed re-sealing. Subsequently, you are 
disputing this and stated that our engineer was lying. Aviva said investigative work was 
carried out, so it wouldnt refund the excess.
Miss P said the engineer had told her something different. She said, he had said the sealant 
was in good condition, so she was unhappy when Aviva wouldnt change its decision. Miss P 
thought Aviva shouldve done more to investigate what had happened. She wants her 
excess payment refunded, her monthly payments refunded and a compensation payment of 
£50.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought Aviva had dealt with the 
claim and charged the excess in line with the policy terms. Miss P disagreed, so the 
complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the information Miss P has provided, but without evidence to support her 
testimony, I wont be able to be uphold this complaint. Ill explain a little more why I think this.
Miss P made a claim as she had a leak. I can see Aviva took a £30 excess payment from 
Miss P as outlined in its policy terms. A leak is something that was covered by the policy, so 
Aviva dispatched an engineer as it was expected to under the policy. So, I think Aviva has 
followed a reasonable process.
When the engineer attended, there was no evident leak. Miss P requested a refund of the 
excess payment she had paid. I can see the policy states excess payments will be refunded 
if the claim is cancelled prior to the engineer attending or the engineer does not start any 
investigative works due to the problem not being covered. However, I dont see how this 
would apply here as the problem claimed for was covered by the policy and the call out took 
place. Therefore, irrespective of the amount of time the engineer spent at Miss Ps property, 
I wouldnt expect the excess payment to be refunded. Therefore, I dont uphold this 
complaint. I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong by not doing this or not refunding 
premiums / paying compensation.
I understand Miss P has provided a different testimony to the engineer. And if she had direct 
evidence of this that she couldve shared then, Im likely to have said there was a customer 
service issue. However, it wouldnt change my opinion of the claim itself as I think Aviva has 
sufficiently met the terms and conditions of the policy. As part of its review of the complaint, 
Aviva has looked at the information it has available from the engineers visit, including the 
engineers notes. I think it has been reasonable in doing this. If Miss P had provided some 
evidence from another plumber which contradicted Avivas engineer, I have no reason to 
doubt Aviva wouldve properly considered it. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman