DRN-4037023
The complaint
Mrs R complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) handling of her claim, 
under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs R had multiple leaks from pipework at her home.  A plumber whom she contacted to 
carry out a trace and access found the leaks but didnt repair them. The leaks caused 
damage to various rooms in her home. 
She contacted Admiral to make a claim. It sent an assessor to carry out a survey. The 
survey was completed, and various trades were appointed. The first work that was 
conducted was the drying out of the area. 
Following this, Admiral advised Mrs R about stripping out and drying the property. It was 
around this time that Mrs R was first offered alternative accommodation, which she refused. 
Mrs R signed a waiver that stated that she rejected the alternative accommodation, as she 
had a working cooker and another bathroom that she could use. 
Storage costs were approved and arranged for Mrs Rs items and building works were 
attempted to be scheduled in by Admiral. Unfortunately, Mrs R postponed those works for 
personal reasons by around a month. 
The building works were started, and a kitchen pod was ordered, but as there was a four 
week wait, Admiral offered Mrs R alternative accommodation again. And again, this was 
refused. 
Mrs R raised a complaint to Admiral as she said that the contractors it sent, were rude and 
unprofessional, they used her toilet and left it in a state, there was a lot of dust and dirt in the 
home as a result of the reinstatement works and someone had broken her toilet. She also 
complained that she wasnt given a kitchen pod that had been promised to her. Mrs R told 
Admiral that she wanted the work to be suspended until after her complaint had been dealt 
with. 
Admiral considered her complaint and in its final response it said that there were no claim 
handling errors. The kitchen pod had a four week wait, so Mrs R was offered alternative 
accommodation again, which she refused and that she had signed a waiver. Finally, it said 
that the contractors accepted that they had accidentally damaged the toilet and it would be 
replaced once they returned to work. 
Admiral further said that the contractors also agreed to carry out a deep clean in Mrs Rs 
property. The contractors had tried to limit the amount of dust in the property by providing 
protection. The contractors denied using her toilet facilities. And regarding the 
unprofessional behaviour and rudeness of its contractors, Admiral asked Mrs R for further 
evidence of this. Admiral said there was nothing further it could do to resolve the complaint 
and gave Mrs R her referral rights. 
Mrs R referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the 
complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that she appreciated what Mrs R had 
said about the conduct of the contractors, but she hadnt provided any further evidence to 
corroborate this. She said that Mrs R had confirmed that Admiral had taken steps to clean 
her home and appliances. And that Admiral had agreed to replace the accidentally broken 
toilet. She finally said that Mrs R had been offered alternative accommodation throughout 
the claim, which she refused. So, she concluded that she was unable to recommend that 
Admiral do anything further with regards to the complaint. 
Admiral accepted the view, Mrs R did not. She felt that the issues that she had raised were 
not dealt with. Specifically, that the toilet hadnt been accidentally broken. That it was one of 
the contractors who had arranged for the cleaning of her appliances and not Admiral. No one 
had contacted her about getting her home deep cleaned. As her appliances were covered in 
dirt, she would need them to be safety tested after they were cleaned and returned to her. 
Finally, it was correct that she refused alternative accommodation and she questioned why it 
had been mentioned at all. She said that she had no working kitchen and her house had 
been left in a mess. She didnt expect that a year on, her home would still be in this state. 
So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mrs R, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I have considered both partys comments. From the evidence, the main issues of this 
complaint are, the contractors didnt show care or listen, a kitchen pod was promised but 
didnt arrive, Alternative accommodation wasnt requested or agreed to and the conduct of 
the contractors. So, Ill base my findings to these issues. 
I should mention that Admiral are Mrs Rs insurers and one of its obligations is to appoint 
contractors and other tradesmen, who then undertake work for and on behalf of Admiral. I 
understand that Mrs R said that it was one of the contractors who arranged for the cleaning 
of her appliances. But it was Admiral who ultimately gave the contractor the authority to 
clean the appliances. So, I cant agree that Admiral werent involved in the decision to have 
her appliances cleaned. 
Mrs R also said that at no time was she told that her property would be deep cleaned. But 
following Mrs Rs complaint about the level of dust in her home, Admiral (via the contractor) 
authorised as long ago as 23 September 2022, that her home would be deep cleaned. I 
understand that Mrs R during the course of this investigation was provided with evidence to 
support this. Consequently, Im unable to agree that Mrs R wasnt aware that her home 
would be deep cleaned on completion of the works. 
Mrs R said that the contractors damaged her toilet. She believes that it wasnt accidental, 
and it was because the contractors shouldve removed the toilet (following the leak) but were 
unable to do so and caused damage. Admiral agreed that the toilet had been accidentally damaged by its contractors. It appears 
that the toilet had been concreted into the floor and needed to be removed. But when this 
wasnt possible, it was decided by Admiral to leave it in situ. In any event, I accept that the 
toilet became damaged. But Admiral has agreed to replace the toilet, which I think is fair and 
reasonable. 
As to whether it was an accident, Mrs R hasnt provided me with further evidence to support 
why she believed that the toilet wasnt accidentally damaged. Accordingly, Im persuaded 
that the damage was accidental and its right that Admiral pay for the cost of replacing the 
damage toilet. 
I note from the policy terms and conditions, that Mrs R had alternative accommodation 
allowance. Mrs R accepts that she was offered alternative accommodation but refused this 
offer as she chose to remain in her home, which was her right. I understand that Admiral 
asked Mrs R to sign a waiver form. In it, she indicated that she was happy to stay in her 
home, as she had the use of another bathroom and she had cooking facilities available to 
her. 
I think that Admiral were fair to offer Mrs R alternative accommodation, given that the leak 
(which caused considerable damage) would likely result in Mrs Rs home becoming 
uninhabitable. So, I cant agree that it was unreasonable for Admiral to offer the alternative 
accommodation. And given the amount of reinstatement work, I think its reasonable to 
assume that living in the property would be quite difficult. So, I cant criticise Admiral for 
offering the alternative accommodation. 
Mrs R also complained that she wasnt given a kitchen pod. The contractors informed her 
that there was a four week wait for the pods to become available and again Admiral offered 
her alternative accommodation. I note that Mrs R queried why alternative accommodation 
was being mentioned at all. As Ive previously said, the reinstatement works at some point 
wouldve made living in the home very difficult. Indeed, one of the issues of Mrs Rs 
complaint was that her home was dirty and dusty (due to the work being carried out). And I 
think this would be a reason why some policyholders might not want to live in their homes 
whilst reinstatement work was being carried out. 
But I can appreciate that Mrs R wanted to live in her home whilst the work was being carried 
out. I must also say any claim of this nature, is going to involve a homeowner in some 
inconvenience. And I think that because of this, Admiral offered the alternative 
accommodation. Consequently, I dont think Admiral were unreasonable to have offered the 
alternative accommodation, as it appeared to have anticipated that Mrs Rs living conditions 
would be affected. Which they were.
I acknowledge that Mrs R said that she was without a working kitchen, but she did sign a 
waiver form and in it stated that she had cooking facilities. So, I cant accept that she was 
without a working kitchen.
Finally, Mrs R complained that the contractors were rude to her and made unprofessional 
comments. Whilst I cant dispute what she has said, I note that Mrs R hasnt provided me 
with any further evidence to support this. And Admirals contractors have denied this 
behaviour. So, Im unable to uphold this point without clear evidence confirming this. 
Mrs R also said that she didnt understand why the reinstatement works were taking so long. 
I have reviewed the timeline of events and there were times during the claims process when 
Mrs R specifically requested for Admiral to postpone work. The first occasion duration, was 
around a month. She also told Admiral to stop work until the complaint had been resolved. I 
must say that prior to the stoppages that Mrs R requested, Admiral had been progressing the claim as we wouldve expected it to do. So, I cant agree that there were delays because 
of Admiral. 
I acknowledge Mrs Rs strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why she 
referred it to our service. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen 
enough evidence to show that Admiral acted unreasonably. So, I cant fairly ask it to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman