DRN-3080023
The complaint
Ms B complains about a number of aspects relating to her hire purchase agreement with
Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway.
What happened
Ms B entered into a hire purchase agreement with Moneyway in January 2019 to acquire a
car. The cash price of the car was £11,434 and the total to be repaid under the agreement
was £19,590.40, to be repaid by 59 monthly payments of £326.34 and a final payment of
£336.34.
In March 2019 Ms B contacted Moneyway to ask about modifying or settling the agreement
in order to obtain a larger car. She subsequently raised a number of concerns about her hire
purchase agreement. In summary she said;
- the car had been over priced;
- she was vulnerable and had been pressured into signing the agreement;
- the car was not of satisfactory quality because the horn didnt work;
- she didnt believe that appropriate checks had been completed to ensure the
agreement was affordable; and
- Moneyway had told her that she could reject the car and unwind the agreement but
subsequently wouldnt allow her to.
Moneyway issued a final response to Ms Bs complaint in May 2019. It suggested that she
contact the supplying dealer if she was unhappy with its conduct regarding the signing of the
agreement. It was otherwise satisfied that;
- the cars sale price was similar to industry valuations;
- appropriate affordability checks had been carried out; and
- its records didnt show that it had agreed to unwind the agreement.
Lastly, Moneyway accepted that there was a fault with the cars horn but said that an
independent inspection had concluded it likely wasnt present at the point the car was
supplied to Ms B. It noted that the supplying dealer had offered to address the problem, but
because Ms B had said she felt intimidated by the supplying dealer, Moneyway offered to
consider covering the cost of the repair if Ms B provided quotes.
Dissatisfied with Moneyways response, Ms B referred her complaint to this service in
April 2019. The case was considered by more than one investigator, but ultimately they
concluded that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Ms B and that the
supplying dealer was entitled to price the car at their discretion.
The investigator who considered the case most recently, however, was not satisfied that
Moneyway had carried out appropriate checks to ensure the loan was affordable for Ms B.
But, having considered the information Ms B provided about her financial position at the
time, our investigator decided that Moneyway likely wouldve concluded that the loan was
affordable even if it had conducted further checks in relation to Ms Bs financial
circumstances.
Ms B didnt agree. She made a number of further points about why she didnt think the
payments to the agreement were affordable. Our investigator considered the further
comments and evidence which Ms B provided in support of her assertion but remained of
the opinion that the agreement was ultimately affordable.
While the case has been with this service, Moneyway collected the car and ended the
agreement as Ms B had not made many payments towards it.
Ms B asked for a decision on the case. It was passed to me and I issued a provisional 
decision explaining why I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. In summary, I said;
Its clear from Ms Bs submissions that she feels strongly about her complaint and that shes
unhappy with the way Moneyway has treated her. I also recognise that the circumstances
behind this complaint has caused Ms B a great deal of worry and I note that shes said its
detrimentally affected her health. Im very sorry to hear how things have affected Ms B.
I can assure Ms B that Ive carefully considered all of the evidence shes given us in detail. I
wont, however, find it necessary to address every point Ms B has made in detail. My
decision will focus on what I considered to be the relevant points to the complaint. Our rules
allow me to do this.
Did Moneyway carry out a reasonable and proportionate check of Ms Bs ability to repay the
lending
Ms B says that the lending Moneyway provided was not affordable for her. In considering
this, Ill take into account relevant law, rules and guidance, codes of practice as well as what
I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Moneyway has regulatory obligations under the Consumer Credit Sourcebook or CONC
which is relevant here. It says that lenders need to carry out reasonable and proportionate
checks to understand whether Ms B could afford to make the monthly payments without
suffering any significant adverse impact on her financial position.
With that in mind, I think theres two questions I need to examine to decide what a fair and
reasonable outcome to this aspect of the complaint would be;
1. Did Moneyway complete a reasonable and proportionate check to satisfy itself that
Ms B would be able to repay the borrowing without suffering any significant adverse
impact on her financial position?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Ms B could 
afford to make the monthly payments without suffering any significant adverse impact 
on her financial position.
2. Did Moneyway act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way.
Carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks doesnt look the same for every customer.
Id have expected Moneyway to take into account a number of factors to determine what a
reasonable and proportionate check was for Ms Bs circumstances, including (but not limited
to) her financial circumstances, the amount of credit, the total repayable as well as the
duration of the agreement and size of the regular payments.
Ms B was required to pay £19,590.40 over 60 months via payments of around £326.34 per
month. Taking into account thats a significant financial commitment, Id expect Moneyway to
have a detailed understanding of Ms Bs finances in order to be able to judge whether shecould make the repayments she was committing to.
Moneyway has shared evidence of the checks it did and questions it asked at the point Ms B
applied for the lending. They show that Ms B told it she had been with her employer for three
years, her income was £2,000 per month and she was single, living at home with her
parents. It doesnt appear that Moneyway asked Ms B for evidence of her income or
expenditure.
Moneyway told us that it carried out an automated affordability assessment which included
an algorithmic analysis of the information on Ms Bs credit file to determine her income and
expenditure, and it compared that to the information provided by Ms B at the time of her
application. It said that it took all of that into account, as well as information from the Office of
National Statistics, to determine her ability to repay the loan alongside her existing
commitments. It said that Ms B passed the affordability assessment and it was satisfied she
could afford the lending.
However, the credit check Moneyway carried out showed that Ms B had had previous, albeit
historic, difficulties repaying credit which had resulted in a county court judgement being
obtained against her. This combined with the level of financial commitment being taken on
by Ms B, leads me to agree with our investigator that Moneyway ought to have asked Miss B
more questions about her financial circumstances. In particular I think it, at the very least,
obtained some further information about her committed monthly expenditure and it ought to
have asked her for evidence of her income.
Given that I think it wouldve been reasonable for Moneyway to have asked Ms B for that
information and I cant see that it did, it follows that I dont think the check it did was
reasonable and proportionate to the lending it gave her.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks more likely than not have shown
Moneyway?
Given the above, Ill need to consider what would more likely than not have happened if
Moneyway had carried out a reasonable and proportionate check of Ms Bs ability to
repaying the lending.
In order to do that I need an understanding of Ms Bs financial position at the time. We asked
Ms B for a copy of her credit file, bank statements as well as details of her income and
expenditure. Thats not to say that I wouldve expected Moneyway to ask for all of that
evidence, but it does allow us to build a reasonably accurate picture of Ms Bs financial
position at the time and provide an indication of what reasonable and proportionate checks
are more likely than not to have shown.
Im aware that Ms B disputes the accuracy of some of the details about her personal
circumstances which were presented on her application. She says that she was told by an
agent acting on behalf of Moneyway that the application would be more likely to be
successful if she said she was single with no dependents and living with her parents. Ms B
says that in reality she rented a property for which she was responsible for a portion of the
rent and had one dependent at the time of her application. Ms B has also said that she had
worked with her employer for a few months rather than three years.
I dont know what Moneyways agent told Ms B about the application process and what shed
said about her circumstances at the time. I accept its possible Ms B might have been told
about circumstances where applications had previously been accepted for other customers.
But, in any event, I dont think that this makes too much of a difference here as Im not
persuaded that what weve been told now and what weve been presented by Ms B wouldveshown Moneyway that Ms B couldnt afford the repayments.
Before assessing whether or not Ms B had sufficient disposable income to sustainably meet
the required repayments, I understand that Ms B believes that her credit history ought to
have discouraged Moneyway from lending to her. Ill address that first.
Ms B didnt provide us with a copy of her credit file, but Ive seen the credit check Moneyway
carried out. The check showed that Ms B had a current and credit card account which were
both up to date and within their credit limits, both of which featured debit balances lower than
Ms B has suggested. I accept that the credit check showed adverse information too,
specifically a telecommunications account which had defaulted in 2014 and still had an
outstanding balance as well as a County Court Judgement (CCJ) recorded, and repaid, in
2014. It also showed a default related to an insurance product recorded in 2014.
I accept that this adverse information on Ms Bs credit file meant that Moneyway ought to
have done more to establish that the repayments were affordable. But given the CCJ was
just over four years before this application and the only other accounts were up to date, Im
not persuaded that Moneyways credit check in itself suggested that Ms B was struggling
financially, or that she shouldnt be lent to. It follows that I dont think that Ms Bs credit
history ought to have stopped Moneyway from lending to her.
Ms B told us that shed only been with her employer from November 2018 and in that month
she was paid around £1,110. She said in both December 2018 and January 2019 she was
paid a wage of around £1,350 as well as a £2,000 dividend during December 2018, which
was a payment she wouldnt expect to receive regularly. Ms B said she wouldve been
responsible for paying tax on those sums as she was self-employed. Ms B told us she
wouldnt be able to provide evidence of those payments in the form of pay slips. She also
told us that the company shed worked for stopped trading shortly after she entered into the
agreement with Moneyway.
I think its fair to say that the picture Ms B has presented of her income and expenditure isnt
a consistent one. For example, Ms B told our investigator that she was responsible for rent
costing £950 per month and associated utility bills costing £300, both of which were split
between her and her partner. Ms B later said that only the cost of the rent was split and
provided a copy of a tenancy agreement demonstrating the cost, which started in
August 2019 and therefore a number of months after this agreement was entered into.
Ms B provided some screenshots of the movements of a current account from 3 December
2018 until 31 January 2019. Taking into account the statements Ms B had provided, as well
as the specific cost Ms B had told us about, our investigator calculated that it seemed that
Ms B likely had committed monthly expenditure for things such as travel, food, insurances
and memberships of around £470. The account movements also show a number of other
payments, which wouldnt normally form part of any affordability assessment, as well as
cash payments in and out of the account.
The rent and utility costs Ms B told us about were not evident on the current account
movements she gave us. So the information provided doesnt show me that she was actually
incurring those costs at the point of her application, particularly as the tenancy agreement
she has provided is dated some seven months after her application.
The evidence and information Ms B has provided suggests that she had committed monthly
expenses of around £470 per month. So even if its accepted that the £2,000.00 dividend Ms
B received in December 2018 was a one off payment, it seems likely Ms B wouldve been
left with sufficient disposable income, at the time of the agreement at least, to make the
payments to this agreement. So Im not persuaded that Moneyway wouldnt have, in anyevent, proceeded with the application in these circumstances.
Moreover, I think that Ms B has been given fair opportunity to provide evidence which
supports the assertions shes made about her income and expenditure at the time, showing
that she wouldnt have been able to make her monthly repayments. All things considered,
Im currently not persuaded that the lending was not affordable for Ms B based on the
evidence shes given us. Although if Ms B has anything further she wishes me to consider on
this matter she should provide it in her response to this provisional decision.
Did Moneyway treat Ms B unfairly in any other way?
Ive also considered whether Moneyway treated Ms B unfairly or unreasonably in some other
way.
The quality of the goods Ms B was provided with
As well as saying the monthly repayments were unaffordable Ms B is also unhappy with the
quality of the car she was sold. The car Ms B acquired was supplied under a hire purchase
agreement. Moneyway is the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is
responsible for dealing with a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant here. It implies that goods supplied will be
of satisfactory quality  which is defined as when goods meet the standard a reasonable
person would consider satisfactory  based on the description of the goods, the price paid as
well as other relevant circumstances. In reference to a car, that might include things like the
age, mileage and history of the car at the point it was supplied.
In this case, Ms B was supplied with a car which was approximately four years old and had
covered roughly 84,000 miles. Taking into account the cars age and its relatively high
mileage for its age, I think it would be reasonable to expect the car to have suffered a fair
amount of wear and tear. I also think that a reasonable person might expect the car to be
significantly less durable as if it had been new when supplied, for example.
It appears that the only issue Ms B had with the cars quality was in relation to the
effectiveness of the horn, and that she reported the issue to the supplying dealer just over a
month after taking the car. Moneyways contact notes show that it was made aware a month
later, and an independent inspection was carried out one month after that, at which point
Ms B had travelled around 2,500 miles in the car. The report said the horn switch was faulty
and needed to be pressed hard to operate it. The inspection concluded that the fault was
likely not present at the point of supply because it had passed an MOT very shortly before
being supplied to Ms B and no faults with the horn had been noted.
In any case, even if I were to accept that the car supplied was not of satisfactory quality
when supplied, the CRA allows Moneyway an attempt to rectify the fault if it was identified
outside of 30 days from the point of supply, which is the case here. Ive seen that Moneyway
offered to pay Ms B the cost of having the horn repaired after she told it that shed felt
intimidated by the supplying dealer and didnt want it to attempt to repair the car. Overall, I
think Moneyway has acted reasonably  and even went further than I wouldve expected it to
 in response to the issue Ms B raised regarding the cars quality.
Ms B has also made a number of points about how Moneyway has treated her unfairly, other
than in reference to the affordability of the lending and the quality of the goods provided. For
example, shes also said that she was charged too much for the car, was pressured into
agreeing to the lending she was offered and told she could reject the car only to then be told
she couldnt.Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S56) says that in certain situations finance
providers are responsible for whats been said during pre-contract negotiations. So, in this
case Moneyway is responsible for the things said by an agent acting on its behalf in
arranging the finance it provided to Ms B. As a result, I can consider Ms Bs point about
being pressured into accepting the hire purchase agreement, whether by Moneyway or one
of its agents.
I think its fair to say that theres not a lot of evidence available in relation to this point other
than Ms B and Moneyways differing version of events; Ms B says that she was told she
might not be successful in a subsequent application for credit if she didnt accept the lending
Moneyway had offered and she wasnt given sufficient opportunity to review the agreement;
Moneyway says that details of the terms of the agreement were emailed to her directly and
allowed her opportunity to review then and contact Moneyway should she have concerns,
before accepting the lending. It also provided a statement from the supplying dealer which
didnt support that Ms B had been pressured.
Whilst I dont doubt that an agent could have suggested a subsequent application for lending
might not be successful and Ms B did want a car at that point, the evidence and information
Ive got here isnt strong enough for me to make a finding that either Moneyway or any agent
acting on its behalf exerted undue pressure on Ms B which resulted in her accepting the
lending Moneyway offered when she otherwise would have not. I also recognise that Ms B
says she was particularly vulnerable at the point she applied for lending with Moneyway. And
its possible that her state of mind at the time might have played a part in her reaching the
decision to proceed with the purchase. But I havent been persuaded from whats been said
that either Moneyway or its agents ought to have been aware that Ms B was vulnerable to
the extent that it acted unfairly and should not have lent to her.
I understand that Ms B considers that the car she was provided with had been overvalued
and was worth less than the amount she was lent. Although Moneyway has tried to
demonstrate that the car was priced fairly based on valuation guides used in the car
industry, I dont think this is something itd be appropriate for me to comment on in relation to
a complaint about the provision of finance. We can consider a complaint about the
affordability or misrepresentation of the lending as well as whether theres been a breach of
the agreement. There hasnt been any allegation that the price of the goods was
misrepresented to Ms B, rather, Ms Bs issue is about the cash price the supplying dealer
attached to the goods. Thats not something itd be appropriate for me to interfere with.
Ms B also said that Moneyway said she could reject the car on a number of occasions during
telephone calls. Moneyway says that it simply suggested that it would support that if the
supplying dealer accepted Ms Bs request to return the car. Having considered Moneyways
records of the conversations it had with Ms B, I dont think they support her assertion.
However, even if Moneyway had suggested that it was a possibility, I dont think it ought to
be bound by it, especially as it subsequently considered Ms Bs complaint in detail and
decided it ultimately would not allow for her to reject the car. Additionally, as Ive mentioned
above, even if the goods supplied had not been of satisfactory quality, under the CRA Ms B
was entitled to have Moneyway attempt to repair the goods, not reject them.
Lastly, Im aware that after bringing this complaint to this service Moneyway collected the car
from Ms B and ended the agreement in July 2019. Its my understanding that Moneyway
collected and sold the car and is now asking Ms B to repay a sum in relation to her hire
purchase agreement, although its said the collection of that sum is on hold. Its not clear
how much Moneyway has asked Ms B to pay  it could have calculated that sum using a
number of approaches, for example it could ask for;- the total amount repayable under the agreement minus the proceeds of the sale of
the car;
- the voluntary termination amount which Ms B wouldve needed to pay to end the
agreement without anything further to pay; or
- the amount Ms B wouldve needed to repay under the agreement as if she had sold
the car and repaid the lending, net of any interest rebate and sale of the car.
Id encourage Moneyway to bear the specific circumstances of the case in mind, particularly
that Ms B had very little use of the car over what seems to be just a few months, and bearing
in mind what shes said about her current circumstances and vulnerability in deciding what
sum it would be fair to require Ms B to pay. If Ms B considers that Moneyway isnt treating
her fairly in that respect, she may be entitled to make a further complaint about it.
Overall, for the reasons explained above, Im currently not satisfied that Moneyway treated
Ms B unfairly in another way outside of her complaint about the affordability of the lending
and the quality of the goods she was supplied.
Moneyway responded to say that it had nothing further to add, but it did explain that it had 
sold the car and deducted the funds it received from the outstanding balance of the account 
which stood at £14,003.72. It said it would refer the account to its specialist support team 
which would assess and discuss Ms Bs financial circumstances with a view to coming to a 
suitable repayment arrangement.
Ms B also responded. She said that she had made two payments towards the agreement but 
doesnt intend to make more, maintained that she was told she could return the car and the 
agreement would be ended, a point she didnt think had been considered. Ms B reiterated 
the impact circumstances had on her health and said that also hadnt been taken into 
account. Lastly, she said that she had been diagnosed with serious mental health issues and 
was not in the right frame of mind when taking out the agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dealing firstly with the issue of the outstanding sum Moneyway intends to seek from Ms B; 
its now clarified that sum (at the time of communicating) as £14,003.72. As my provisional 
decision covered, any questions over the fairness of the sum Moneyway is asking Ms B to 
pay should be subject to a further complaint should Ms B wish to raise that issue. Ill leave it 
to Ms B to consider whether she wants to raise that particular issue with Moneyway further in 
the first instance.
I accept the point Ms B made about having made two payments towards the agreement. I 
expect this comment was made in response to my statement about Moneyway collecting the 
car and ending the agreement because Ms B not had not made any payments towards it. I 
accept that wasnt accurate, I ought to have said that Ms B had not made many payments - 
nonetheless it seems Ms B had made two payments in the time that shed been expected to 
make around five or six, and had made it clear that she didnt intend to make more. So, I 
remain of the opinion that it was fair for Moneyway to collect the car and end the agreement, 
particularly as it would likely limit Ms Bs liability.
 
I understand Ms Bs frustration if she considers she was given the impression that it might be 
possible to hand the car back and unwind the agreement. Ive not been given evidence 
which suggests that is the case. However, as my provisional decision explained, even if Moneyway had suggested it was possible, it wouldnt be fair to hold it to that and it wasnt an 
outcome Ms B was entitled to under relevant legislation. 
Lastly, regarding Ms Bs point about the impact the case has had on her health, particularly 
her mental health, I can assure Ms B that Ive carefully considered everything shes said 
relating to this, in detail. As my provisional decision mentioned, Im very sorry to hear how 
the circumstances behind this case have affected Ms Bs health. And moving forward, Id 
expect Moneyway to take Ms Bs circumstances relating to her health into account in treating 
her fairly. 
Ive also given careful consideration to the point Ms B made about not being in the right 
frame of mind at the time of the lending. My provisional decision accepted that this could 
have played a part in her decision to accept the lending. But, significantly, based on what 
Ive been presented, Ive not been persuaded that either Moneyway or an agent were made 
aware, or ought to have been reasonably aware, of Ms Bs vulnerability to the extent that it 
acted unfairly or ought not to have lent to her.
In summary, whilst I sympathise with Ms Bs position and I appreciate this isnt the outcome 
shed hoped for, none of the further evidence or comments Ive been provided with in 
response to my provisional decision have caused me to reconsider my position on the case. 
As a result, I find no reason to depart from the conclusion I reached in my provisional 
decision, and I make those findings final.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman