DRN-3120071
The complaint
Mr O has complained about the price he was charged at renewal of his motor insurance 
policy by Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited.
What happened
Mr Os policy renewed with Watford in March 2020 at a premium of £346.11. In 
October 2020 he changed his car and Watford was notified. Mr O was charged a small 
premium increase and an admin fee. In February 2021 Mr O was sent renewal papers which 
showed his premium for the coming year would be £405.11. He recalled Watford telling him, 
when he first arranged cover with it several years before, that as long as his no claims bonus 
(NCB) increased, his premium would reduce each year. He noted that the policy book says; 
"when you renew your Policy, we may reduce the premium which you pay if you have 
earned another year of NCB entitlement". He said that, until this year, his premium had 
reduced and he was unhappy about the sudden and unexplained increase.
When Mr O complained to Watford it said it had priced his cover correctly. It said that if he 
didnt like the price, he was free to arrange cover elsewhere. Mr O wasnt happy and 
complained to us. He said he wanted Watford to at least amend the renewal price to equal 
that he paid the year before. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. He noted Mr O hadnt shown that Watford 
had previously promised him his premium would always reduce. And he didnt think the 
policy wording guaranteed that. He felt the premium had likely been priced correctly, with 
Mr O having been given clear and timely information to allow him to decide what to do. 
Mr O said our opinion was unfair and unreasonably reached. He was adamant, although our 
investigator explained why we could not, that we should share Watfords pricing information 
with him. He said that the policy wording had given him a reasonable expectation that his 
price would always come down as long as he kept his end of the bargain by not having any 
claims. And for Watford to renege on that whilst only giving him one month to find alternate, 
cheaper cover was unfair.
Mr Os complaint came to me for consideration. I didnt think Watford had shown that it had 
priced Mr Os renewal fairly, so I issued a provisional decision. I said:
I havent seen that Watford promised Mr O that if he kept increasing his years with no 
claims, it would ensure his premium would reduce year on year. I dont doubt Mr O believes 
that is what he was told  but his belief alone is not enough for me to assume Watford 
misled him. And I dont think the policy wording sets up that expectation either. It says the 
premium may reduce. So Watford is telling its policyholders that theres a possibility of a 
reduction, it isnt guaranteeing one. If Mr O read more into this wording than that, Im not 
persuaded that was due to any fault or failure of Watford. And one months notice of 
renewal, including what will be charged in the following year, is reasonable. 
However, I note that the information that Watford provided to us to show it had priced the 
renewal correctly was actually based on pricing detail available to Watford three months 
after the renewal date. I had our investigator ask Watford about this and it said that was all it 
had to show how Mr Os policy was priced  but it admitted this had been done by a different 
method to that used at renewal, which was why the price in the example Watford had sent 
us was more than Mr Os renewal price. Watford said it has no other evidence that it can 
show to evidence that it priced Mr Os renewal fairly. So Im not persuaded it did. That 
means I have to think about what a fair price would have been.
I note that Mr O initially paid £346.11 for his cover at renewal in 2020. But roughly half-way 
through the year Mr O changed his car, and this generated an increased premium charged 
by the insurer of £16.80 (the broker also charged Mr O a one-off fee for administering the 
change). This would have reflected the difference in the annual cost of it offering cover for 
that car, but pro-rated from the point cover for it began until renewal. So I think, if Mr O had 
been insuring the car from renewal in 2020 his annual cost for insurance that year would 
likely have been around £380  based on the £346.11 for the car he did have and that the 
cost for the new car would have been around an extra £30.00 for the whole year (where half 
the year was just over £15.00). And that also takes into account that the slightly increased 
premium would also have incurred an associated increase in the tax amount due against the 
premium for the year before and included within the £346.11 total premium amount.
Watford hasnt shown me that its pricing model changed in 2021 or that Mr O became more 
of a risk for any reason. Importantly Watford hasnt shown that all policyholders presenting 
the same risks as Mr O in 2021 would have been similarly charged in 2021 in line with the 
price generated for Mr O at renewal that year. So Ive no reason to think a fairly priced policy 
in 2021 should have cost Mr O any more than £380.00. Watford charged Mr O £405.11 (with 
his broker adding a fee to that of £20). So Im going to require Watford to refund Mr O 
£25.00 (£405.11 minus the £380.00), plus interest from the date he paid the annual premium 
until settlement is made.
I can see that this has been frustrating for Mr O. But he did have the option to change 
insurance at renewal if he was unhappy with the price charged. No insurer is bound to offer 
renewal each year, nor bound to keep the price the same or less than it was the year before 
And, as I said at the outset, I dont believe Watford ever misled Mr O into thinking that is 
what it would do for him. So, Im not going to require Watford to compensate Mr O for any 
distress and inconvenience he has suffered as a result of the small increase in price 
affecting the 2021 renewal.
Mr O said he was minded to accept my decision  but that he feels insurers should be 
prevented from using ambiguous and misleading phrases. And hed like insurers to be more 
transparent  explaining their charging policies to consumers. Mr O said hes worried that, 
on account of him having made this complaint hell be discriminated against at renewal, 
perhaps by not being offered a renewal or by being charged more. Hed like me to prevent 
Watford from doing this.
Watford said it disagreed with my findings. It said Mr O had been under no obligation to 
accept its renewal offer. It said it isnt persuaded that Mr O had sought cover elsewhere and 
found any more competitive prices. Which it thinks suggests he wasnt really concerned 
about cost. Watford said its entitled to set prices as it sees fit and it is not the role of the 
ombudsman to set pricing. And certainly not based on what the ombudsman thinks is fair. 
Which is what it feels has happened here.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service is not the regulator. We look at individual complaints and, where we uphold 
those complaints, we think about what is needed to put things right. We dont set out to 
change the way insurers do business, including what language they use and what data they 
choose to share with customers, or even how they share it. That is the job of the regulator. 
I understand Mr O is worried about what will happen at renewal but I cant tell Watford what 
it must do in the future. No insurer is bound to offer renewal terms year on year. And it is up 
to each insurer to decide what to charge for renewal  as long as it does that fairly this 
service wont interfere.
And fairness is the key in this complaint. I have not decided what price Watford must charge 
or said how it must determine premiums. But Mr O was entitled to make a complaint about 
what he had been charged  and there was no requirement for him to have shopped around 
first before doing so. Watford was given a chance to respond to Mr Os complaint and show 
that it had charged him fairly. But Watford was unable to satisfy me in this respect  as such 
I had to decide how to put things right. Which is what I did. I remain of the view that Watford 
paying Mr O £25.00, plus interest is a fair and reasonable outcome for this complaint.
Putting things right
I require Watford to reimburse Mr O £25.00, plus interest* from the date he paid the annual 
premium until settlement is made. 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Watford considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from any interest due to Mr O, it should tell them how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr O a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman