DRN-1541372
The complaint
Mr T is complaining about the amount Covea Insurance plc refunded of his annual premium 
when he cancelled his car insurance policy.
Mr T has been represented by his mother in this complaint. But for ease of reference, I shall 
refer to any submissions shes made as being made by Mr T.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr T took out a car insurance policy with Covea. The annual premium was 
around £3,100. He initially chose to pay the premium monthly through a finance agreement, 
but shortly, after the policy started, he paid the finance off so as to not incur interest charges. 
However, two weeks after the policy started Covea contacted Mr T to say it had found an 
undisclosed claim on his record and it said he owed an additional premium of £955.65. It 
asked him to arrange to pay this within seven days or it would cancel the insurance policy. 
Mr T called Covea and asked if he could pay the additional premium monthly. Covea initially 
said he could, but it later said that, as hed paid the policy in full up front, he couldnt do so. 
Mr T then asked Covea to cancel the policy, but he asked if it could extend the policy by a 
week to enable him to get a new policy. Covea agreed to do so. He asked what hed receive 
as a refund of the annual premium. Covea advised him it would refund £3,184.36 and it 
further confirmed this in an email. Mr T asked that it refund this before the policy ended so 
he could get another insurance policy and Covea agreed to do so.
Mr T called Covea a few days later to chase up the premium refund and was told it hadnt 
been processed. But it also explained it had told him the wrong premium refund amount and 
it said it would refund £2,866.34.
Mr T complained to Covea that it was refunding £318.12 less than it said it would. He was 
also unhappy with the delay in processing the refund. Covea agreed to extend the insurance 
policy by a further week at no cost. It agreed to waive the cancellation fee and offered £150 
in compensation. Mr T didnt accept Coveas offer. He said it should refund what it initially 
said it would and he thinks hes lost out by £318.12. He explained Coveas mistake had 
significantly impacted him owing to his disability.
Our investigator thought Coveas offer was fair. He acknowledged Covea had provided 
incorrect information, but he said the refund it actually provided was correct. He also said, in 
waiving the £55 cancellation fee, Mr T had effectively received £205 in compensation. He 
also acknowledged Covea had provided seven days of free insurance. So he didnt think it 
needed to do anything further.
Mr T didnt accept the investigators opinion. He maintained he was told hed get a refund of 
£3,184.36 and he thought that was what he should be given. He also reiterated this matter 
had significantly impacted him due to his disability. So he asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint as I think Coveas offer is fair. Ill now explain why.
Theres no dispute Mr T was given incorrect information. Due to an administrative error, 
Covea initially calculated the refund on the basis hed been paying interest on the premium, 
but he hadnt done so. And I can see it incorrectly confirmed this to Mr T on two further 
occasions. But that doesnt mean Covea needed to honour this.
This services role is to assess whether a business has done what it should have done. 
Where we dont think it has done so, we look to put the consumer back in the position theyd 
be in if the mistake didnt take place.
Theres no dispute Covea incorrectly initially told Mr T hed get a refund of £3,184.36. But I 
need to think what the situation would be if it hadnt told him this. Ultimately, Mr T was only 
entitled to a refund of £2,866.34 and thats what he would have received had Covea not 
given incorrect information. So it doesnt need to refund more than this. I note Mr T says 
Covea should pay him what it said it would, but this was more than he paid for the policy. So 
I dont think this is fair.
That said, Covea has caused Mr T some distress and inconvenience in giving incorrect 
information, which was heightened by his disability. But it did correct its mistake within a few 
days. It has also offered Mr T £150 in compensation, waived the cancellation fee of £55 and 
gave him seven days free insurance. In total this comes to around £250 in compensation 
(given Mr T was paying the equivalent of around £9 per day for insurance). And, while I do 
not dispute this was distressing for Mr T, this is in line with what I would have awarded. So I 
dont think it needs to pay anything further.
My final decision
Covea has offered to pay Mr T £150 and waive the cancellation fee of £55. I think this is fair 
in the circumstances of this complaint. It should pay this to him directly if it hasnt already 
done so. And I make no further award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman