DRN-4367427
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. Hes also unhappy about the way it carried out a review of 
his complaint.
What happened
Mr P took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the mortgage in 2001. The policy was 
set up to provide cover for unemployment only.
Mr P originally made a complaint about the policy being mis-sold in 2017 and Nationwide 
provided its final response letter on 16 February 2018, rejecting the complaint.
In 2022 Nationwide contacted Mr P to say it was reviewing its response to this complaint and 
another he had made about credit card PPI. It spoke to him over the phone and then issued 
a further final response letter on 27 October 2022, saying that its original decision stood.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P disagrees with the investigators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P says he had PPI with an earlier Nationwide mortgage, which he had also made a 
complaint about. So he wonders why Nationwide decided to review the complaint relating to 
the 2001 sale but not the earlier one.
Businesses will sometimes make a decision to re-look at certain tranches of cases based on 
various criteria. But it is not obliged to re-open complaints once it has sent out a final 
response. So Im unable to conclude that Nationwide should also have re-opened the 
complaint about an earlier mortgage PPI sale.
Nevertheless, this did cause some confusion. Because Mr P says that, during the phone call 
with Nationwide, he assumed he was taking about the first mortgage when it transpired later 
that it was talking about the later 2001 mortgage. So he says that when he was answering 
questions about his circumstances at the time of the sale, he was under the 
misapprehension that they were taking about an earlier period.
Nationwide should have been clearer about which PPI sale it was referring to. But Im not 
persuaded that the outcome would have been any different had it done so.
Mr P hasnt said what, if anything, was significantly different about his circumstances in 2001 
and the date of the earlier mortgage that might have caused Nationwide to reach a different 
conclusion. My understanding is that he was working for the same employer at the time of 
both mortgage applications, so his work benefits would have been broadly similar.
He says he was a young, inexperienced homebuyer who was given the hard sell by the 
mortgage adviser. I have no doubt that Mr P has provided his genuine recollection of events. 
But the sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if his memory has faded 
somewhat.
Ive seen the mortgage application form where Mr P has signed the PPI section to confirm 
that he has been provided with sufficient information to make a decision. Also, Mr P took out 
cover for unemployment only, rather than the more usual cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. So it appears that there must have been some discussion about the PPI and 
that Mr P decided to tailor the cover to suit his needs.
I take Mr Ps point that none of the paperwork would show whether Mr P had been 
pressured into taking the policy or not. But, from what we know of Nationwides sales 
process at the time, the PPI was normally presented as optional. And I havent seen 
anything that would lead me to conclude that something different happened in this case.
Based on the available evidence, I consider that Mr P most likely decided to buy the PPI, 
knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
This wasnt an advised sale, so Nationwide didnt need to ensure that the policy met his 
needs. But it did need to provide enough information for him to make an informed choice 
about buying the PPI.
Mr Ps employer provided a reasonable level of sick pay. But, as previously mentioned. the 
policy that Mr P bought didnt include accident and sickness cover.
Mr P says that his employers redundancy packages were extremely generous. But the 
policy would have covered his mortgage repayments for up to a year whilst he looked for 
another job and without the need to dip into his redundancy payment.
Mr P says he had savings at the time. But having the policy would have allowed him to 
maintain any savings or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a 
difficult time. I understand that his parents would have been supportive. But the PPI meant 
that he wouldnt have had to ask his parents to cover his monthly mortgage repayments.
Ive seen the mortgage offer letter that set out the cost of the policy. So, Im satisfied that he 
knew how much hed be paying for it before the mortgage became active.
A mortgage is a significant financial undertaking. So it wouldnt be surprising if Mr P had an 
interest in protecting his repayments. Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much 
information as it should have about the PPI, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. 
But he wasnt affected by any of those things, such as the exclusion for pre-existing medical 
conditions. As I think that Mr P had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused him to change his mind.
So hes no worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have done wrong, so theres 
nothing it needs to do to put things right. It follows that I do not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman