DRN-1984110
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C feel that Leeds Building Society has treated them unfairly with regard 
sending a letter for them to another customer and consequently not waiving an early 
repayment charge on their mortgage.
What happened
Leeds Building Society (LBS) sent a document intended for Mr C and Mrs C to another of its 
customers by mistake. This customer returned the document to LBS noting that a mistake 
had been apparently made. There is no persuasive evidence of this customer doing anything 
with the information they received or acting in anyway other than a concerned customer 
acting with integrity.
Afterwards LBS informed Mr C and Mrs C of what had happened and agreed to pay them 
£250 in distress and inconvenience. 
Mr C and Mrs C then decided to move their mortgage away from LBS due to what they say 
was concerns around their data. In so doing they incurred an early repayment charge. When 
they asked for the redemption statement Mr C and Mrs C said they expected the early 
repayment charge to be waived. But they proceeded with the remortgage without LBS 
agreeing to waive the early repayment charge.
Mr C and Mrs C then complained to LBS and said they wanted the early repayment charge 
refunded. LBS said it had appropriately compensated them for sending their letter to 
someone else. 
Our Investigator thought LBS position was fair. Mr C and Mrs C remain unhappy, so this 
complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should add at this juncture that Mr C and Mrs C have commented regarding the Law 
regarding personal data and whether they have been adhered to in his case. This Service 
defers to the Information Commissioners Office on such matters as that office is the 
decision maker on such matters. And that is where they should direct those specific issues if 
they are so minded. But this service does consider whether individuals such as Mr C and 
Mrs C have been treated fairly in relation to their data.
Having considered what has happened here I will not be upholding Mr C and Mrs Cs 
complaint. I shall explain why.
Firstly it should be remembered that Mr C and Mrs C were unaware of the erroneously sent 
letter until LBS told them. And this was after the customer concerned had returned the letter. 
There is no persuasive evidence of any loss or damages done as a consequence of this 
mistake in sending this letter. It should also be remembered that this was an isolated 
incident and not part of a pattern of such data breaches in relation to Mr C and Mrs C. LBS 
told them quickly, accepted responsibility and offered compensation. LBS has acted as it 
should in this regard.
Mr C and Mrs C then proceeded to move their mortgage and incurred an early repayment 
charge and exit fee. It is clear they were aware of this from the notes of the call they had with 
LBS at the time because they made clear they expected those fees and charges to be 
waived in light of the data breach.
However Ive seen no persuasive evidence that LBS ever agreed to waiving such fees or 
charges. Nevertheless Mr C and Mrs C proceeded to move their mortgage and paid those 
fees. Considering they didnt have any agreement from LBS regarding these fees and 
charges their decision to proceed with the mortgage move sits entirely with them.
So consequently I see no persuasive reason for LBS to refund such charges and fees. LBS 
properly dealt with the mis-sent letter. It never agreed to waive or refund these costs to Mr C 
and Mrs C and they chose to pay them without any agreement to be refunded. As a 
consequence I see no persuasive reason to uphold this complaint.
I am not persuaded by any of Mr C and Mrs Cs arguments on this matter. So in short this 
complaint does not succeed. I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mr C and Mrs C. 
But I dont think LBS has to do anything further.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Leeds Building Society. 
It has nothing more to do with regard to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman