DRN-2642677
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds decision to settle a third 
partys claim costs against his car insurance policy. 
What happened
In October 2018 Mr M crashed his car into a stone wall of a property and also damaged their 
fence which sat behind the wall. Ill refer to this as property B. Admiral said Mr M had 
breached the terms of his contract with it and so this meant Mr M was responsible for the 
claim costs. This isnt disputed by Mr M.
In February 2019 Mr M paid the insurer of B in full for their claim costs and provided proof to 
Admiral. 
In 2020 Admiral received a claim for damage to the neighbour of B, which Ill refer to as 
property C. This property adjoined B. Admiral dealt with the claim in line with its obligations 
under the Road Traffic Act. Admiral instructed a surveyor to visit property C and to establish 
if any of the damage being claimed for duplicated repairs Mr M had already paid for at 
property B.
In August 2020 the surveyor provided a report for Admiral. The surveyor said that the repairs 
had been completed when he visited property C. He was satisfied that the damage was 
consistent with the event that had occurred. He took photos of the repaired wall and fence 
for property C. Looking at the quote provided, the surveyor didnt think all of the costs being 
claimed for were reasonable and so he negotiated a reduced settlement with Cs insurer. 
Admiral settled Cs claim on a without prejudice basis. Admiral is looking to recover the 
claim costs from Mr M. 
Mr M was very unhappy about Admirals decision and he requested a copy of the surveyors 
report and the evidence relied on to reach their decision. On review, Mr M said the photos of 
the rear garden were taken from property B. Mr M said the damage being claimed for was 
for repairs hed already paid for.
Admiral didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint and so he asked us to look at things for him. 
Our investigator thought Admiral had shown that it had properly investigated the claim and 
reached its decision to settle property Cs claim reasonably. 
Mr M didnt agree. He says Admiral hasnt provided any photos or evidence to show he 
caused damage to property C. So Mr M wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The back garden to property B adjoins the garden of property C. Alongside both properties 
and their garden fences runs a stone wall parallel to the pavement of the road where Mr M 
lost control of his car. 
When Mr M collided into the stone wall and fence of property B, Admiral says he also 
damaged the stone wall and fencing to property C. 
Mr M says that because there is no evidence he damaged property C, and some of the 
photos provided by the surveyor are taken from property Bs garden, he believes he is being 
asked to pay twice for the same damage. 
However, the same contractor provided individual quotes to the owners of property B and C 
on 20 October 2018  shortly after the damage occurred. 
Ive looked at the quotes provided and they are similar, other than the quote for replacing the 
fencing to property C is slightly less due to its size being less than property B. 
The quote given to repair the wall and fencing to property B was for £4,296.40. The quote 
provided to repair damage to property Cs wall and fencing came to £4,177.61. 
Property Cs insurer provided a further quote from another contractor for repairs to property 
C. This quote came to a total of £5,304 including VAT and is dated 22 October 2018.
I understand Mr M says there is no evidence of damage he caused to property C. I agree 
with him. Photos provided by Mr M of the damage that occurred to property B at the time are 
helpful. But they dont extend to show where the damage to the stone wall (and associated 
fence behind the stone wall) ended. So they dont show me that the damage to property C 
didnt happen. 
Property Cs insurer has relied on the quote from the same contractor who provided a quote 
for property B on the same day when making their claim to Admiral. I think the fact that 
detailed quotes were obtained by the owner of property C at around the same time as the 
owner of property B  together with the photos provided of the stone wall after repair from 
the surveyor  are enough to show that repairs to the wall extended beyond property B to 
property C. With Admirals permission, we provided Mr M with a photo from property Cs 
insurer showing repairs to the stone wall extended from property Bs boundary line to 
property Cs. 
Mr M says the photos the surveyor took of the fencing (post repairs) are of the back garden 
at property B. 
Looking at photos from the other side of the road along with photos of a rear garden appear 
to show there is a large tree at the end of property Cs garden overlooking property Bs 
garden. On that basis, I agree with Mr M that the photos provided by the surveyor of a rear 
garden appear to have been taken from property B. There is an adjoining rear fence with the 
large tree on the other side of it. It may be that the adjoining fence is the responsibility of 
property C. But this isnt clear from the surveyors report and so I can understand why Mr M 
has raised his concerns.
However, the surveyor disputed the costs being claimed for in relation to the fence repairs 
for property C. He reported that most of the fencing had been reused and painted to match. 
He believed the costs to secure the area had been duplicated. For these reasons, the 
surveyor negotiated a reduced settlement on behalf of Admiral with property Cs insurer. 
Instead of agreeing to pay the costs of £4,177.61 being claimed for, Admiral paid a reduced 
settlement of £2,288.11. The quote provided for repairs to property C included fence repairs for £796.01 and security 
materials of £220 (excluding VAT). As the surveyor agreed to pay £1,889.50 less than the 
quote provided for repairs to property C, I dont think Admiral has paid for any duplication of 
fence repairs. 
I think Admiral has provided enough evidence to show it properly considered the claim from 
property Cs insurer. Although there werent photos of the damage to property C prior to 
repair, this doesnt mean Admiral should have rejected the claim. It was obliged to consider 
all of the information provided. Photos show recent repairs to the stone wall extending 
across property B and C. Quotes were provided by the same contractor on the same day to 
both neighbours. These quotes are similar, but have differences in the measurements and 
price which supports the case that there was damage to both properties. 
Admiral doesnt know why property Cs insurer made their claim over a year after the 
incident. But as it was within the time limits to make a claim, this isnt a reason for Admiral to 
reject it. 
Admiral settled the claim on a without prejudice basis. This means that Mr M isnt prevented 
from disputing the claim amount directly with property Cs insurer if he wishes. Mr M will 
need to seek legal advice about that. But in the meantime I think Admiral is entitled to seek 
the claim costs it made from Mr M.
I understand Mr M will be very disappointed with my decision. But I think Admiral properly 
investigated the claim and reached its decision to settle it in a reasonable way. This means I 
dont think the amount it is asking Mr M to pay to recover its costs for damage to property C 
is unreasonable for the stone wall repairs. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman