DRN-3382282
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) blocked her credit card.
What happened
Mrs W has a Nationwide credit card. On 23 October 2020, Nationwide placed a temporary 
block on her credit card, which was lifted on 7 November 2020. Mrs W spoke to Nationwide 
on 6 November 2020.
Mrs W complained. She said she couldnt understand why the block was put on her card. It 
had always been in her possession. She wanted to know why the block was put on and 
which transactions caused that to happen. And she said that when she spoke to Nationwide, 
she couldnt clearly hear the call handler and therefore she couldnt pass their security 
checks. She had to visit a branch of Nationwide to sort things out  and this meant she was 
put at risk of catching Covid-19, and she also had to pay for parking.
Nationwide said a temporary block was placed on Mrs Ws credit card due to their systems 
detecting some transactions which were suspected to be fraudulent. This was to protect the 
security of Mrs Ws account. Nationwide then called her to sort out the block. It was 
unfortunate that Mrs W couldnt clearly hear the call handler, nor answer the security 
questions - and so they had to ask her to visit a branch to remove the block. This she had 
done but left the branch before an explanation could be given to her.
Mrs W brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Nationwide acted reasonably. She 
said Nationwide could block a customers credit card in line with their security procedures, 
and they didnt have to divulge what those processes were. This was contained in their 
terms and conditions. It was unfortunate that Mrs W couldnt easily hear the call handler 
when she spoke to Nationwide, but she didnt answer the security questions correctly  and 
so the only thing left was for her to visit a branch.
Mrs W didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset  having seen Mrs Ws correspondence with us -  let me explain my role as a 
financial ombudsman. I am here to make a decision based on the circumstances of a 
complaint, based on the evidence I see from both Nationwide and Mrs W. We are an 
impartial and informal dispute resolution service. Im not here to take sides or punish 
Nationwide. So -thats how Ive looked at Mrs Ws complaint.
Its a fact that fraud among all banks is increasing, and all banks, including Nationwide, have 
sophisticated detection systems in place to prevent fraud. 
I can see that Mrs W was very frustrated by what happened. Her credit card was blocked by 
Nationwide  and then they called her out of the blue to ask her some questions. And she 
was surprised by that. But she couldnt then answer the security questions, and therefore 
Nationwide asked her to go to a branch to unblock the card  which is what happened.
Ive seen the transcripts of the calls between Nationwide and Mrs W and its clear she 
couldnt answer the security questions. But of course  Nationwide had to establish that they 
were talking to Mrs W, so they had to go through that process. But equally, I can see that 
Mrs W must have been frustrated. And that was added to the fact that her card had been 
blocked  in her eyes, for no good reason. Because Mrs W couldnt answer Nationwides 
security questions on the phone, they asked her to visit a branch. This was in line with their 
normal processes where they couldnt be sure they were talking to the right customer  so I 
cant say they were wrong to do that.
Ive looked at Nationwides credit card terms and conditions. Mrs W would have been given 
these when she applied for the credit card, and updated terms would have been sent to her 
since then. These say that they can block cards where theres a suspected fraud. These say: 
We may, acting reasonably, refuse to allow a transaction if:
we have identified an unusual pattern of transactions with the supplier you are trying to 
paywe suspect unauthorised, fraudulent or illegal use of your card or accountour 
security controls require you to produce additional identification, or prevent us carrying out 
the transaction before we can make the payment 
And  the terms and conditions also say that where this happens, they will contact 
customers using secure means (i.e. they will need to identify customers): If we need to 
contact you because of suspected fraud or because of security concerns, we will do this by a 
secure method of communication. As part of this we may have to ask you to provide parts of 
your security details or personal information so we can be sure we are talking to you but we 
will never ask you to disclose a password or other information in full.
And so  Nationwide had the right to block Mrs Ws credit card and contact her in the way 
they did.
Mrs W wants to know exactly which transactions caused her card to be blocked. We asked 
Nationwide this question, and they told us that they are not able to divulge their fraud checks 
 as they are commercially sensitive. We must accept that. But let me say that in my 
experience, the block may not have been due to one particular payment  it may have been 
Mrs Ws pattern of spending  which flagged up a concern in Nationwides fraud systems; or 
it may even have been a concern with the retailer or company that Mrs W was making a 
payment to  all bank fraud systems are based on complicated formulae which identify 
possible fraud. Mrs W says she kept her card with her all the time  and so it shouldnt have 
been blocked  but its not as simple as that  as Ive tried to describe here.
I can see from Mrs Ws correspondence with us that she feels wronged by what happened 
and so will be disappointed by my decision. But for all the reasons Ive set out, Im not going 
to ask Nationwide to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 Martin Lord
Ombudsman