DRN-2840031
The complaint
E, a limited company, complains Barclays Bank Plc unfairly closed its merchant services 
account.
What happened
Mr O is the director of E and brings this complaint on its behalf. In 2019 Mr O opened a 
merchant services account with Barclays for E to process card payments. A third-party 
company supplied the payment terminal via a hire agreement.
Mr O put through a large payment via the terminal, which was flagged on Barclays systems. 
He said the payment was related to a software package E was selling. He said he tried to 
put through the payment the previous day, but there were problems with the terminal and 
Barclays confirmed there was a system issue over the phone to him.
Barclays blocked Es account and asked Mr O questions about the payment and several 
other payments. It says the payment was forced through using an authorisation code 
entered into the payment terminal. The card issuer didnt recognise the authorisation code 
and Barclays had not given Mr O the code either. It concluded there was a breach of terms 
of the account and terminated its relationship with E. It sent the money back to the card 
issuer after it received an indemnity.
Mr O complained on Es behalf about Barclays decision. He said the payment was genuine 
and the terminal generated a code when first tried to make the payment. He used the same 
code the next day to put through the payment. He acknowledged he first told Barclays 
incorrect information. He said his customer gave him the code, but at the time he thought the 
code was the customers long card number, so there had been a genuine misunderstanding.
Barclays rejected the complaint, so Mr O brought it to our service. An investigator decided 
not to uphold the complaint. They issued two views on the matter, and in summary, they 
found:
Barclays records show the payment was forced through using a code that wasnt 
issued through the terminal or given to Mr O by Barclays over the phone. Forcing 
through a payment breached his agreement with Barclays.
No record existed of Mr O ringing Barclays to obtain an authorisation code. Neither 
was there a record of system issues the day of the payment or the day before. But 
even if there were issues, the terminal didnt generate the code itself. Instead a code 
is only generated by Barclays requesting one from the card provider. No request was 
made.
Barclays acted reasonably by blocking and closing the account based on the 
information it had. It was also reasonable to return the payment funds to the card 
issuer. There is confusion about what was communicated to Barclays about the two 
different types of business E undertakes. But this wasnt relevant to the outcome. 
Barclays based its decision on the payment being forced through. 
Mr O is unhappy with the outcome the investigator reached. He asked for a final decision 
from an ombudsman, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays records show the payment was forced through. They show it didnt give    
Mr O an authorisation code and one wasnt generated via the payment terminal. 
Instead, I find Mr O was likely given the code or he came to possess it through other 
means.
 
Mr O says he wouldnt know where he could get the authorisation code from. But I 
have placed weight on him originally saying he got the code from his customer. I 
dont find his explanation that he thought the code was originally the customers long 
card number persuasive. And I note it took some time for him to give a different 
version of events.
Forcing through a payment is a breach of Barclays terms. So, I find Barclays acted 
reasonably by terminating its agreement with E. And Im satisfied it was reasonable 
to return the payment to the card issuer, given an invalid authorisation code was 
used. E may now be experiencing difficulties, which Im sorry to hear about, but I 
dont find Barclays are liable for them or that it acted unfairly.
Barclays do not hold a record of Mr O ringing them the day before the payment was 
put through, which I expect would exist if the conversation had taken place  after all 
it has a record of him calling a few days later. It searched its records using both       
Mr Os number and the payment terminal providers number, but no record existed. 
The payment terminal provider also has no record of a conversation with Mr O the 
day before or the day of the payment. Instead, it spoke to Mr O the day after the 
payment.
Mr O asked what Barclays records show regarding the much smaller payment made 
the day of the payment. He says this was a test payment to check the terminal was 
working. And if hed forced through the larger payment, he would have also forced 
through the smaller payment. But I dont agree this has to be the case, so Im not 
persuaded by what he has said.
Mr O says he must have been given the right authorisation code via the terminal, 
otherwise the payment would not have gone through. But its evident this isnt so  
the payment was forced through using a code which was not genuine. Barclays 
systems recorded it as forced and I find the records reliable. And the card issuer also 
reported it as not authorised.
Mr O may not have intended to do something wrong. But that doesnt mean Barclays 
wasnt right to be concerned, or that under the terms of its agreement with E, it was 
unfair to terminate its relationship.For the reasons I have given, I am not going to direct Barclays to reopen the account or pay 
E compensation.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O, on behalf of 
E to accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman