DRN-2582342
The complaint
Mr M and Miss M complain that they received unsuitable advice from Clydesdale Bank Plc 
when enquiring about a product switch after their fixed rate deal ended.
 
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties. Rather 
than repeat what is already known to them, in my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the 
reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
Mr M and Miss M complain that they were given unsuitable advice after their existing two-
year discounted rate deal ended in September 2016. They say, as a result, theyve incurred 
a considerable cost, having paid interest at Clydesdales standard variable rate (SVR) for 
nearly three years. 
In late 2019, Mr M and Miss M raised their concerns with Clydesdale. The complaint wasnt 
upheld. Clydesdale said that is followed its process by not recommending a product with an 
early repayment charge (ERC) in 2017 as Mr M and Miss M were in the process of selling 
their home. 
Clydesdale recognised that whilst, in some cases, the saving made by switching interest 
rates might outweigh the ERC, in this case it was unable to ascertain any potential long-term 
saving, as Mr M and Miss Ms property was already on the market so could be sold at any 
time. 
Clydesdale also added that Mr M and Miss M were offered the option of taking the non-
advised route to make their own choice regarding the product switch. Albeit, part of Mr M 
and Miss Ms complaint is that they werent told how they could do this. They say they were 
later made aware of the online facility in 2019 and switched to a more competitive rate. 
Unhappy with Clydesdales response, Mr M and Miss M brought their complaint to our 
service. An investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint, as he thought 
that Clydesdale had acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances.
Mr M and Miss M didnt agree and asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision. In summary they said:
- Its unlikely theyd incur an ERC as porting facilities were widely available on 
Clydesdale products and it was more than likely theyd satisfy the requirements for a 
new mortgage; and
- Had they been alerted to the online product switch facility in 2016, they would have 
taken matters into their own hands and switched to a cheaper rate. When they were 
made aware of this option in 2019, they did use the facility to secure a more 
competitive rate.
Our investigator considered Mr M and Miss Ms response but explained why his opinion 
remained the same. Because an agreement hasnt been reached, the case has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to Mr M and Miss Ms discounted rate ending in September 2016, their intention was to 
move homes. Their property had already been on the market for around 18 months.
Based on what the mortgage advisor knew about Mr M and Miss Ms circumstances, he said 
he could not advise they tie themselves into another fixed term discounted rate. This was 
due to the possibility of an imminent move. Any porting facility would be subject to 
application and not guaranteed and so there was a risk of Mr M and Miss M incurring a large 
ERC.  
Ive considered all the reasons why Mr M and Miss M feel theyve lost out financially as a 
result of the information provided by Clydesdales mortgage advisor. I do not discount that 
Mr M and Miss M have raised some valid and logical points about why an ERC may not 
have been applicable in their circumstances. But when considering everything he knew 
about Mr M and Miss Ms circumstances at the time, I dont think it was unreasonable for the 
mortgage advisor to not recommend a fixed term product with an ERC. Ill explain why.
Mr M and Miss Ms property was already on the market and had been some time  so it 
could sell at any time. Porting their mortgage to a new property was subject to application 
and not guaranteed. 
I appreciate in mid-2016, Mr M and Miss M had been approved in principle for increased 
lending on a new property they were intending to buy. Clydesdale approved the application 
as an exception outside its normal policies. It was unclear at this stage if and when Mr M and 
Miss M would sell their existing property and be able to progress with the new 
purchase/mortgage.  
An official mortgage offer is only issued following valuation and underwriting. Mr M and Miss 
Ms application hadnt reached that stage. Nevertheless, due to the time that had passed 
theyd likely need to start the process again. Lenders can change their lending criteria at any 
time and the circumstances of any future application could change. So, I dont think the 
mortgage advisor could safely say that porting was certainly guaranteed. 
Whilst the mortgage advisor wasnt willing to advise on a product with an ERC, he did 
present Mr M and Miss M the option of proceeding on a rejected advice basis and explained 
how the application for securing a new fixed rate would work. Id also like to point out that 
Clydesdale has provided our service with the rates available to Mr M and Miss M at the time 
and only the SVR came with no ERC. 
Mr M and Miss M say that no analysis was carried out to weigh up the cost of a possible 
ERC against the saving of switching to a lower rate. I accept it would be difficult for 
Clydesdale to establish any potential long-term saving, as Mr M and Miss Ms property was 
already on the market so could be sold at any time. So, I dont think it was required to 
voluntarily offer this information. 
I think Mr M and Miss M could have easily asked the mortgage advisor to provide some 
projections and, in those circumstances, it might have been reasonable for him to provide some rough calculations. But Mr M and Miss M didnt make further contact with the 
mortgage advisor to discuss next steps following his initial response to their enquiry. So, in 
the circumstances, I cant reasonably hold Clydesdale responsible for not doing any more. 
Mr M and Miss M say that if the online process had been explained, they would have opted 
for a new rate switch themselves. Clydesdale did make Mr M and Miss M aware (though 
ongoing conversations and general mailings) that new deals were available. Ive seen a 
sample of the reminder letters that would have been sent to Mr M and Miss M in the lead up 
to their rate expiry. In these letters the different ways to switch products are clearly outlined - 
including the online switch facility, via phone or in branch. So, Im satisfied Mr M and Miss M 
were made aware they could use the online facility to execute a non-advised rate switch. 
Mr M and Miss M subsequently took their house off the market and still currently live there. 
In 2019 they used the online facility to switch to a new discounted rate product, making a 
saving on their mortgage payments. They say if theyd known how, they wouldve switched 
rates sooner. As previously explained, I think Clydesdale made Mr M and Miss M aware of 
the different ways to switch rates. 
Its clear that in the following years, Mr M and Miss Ms circumstances changed and in 
hindsight switching rates in 2017 would have saved them money over the years. For the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think Clydesdales advice in 2017 was unreasonable. Mr M 
and Miss M were free to make their own choice to switch rates at the time and/or revisit their 
options again, as and when things changed. I cant hold Clydesdale responsible for their 
choice not to do so sooner. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman