DRN-4052040
The complaint
Mr V complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc have declined his claim for 
emergency repairs following a leak in his bathroom and provided poor customer service.   
      
What happened
Mr V holds a BoilerCare Total Insurance policy with D&G. A third-party provider dealt with 
the claim for repair under the policy on behalf of D&G, but I shall refer to D&G throughout as 
they are the underwriters of the policy.   
In November 2022 Mr V had a leak in his bathroom. 
He reported it to D&G and they sent a plumbing contractor, who identified that the leak was 
because of a crack in the slate shower tray. Mr V says the contractor told him that he was 
covered for repairs up to £500 and he would need to arrange the repair himself. Mr V was 
unhappy with this because he thought his policy covered him up to £1000 and so Mr V 
complained to D&G. 
D&G then declined to pay for any repairs as they said shower trays arent covered under the 
policy. However, they gave Mr V £25 as a gesture of goodwill for the incorrect information he 
was given regarding being able to make a claim. 
Mr V was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Vs complaint. D&G told her that the contractor 
had offered to perform a temporary repair with a replacement plastic shower tray which Mr V 
had declined. She thought that the offer of the replacement tray and £25 was fair. However, 
Mr V said that he had never been offered the replacement plastic shower tray and if had 
been offered this, he would have taken it. 
Our investigator then revised her view, as there had been poor communication about the 
offer of the shower tray, and she recommended that the payment for distress and 
inconvenience was increased to £100.  
Mr V still disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to uphold Mr Vs complaint, and I will explain why below. 
I have to decide whether D&G have applied the terms and conditions appropriately and 
acted fairly and reasonably when declining the claim.  
Mr Vs policy covers him for boiler and heating repairs, and up to £1000 for temporary  
repairs relating to plumbing and drainage, electrical wiring and other home emergency 
issues. 
The policy term regarding leak repairs says:
We will cover problems or failures in your plumbing and drainage system, including leaking 
pipes, blocked drains, non-flushing toilets and noisy pipes. For each claim the most we will 
pay is £1,000. This is the claim limit.
What we will do
We will arrange for an approved contractor to assess the situation and:
 carry out a temporary repair to your home; or
 carry out a permanent repair if this costs the same as or less than a
temporary repair.
The engineer will resolve the immediate problem by:
 repairing leaking pipes and overflows;
 clearing internal blocked drains and ensuring they are running clear;
 restoring toilet facilities;
 investigating the causes of noisy pipes and quietening these where they can
be accessed.
It also says 
Your plumbing and drainage system excludes:
Your sinks, baths, shower units, ceramic toilet cisterns or toilet pans
So, Im satisfied that the policy is clear that repairs to shower units arent covered unless it 
relates to the pipework. What should have happened here is that when the contractor  
identified that the leak was due to a crack in the shower tray, he should have advised Mr V 
that it wasnt covered under the policy. However, he didnt. 
What happened next is unclear. Mr V says he was told that he could engage a private 
contractor and claim for up to £500 for the repairs. D&G say that Mr V was offered a plastic 
shower tray as a gesture of goodwill, and he refused it but Mr V says that a plastic shower 
tray was never offered to him or he would have accepted it, but he was led to believe he had 
some cover and so he spent £1400 having the tray replaced. 
As shower units are excluded in the policy, Im satisfied there was no obligation on D&G to 
offer any repair or replacement of the shower tray at all. However, I do agree that the 
customer service provided was poor, with incorrect information being given about what he 
could claim, and a failure to communicate the goodwill offer of a plastic shower tray. In 
addition, Mr V has advised that he made a number of calls to D&G and nothing was clarified 
to him. In view of that I agree with the investigator that the offer of compensation for distress 
and inconvenience should be increased to £100. 
I appreciate that Mr V has spent considerably more than that on having the repair done, but I 
dont consider that D&Gs actions have impacted this, as he would always have been 
responsible for the cost of a replacement shower tray given that the policy excluded it.  Mr V says that he made decisions about the cost of the repair he had done thinking he would 
be able to claim at least £500, but it was made clear to him in the call on 23 November that 
there was no cover for the shower tray and so Im satisfied that he was put on notice on 23 
November that the costs wouldnt be met. 
Putting things right
D&G should pay Mr V £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by poor customer 
service. 
My final decision
My decision is Im upholding this complaint and directing Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
to put things right as above.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman