DRN-3106701
The complaint
Miss F complains that Santander UK Plc prevented her from transacting on her account.
What happened
Miss F holds a basic current account with Santander, which provides her with two cards to 
manage her account  a Top-Up debit card and a cash card for withdrawals.
In early February 2021 Miss F said she tried to use her Top-Up debit card to rent a car to 
travel to an appointment. However, she said her card was declined. Miss F wasnt happy 
about this and complained. She felt shed Santander had unfairly prevented her from using 
her account, and provided her with an unsuitable banking product, as she had had funds in 
her account to cover the transaction she wanted to make.
Santander investigated Miss Fs concerns but didnt uphold her complaint as it didnt think it 
had made an error. It said the Top-Up debit card didnt permit car hire transactions, which 
was outlined in the terms and conditions provided to Miss F when she opened her account. 
So, it thought she ought to have been aware of the restrictions on her Top-Up debit card.
Miss F stated that she was unaware of the restrictions applicable to her top-up debit card 
and disagreed with how Santander had resolved her complaint. So, she referred it to our 
service. But, after our investigator assessed the evidence provided, they werent persuaded 
Santander had made an error or acted unfairly. They thought Santander had declined the 
transaction in line with the account terms and conditions and didnt recommend upholding 
this complaint. But Miss F disagreed with our investigators view and asked for her complaint 
to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess whether I think Santander made a mistake, or treated Miss F unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right. Ive read and considered all the information 
provided by Miss F and Santander, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I think is relevant 
to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
take it on board and think about it. Its because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach what I think is the right outcome. Where the information Ive got is incomplete, 
unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I must base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. 
I sympathise with Miss Fs situation. But Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. I understand that Miss F will be disappointed with 
my conclusions, so Ill explain why I dont uphold this complaint.
The account Miss F holds with Santander is a basic current account as I outlined in the 
background to this complaint. Santander has provided our service with evidence to show 
that this account was opened in branch on 10 August 2016.
Santander says Miss F couldnt have opened her account without agreeing to the account 
terms, which would have been provided to her as part of the application process. This isnt 
unusual and I accept what Santander has said about this. 
Ive carefully considered what the terms and key facts document says about any account 
restrictions so I can decide whether Santander provided adequate information to Miss F 
about the limitations of the Top-Up card and whether her car hire transaction was declined in 
accordance with the account terms and conditions.
The car hire restriction that Miss F complains about here is outlined in the account terms and 
conditions and in both historic and current key facts documents, which summarise the 
features of the account. They state:
To stop your account from going into an Unarranged Overdraft, some transactions are not 
allowed. You wont be able to use your Top-Up card for the following:
Recurring and instalment transactions
Automated/pay at pump petrol stations
Car hire.
Parking or vending machines
Im satisfied that the car hire restriction is longstanding. I say this because it appears in 
documentation from 2015. Im also persuade that the information Santander provided to 
Miss F about the Top-Up card restrictions was clear and explained in plain, intelligible 
language. I can see that the restrictions are also set out prominently on Santanders website 
on the page that applies to the basic current account. Overall, I think Miss F ought to have 
been aware of the restrictions that applied here.
Its accepted that Miss F attempted to use her Top-Up debit card to hire a vehicle. Ive seen 
evidence showing that she had sufficient funds in her account to cover the transaction she 
wanted to make. So, I can appreciate how frustrated she must have been when her card 
was declined. 
I can see that Miss F complained that Santander acted fraudulently, and in error, in 
preventing her from using her card in the way she wanted. But I dont agree. She hasnt 
suffered any financial loss and, as Ive already explained, car hire transactions are prevented 
by the account terms and conditions. So, I cant fairly conclude that Santander made an 
error in not allowing the card to be used for the reason Miss F wanted.
Miss F also appears to believe that she has been discriminated against due to ill-health. 
However, as any account holder wouldnt have been able to use the Top-Up card for car hire 
in line with the account terms and conditions, Im satisfied that this isnt a case of Santander 
discriminating against Miss F as an individual member. And I havent seen any evidence 
from Miss F to show that she has been subject to discrimination in any other way.
I appreciate the reasons why Miss F brought this complaint to our service. But I think 
Santander has acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances of this complaint. So, Im 
not going to ask it to do anymore.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman