DRN-1562188
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc has refused to pay part of their 
contents claim following a burglary.
What happened
In October 2018 Mr and Mrs G were the victims of a burglary at their home. The incident was 
reported to the police who attended the scene and an insurance claim was submitted for 
damage that occurred during the theft and for some stolen items. Part of the claim was for a 
safe which was taken. Mr and Mrs G reported that it contained jewellery, cash amounting to 
several thousand pounds and documents such as passports and other certificates. 
Nearly two months after the burglary, the police found a locked safe which matched the 
description of the one stolen from Mr and Mrs G. After completing relevant checks, it was 
confirmed as being their safe and so Mr G, along with a couple of family members, collected 
it from the police station and took it home. Mr G opened the safe and reported to both the 
police and AXA that some items were missing.
AXA considered the claim and agreed to pay for the damages to Mr and Mrs Gs home and 
contents but didnt agree to pay for the safe and its contents. It said that there were 
inconsistencies in the information it had been given about the items that had been stolen and 
the evidence surrounding the alleged opening of the safe by the thieves. AXA said that there 
was insufficient evidence and information to support this part of the claim.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr and Mrs G made a complaint. One of our investigators 
looked into the matter. She found that the information Mr and Mrs G had given to the police 
about the missing items after opening the safe was different to what had been told to AXA. 
And in relation to the safe, she said that as both the police officer involved and an 
independent expert had said it was unlikely it had been opened and locked back up again, 
she found it fair for AXA to refuse this part of the claim as it didnt have sufficient evidence.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the opinion of our investigator, so the matter has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And where evidence is inconclusive or incomplete, I have reached my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  this means I have determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
When making an insurance claim, it is for the claimant to prove that an insured event has 
occurred. And it is reasonable for an insurer to request information about the circumstances 
of the loss before it agrees to settle the claim. 
AXA has agreed to settle some of the items claimed (mainly those damaged in the burglary) 
but it raised two main concerns over the theft of the safe and contents  
The inconsistent information provided by Mr and Mrs G regarding the items that were 
being claimed; and
Insufficient evidence supplied to support Mr and Mrs Gs belief that access had been 
gained into the safe by the thieves.
AXA says it first became aware that the safe had been located after it had been brought 
home and opened  this was in a voicemail left by Mr G around 5pm on the evening he 
collected it. Due to it being a weekend, AXA didnt return the call until a few days later and 
their notes show Mr G told them about the documents that had been left in the safe. But 
when AXA received the police report the notes said Mr G had contacted the police in the 
afternoon on that same day  before his call to AXA - and had advised that the safe still 
contained some silver jewellery, passports and documents. 
Mr G provided photos to AXA which were taken on the day he recovered the safe. These 
photos show the safe before he opened it, after he had gained entry and pictures of the 
items within the safe. Within these photos are pictures of the silver jewellery. The pictures 
were all taken prior to 5pm.
AXA says Mr G failed to tell it about the silver jewellery that had been found and that it was 
only because it received the police report that it became aware of the inconsistencies in the 
information it had been provided. Mr G has said he only became aware of the silver jewellery 
when he had fully emptied the safe and found a box. But Ive looked at the timings of the 
notes on the police report and the calls to the police were before Mr G called AXA. And as 
these notes show he was already aware of the jewellery at this point it isnt clear why he 
didnt disclose the recovery of the jewellery to AXA in either the voicemail he left or in the 
conversation a few days later. 
Mr and Mrs G have made the point that this was a very difficult time for them and they were 
shocked by the fact that their gold jewellery had been stolen. They think this may have 
caused them not to think rationally. Ive thought about this very carefully and I appreciate this 
would have been an upsetting situation for them. But Im not persuaded that this is enough 
for me to say that AXA has acted unfairly in not agreeing to pay this part of their claim. AXA 
has shown that Mr G was aware of the items within the safe prior to contacting its offices and 
in two calls he failed to advise of the remaining contents. Even if Mr G had forgotten to 
mention the jewellery in the voicemail, I would have expected him to have provided this 
information in the call he had a few days later. So, Im satisfied AXAs actions here are 
reasonable.
In relation to the safe itself, the police report describes the state of the item when it was 
found and says that it looks like attempts had been made to gain entry, but it appeared these 
were unsuccessful. From the photos taken by the police I can see the safe had suffered 
several large dents and the main handle and lock panel appear to be missing. When Mr G 
contacted the police to tell them what was missing from the safe, the notes show the police 
officer was surprised that items were missing as he didnt believe entry had been gained by 
the thieves. 
When AXA questioned Mr G about this, he supplied social media videos to show how this 
type of safe could be opened using magnets. AXA asked an independent expert to review 
the pictures of the unopened safe, along with the videos Mr G had provided. This expert said that whilst these videos showed it was possible to get into the safe - so he couldnt rule out 
that this is what could have happened - he thought it was unlikely. 
In considering whether I think AXA has fairly declined this aspect of the claim I need to think 
about the evidence provided by both parties. To support his view, Mr G has provided the 
previously mentioned videos. But AXA has been able to provide evidence from two 
independent parties who are of the opinion that the safe was unlikely to have been opened 
prior to its recovery. And on balance, I find myself more persuaded by the opinions of the 
two independent parties in this matter, one of which is an independent expert. So, Im 
satisfied that it is reasonable for AXA to refuse to pay the claim based on the current 
evidence available.
AXA has said that it is prepared to consider any further information Mr and Mrs G want to 
provide in support of their claim and I think that is the right thing to do. But based on what I 
have seen and been told, I dont think that AXA has acted unfairly by not agreeing to pay the 
claim for the safe and contents at this point.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, and whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to 
Mr and Mrs G, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman