DRN-4301465
The complaint
Mr F complains about how Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money dealt with his 
account following a security block.
What happened
Mr F says he tried to use his account card in March 2023 for a gambling transaction, but the 
transaction was declined. He says he contacted Virgin Money and says he didnt receive a 
text message about the transaction. Mr F says he tried to use the account card, but it was 
retained by the cash machine and then he received the text. He says this same problem has 
happened on four other occasions and he was left with no access to his money. Mr F says 
he spoke to a number of different Virgin Money departments about this issue and would like 
compensation for what took place.
Virgin Money says it correctly applied the account block when its systems raised security 
concerns. It says its systems sent Mr F a text message within a minute of the block being 
applied. Virgin Money now says the card being retained was caused by Mr F using a 
particular cash machine which automatically retains a bank card in these circumstances, but 
most cash machines do not retain a card. It has apologised for the call wait times and paid 
£75 compensation.
Mr F brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Virgin Money was entitled to block the account when it had security 
concerns and thought Virgin Money wasnt responsible for the actions of the cash machine. 
The investigator thought the compensation appropriate.
Mr F doesnt accept that view and questions why the investigator didnt comment on the 
previous incidents. He says its obvious a cash machine will retain a card in these 
circumstances.
I asked Virgin Money for further information which its provided, including all of the call 
recordings between it and Mr F. It has also confirmed that the account block is likely to have 
led to the cash machine retaining Mr Fs account card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done I dont require Virgin Money to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr F will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how 
strongly he feels about what took place.
I know Mr F accepts that banks and building societies must have fraud and security 
measures to protect its and its customers money. Fraud is a major problem, and a business 
must monitor transactions as here. I accept that on occasions legitimate customers and 
legitimate transactions are made subject to such security measures. I appreciate that causes 
inevitable frustration and inconvenience but that doesnt mean that a business has made a 
mistake.
In March 2023 Virgin Money blocked Mr Fs attempted gambling transaction. I make clear 
this is Mr Fs money and he is free to spend it as he wishes. But equally I dont think Virgin 
Money made a mistake by applying a block to the transaction as its security systems flagged 
the transaction. I can see Virgin Money says it sent a text message immediately to Mr F, but 
he didnt receive it until after he called it. That is not something I can fairly hold Virgin Money 
responsible for as its not responsible for the delivery of telephone text messages.
I have listened to all of the calls between Mr F and Virgin Money. Having done so I 
appreciate Mr F spent a considerable amount of time on those calls and was passed through 
many departments. I understand his frustration in having to go through security and repeat 
his complaint details. I can see that Virgin Money has fairly apologised for the way in which 
parts of the complaint related to the calls was dealt with and has either paid or offered £75 
compensation. I am satisfied that amount is fair and reasonable and fairly considers that Mr 
F didnt suffer any financial loss as a result of what took place on those calls. If the 
compensation hasnt been paid then no doubt Mr F can ask Virgin Money to pay it. I dont 
intend directing Virgin Money pay the compensation as I can see Mr F has complained about 
the offer being made without him being able to reject it.
The key part of the complaint is that Mr Fs account card was retained by the cash machine. 
I appreciate Mr F was unable to speak to Virgin Money when he used the card, but Im 
satisfied it was his decision to do so before the security block was removed. I think it clear 
that the particular cash machine Mr F used automatically retained an account card where it 
detected a security or account block. That was something outside Virgin Moneys control and 
not something I can fairly hold it responsible for, but I would have expected it to have known 
that information. I also think that it reasonable for Mr F to have known that where there was 
a transaction that had been blocked as here, that to attempt to use the account card in a 
cash machine may result in it being retained.
Overall, I accept this was Mr Fs money, but that Virgin Money has a duty to ensure he was 
not a fraud victim. I accept that this was not the first time Mr Fs account card had been 
retained and account blocked. But I can also see that Virgin Money has fairly suggested 
alternative methods of paying for gambling transactions which may avoid this situation. I 
cant fairly consider the compensation awards in previous complaints as those matters have 
been dealt with and Mr Fs complaint to us is about the events of March 2023. I also 
appreciate that Mr F says there has been a more recent similar issue. I am satisfied that 
Virgin Money has made clear this problem may keep occurring, that certain transactions will 
be blocked and that a text may not immediately be sent. I dont think Virgin Money has made 
a mistake or acted unfairly in those circumstances and Mr F ought reasonably to be aware 
now that this issue is likely to repeat itself. I find this now brings an end to what we in trying 
to resolve this dispute informally can do and cant fairly conclude Virgin Money should pay 
further compensation or that it made a mistake in either March 2023 or later on in around 
June 2023.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
David SinghOmbudsman