DRN-1993515
The complaint
Mrs M says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in April 2008. The policy was 
added to Mrs Ms credit card account when she phoned Capital One to activate her credit 
card which shed received through the post.
Mrs M told us she was unhappy because she had been charged for a product that she never 
asked for and did not need. She said that whilst she noticed charges on her monthly 
statement, she simply assumed that it was a form of interest and a mandatory element, as it 
was never explained to her properly.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide how it should be settled.
In response to our adjudicators assessment Mrs M mainly said that she knew PPI offered 
protection but didnt realise the payments incurred interest and increased the balance on her 
credit card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
I think Capital One made Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it. I say this because Capital One had already sent her the credit card shed applied for, even 
though she hadnt asked for PPI. So, I think Mrs M wouldve known it was open to her not to 
take out PPI if she didnt want to have it. 
Theres no call recording. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mrs M to remember 
everything that was discussed as this was a long time ago. But, based on what this service 
knows about the way Capital One sold PPI, I think its likely that during the phone call Mrs M 
decided that she wanted to have the benefits that PPI offered her. 
And I think it was added to her account when she requested this. I say this because, from 
then on, shed have been able to see from her monthly credit card statements that she was 
paying for PPI. So if it hadnt been something she wanted she couldve taken this up with 
Capital One  Ive seen nothing to suggest that happened. 
Capital One says it didnt recommend the policy to Mrs M  and based on what we know 
about how Capital One sold PPI this way, I think thats probably right. But even if Mrs M feels 
PPI mightve been recommended to her, I dont think a recommendation to have PPI 
wouldve been unsuitable  so this doesn't affect the outcome of her complaint. 
But Ive looked carefully at whether Capital One gave Mrs M enough information to make a 
proper decision about whether PPI was right for her  and if it didn't do this, Ive thought 
about whether that makes any overall difference to what happened.
Mrs M was eligible for the policy. The policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per 
accident and sickness claim. 
PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mrs M lost her job and 
became unexpectedly unemployed.
Mrs M told us that she couldve only relied on getting statutory sick pay and she had no 
significant other means to rely on. 
Looked at overall, I think Mrs M couldve benefitted from the PPI. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs M chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover and the policy 
was apparently affordable for her. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her 
buying it.
This means Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
Capital One (Europe) plc got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because Capital 
One (Europe) plc didnt tell Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One (Europe) plc has paid back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in 
this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 Susan Webb
Ombudsman