DRN-4187714
The complaint
Ms C complains about Aviva Insurance Limited declining her buildings insurance claim for 
water ingress.
Aviva are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their appointed agents. Aviva have accepted they are accountable for the actions 
of their agents here, so for the purposes of my decision, any reference to Aviva should be 
interpreted as including the actions of their agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Ms C and Aviva. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Ms C had a buildings insurance policy with Aviva for a number of years. Ms C has said that 
the damage to her property (water ingress) occurred as a result of a named storm in 
February 2022 which impacted her neighbours property.
Ms C has told us Environmental Health concluded that her property was unfit for human 
habitation and served notice on the neighbouring property to repair the balcony area from 
which water was entering Ms Cs property. 
Ms C notified Aviva that she wanted to make a claim against the policy as water was 
entering her property. Aviva declined the claim as they said the damage had been occurring 
over a period of time and it was happening because of issues with the neighbours property. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, Ms C complained to Aviva and then referred her complaint 
to our Service for an independent review. Our Investigator considered the complaint but 
recommended that it not be upheld. As Ms C remained unhappy, the complaint has been 
referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
Its my opinion that the complex nature of this complaint, the numerous issues it raises about 
the responsibilities of the neighbouring property and the considerations that have been 
raised by Ms C could mean that our Service is not best placed to deal with it. But on 
balance, overall I see no good reason for our Service to not consider the complaint.   
Im sorry to hear of how these events have impacted Ms C. Having seen the relevant reports 
and photographs of her property, its clear Ms C has been experiencing a very tough time 
and suffered extensive damage to her property. 
Its important that Im clear when I say the role of our Service when considering this 
complaint is to decide whether - on balance, Aviva have fairly considered this claim in line 
with the policy terms before taking the action they have. My decision will only be considering 
this claim - and not any previous claims made by either Ms C or her neighbour. For example, 
Ms C in her complaint form, has alleged that Aviva failed to take certain actions  such as 
appointing a surveyor to inspect her own property when responding to her neighbours claim 
- and that this has had a negative impact on her. I can only consider Avivas actions when 
responding to the claim Ms C made here.
Our Investigator previously shared our general approach to storm related complaints and 
Ive kept it in mind when considering this complaint. https://www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/complaints-can-help/insurance/home-insurance/storm-
damage 
Have Aviva fairly and reasonably considered this claim in line with the policy terms?
Aviva declined this claim for two main reasons; 1- the damage had not occurred as a result 
of an insured, one off event and 2- it had likely been happening over a period of time.   
The starting point in any insurance claim is there has to be an insured event. For example 
storm damage to Ms Cs property. Although Ms C has said it was the storm that caused the 
damage, this was (it seems) directly to her neighbours property  not directly hers. I find an 
important piece of evidence in this complaint to be the expert, independent third-party report 
which states:
The main cause of water ingress to the ceiling of the master bedroom is the 
neighbours balcony directly above. Since the original roof was blown off due to high 
winds, holding moisture/rainfall has been able to sit and penetrate through the tiled 
surface and work its way into the ceiling area over time and also the adjoining 
internal walls.
The report highlights the likely cause of the water ingress. This particular policy is not 
intended to cover damage to another property that, in turn, impacts Ms Cs property. 
I acknowledge Ms Cs point that a storm may have indirectly impacted her property here. But 
Ive also noted that there were other issues with other general water ingress going back a 
few years before this claim was made. As Ive concluded, on balance, that Aviva can fairly 
rely on there not being an insured event for the policy to respond to here, Ive not considered 
the gradual causes (reason 2 for the claim decline) angle further.  
In summary, I find that Aviva have fairly and reasonably considered this claim before 
declining it. This is because unfortunately, there is not an insured event here for the policy to 
respond to. For completeness, Aviva have also confirmed that the accidental damage 
caused by water ingress is not covered under this policy. I find this fair and in line with the 
policy terms. 
This will not be the outcome that Ms C wanted and it brings to an end our Services 
involvement in trying to informally resolve this dispute between her and Aviva. Ms C retains 
all other dispute resolution routes - such as taking legal advice.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman