DRN-2572845
The complaint
Mr G is represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). The CMC complains that 
Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited (Sanlam) provided unsuitable advice to Mr G and that 
he has suffered financial losses.
What happened
Mr G took out a savings plan in December 1991 and invested £30 per month until March 
2011. Mr G surrendered the policy in July 2015 and received a sum of £9,440.19.
The savings plan was recommended to be held for a period of 20-25 years to realise the full 
benefit and it was possible to invest up to the age of 65.
The CMC complained to Sanlan and said that due to Mr Gs personal circumstances at the 
time, he should not have been recommended such an inflexible contract. They also said that 
there was no requirement for the life cover that was provided by the policy. The CMC also 
said there was no evidence that Mr G had all the product information to make an informed 
decision.
Sanlan investigated the complaint but did not think that they had done anything wrong. They 
said that Mr Gs objective was to save regularly and to build long term capital for retirement. 
They said that their recommendation was suitable and didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with Sanlans decision, the CMC referred the complaint to the service and one of 
our investigators reviewed the complaint. The investigator thought that Sanlan had acted 
unfairly and that the advice provided was unsuitable. The investigator upheld the complaint 
and asked for Sanlan to compensate Mr G.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Sanlan have asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and will be upholding 
the complaint.
The fact-find that was completed in 1991 records that Mr G was 24 years old and single. He 
was living in rented accommodation and held a full-time role with a salary of £21,750. Mr G 
had savings totalling £24,350. The fact-find says that Mr G had a disposable monthly income 
of £880.
In their submission to the service, Sanlan say that there was nothing to suggest that the 
Policy was unaffordable, and Mr G paid into the policy for 24 years. Having reviewed the 
fact-find and Mr Gs personal and financial circumstances at the time, I think that Mr G had 
disposable income to invest.
I agree that there is nothing to suggest that the policy was unaffordable, but the complaint 
isnt about whether Mr G could afford the policy, its about whether the advice to invest into 
the policy was suitable.
The fact-find notes that Mr Gs needs and requirements were for retirement and house 
purchase. The recommendation was made because client wants to save regularly to build 
long term capital.
I think that this statement is at odds with the needs and requirements for Mr G. I 
acknowledge that building long term capital would contribute towards retirement, but Mr G 
was a 24-year-old single man who had listed in the section marked ambitions that he 
wished to be married with kids.
Given that Mr G had listed house purchase and wanted to get married with kids, I think that 
the recommendation to invest into a policy that should be kept for 20-25 years was 
unsuitable as his circumstances may well have changed while he held the policy.
In the submission to the service, Sanlan say that Mr G had the policy for 24 years and had 
left the cash fully invested up to 9 July 2015 after he stopped making contributions on 6 
March 2011. Im not persuaded that just because Mr G left his cash fully invested shows that 
the advice was suitable and affordable. 
The CMC say that Mr G should not have been recommended such an inflexible contract and 
I agree. The policy was not likely to have produced real returns for a period of 20-25 years 
and I think the advice was unsuitable.
In their submission to the service, the CMC say that life cover should not have been included 
within the policy. Having reviewed this, I think that inclusion of the life cover would make the 
policy tax efficient and not unreasonable for the length of time that that the policy was due to 
be held.
The CMC have also said that it cant be assumed that Mr G received all the information from 
Sanlan so that he could make an informed decision. From the information available to me, 
there is nothing to suggest that Mr G was not provided with all the relevant information.
  
Putting things right
Where the business has been found to have acted unfairly, the ombudsman will try and put 
the consumer back into the position they should have been in. The investigator has 
suggested compensation in the initial view and I think that this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I require Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay Mr G compensation based on the 
following calculations:
A = the premiums invested up to the date of surrender
B = a return on each premium at Bank of England base rate + 1% compounded yearly 
from the date it was paid to the date of surrender
C = the surrender value Mr G received 
D = A+B  C representing the investment loss at the date of surrender E = simple interest of 8% per year on D from the date of surrender to the date 
compensation is paid
  
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman