DRN-4271520
The complaint
The Estate of Mr Rs complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) relates to a 
loan secured by way of a charge over one of Mr Rs properties, which I shall refer to as ABC. 
Mrs R redeemed that charge in February 2022 and believes she should not have been 
asked to do so. She wants the monies she paid refunded together with interest. 
What happened
Mr R took out a business loan with NatWest providing security against the property ABC, 
which he owned. After Mr R passed away in 2021, his two daughters obtained letters of 
administration in order to administer his estate. They learned of the secured loan and Mrs R 
redeemed it in February 2022 thus releasing the charge on ABC. 
Mrs R has argued that she ought not to have been required to redeem the loan because (1) 
her solicitor didnt see a charge against the land when securing a separate mortgage, (2) 
she doesnt think the loan was legal and (3) the loan had already been repaid by Mr R prior 
to his demise.
NatWest say that when Mr R took the loan out, he did so as a sole trader and consented to it 
being secured over the property ABC. NatWest have been unable to provide the original 
loan agreement or charge but have provided account documentation and notes evidencing 
the existence of the loan and charge. They have been unable to say what the purpose of the 
loan was except that it was a business loan. NatWest have also said that the loan was never 
redeemed by Mr R and the only redemption payment made was by Mrs R. They invited Mrs 
R to provide some evidence of her belief that there was an earlier redemption by Mr R, but 
she has not been unable to provide any.
The Estate of Mr R were unhappy with NatWests final response and so approached this 
service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that on 
balance there had been a loan taken out by Mr R and secured on the property ABC. Further, 
it had not been redeemed prior to Mr R passing away and so it was fair and reasonable for 
NatWest to request it be paid out of his estate. As such he concluded there had been no 
poor service by NatWest. 
The Estate of Mr R didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this, and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive taken account of both sides views and Ive looked at the issues raised and considered 
all the available evidence. Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely 
to have happened in the light of the evidence which is available. This is often termed as 
finding the facts based on the balance of probabilities.
Mrs R has repeatedly asked NatWest to provide a copy of the charge and loan agreement. 
NatWest have said that due to the passage of time they do not have these documents, 
which I must say I find a little surprising. That said if they dont actually have the documents 
anymore they cannot produce them. 
Mrs R has throughout her complaint correspondence with our investigator made reference to 
various documents and she has been invited to submit those on a number of occasions but 
has never done so. So, whilst she makes reference to them I cannot take them into account 
as I have never seen them or read what they say.
As to the existence of the loan itself, neither the Estate of Mr R, or Mrs R have disputed that 
there was in fact a loan taken out. NatWest have supplied a statement of the loan account 
transactions which reveal that when the loan commenced on 18 November 2010, £82,150 
was drawn down. Loan repayments were made, and interest added over time, and on 31 
December 2021, shortly after Mr R passed away, the balance stood at £53,125.25. 
I have also seen some evidence of a guarantee being provided for £50,000 although the 
actual guarantee I have not seen. Whilst not definitive, this is sufficient evidence for me to 
find that it is more likely than not that Mr R took out a business loan for which he gave a 
guarantee of £50,000. 
The loan account also shows that at the time of Mr Rs death the loan had not been repaid 
since there was a balance outstanding. The Estate of Mr R, and Mrs R, dispute that, 
believing it to have been repaid at an earlier time, but they have provided no evidence to 
support that contention. In the absence of evidence showing that they did in fact redeem the 
loan, I find it is more likely than not that the loan was not repaid which is also supported by 
the loan account statement.
Although I have not seen the loan document or the charge itself, I have seen documentation 
which refers to the charge. Mrs R has also confirmed that there was such a charge too, 
since she refers to it in the context of her solicitors not seeing it. Again, this is sufficient 
evidence for me to find that it is more likely than not that there was a charge on the ABC in 
order to secure the loan. 
I know Mrs R has said her solicitor didnt see the loan when s/he was carrying out some 
mortgage work, and I dont know why they did not, but it has no impact on my findings that 
this loan did exist and had not been repaid. I also note that Mrs R has claimed the loan was 
not legal. I imagine that argument is advanced because she has not seen a copy of the 
agreement itself. The absence of the written agreement does not mean that the loan never 
existed, and for the reasons given above I am satisfied it did. And, I have seen nothing which 
would persuade me that the loan was illegal.
Having made the above findings I think NatWest were entitled to seek recovery of the loan 
from Mr Rs estate and in any event it was covered by the charge over ABC. Had Mrs R 
chosen not to repay the loan NatWest would have had the option of seeking an Order from 
the court to force a sale of the property to recover the outstanding loan balance. So, I cant 
say NatWest has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman