DRN-2855485
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Bank of Scotland plc wont refund money they lost when they fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr and Mrs P fell victim to a scam.
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows;
Mr and Mrs P were looking to buy a campervan and saw one that suited them on eBay.  
They contacted the seller and after exchanging several emails agreed to buy the campervan.  
Mr and Mrs P carried out an HPI check, which didnt show any concern and were sent a 
photocopy of the sellers passport. Mr and Mrs P were told that a delivery company would 
hold the payment for five days, giving Mr and Mrs P the opportunity to receive a full refund, 
should they not like the campervan.
Believing everything to be genuine, on 27 April 2020, Mr and Mrs P went ahead and made 
an international payment for £4,800, through their online banking, to purchase the 
campervan. But a few days after making the payment Mr and Mrs P were contacted by eBay 
informing them that the advert which had been posted was fake. So unknown to them at the 
time they had been dealing with a fraudster.
Mr and Mrs P contacted Bank of Scotland and have said that the bank initially told them that 
the money was still in their account, but later learnt that no funds remained in the beneficiary 
account. 
Mr and Mrs P complained to Bank of Scotland and it issued its final response on 3 
December 2020. In summary, it didnt uphold the complaint, as it didnt think Mr and Mrs P 
met the requisite level of care. It said it wasnt able to refund the payment under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the Code) as this was an international payment, which 
arent covered under the Code. It said that it didnt think the payment Mr and Mrs P made 
was unusual for them and so didnt trigger on its fraud systems.
Bank of Scotland added that the beneficiary bank did contact it to verify the payment. 
Following which Bank of Scotland said it contacted and spoke to Mr and Mrs P, at which 
time the scam came to light. It then made attempts to recall the payment, but after chasing 
the beneficiary bank several times, was told that no funds could be returned. Bank of 
Scotland did award £100 to Mr and Mrs P in recognition that it said its service could have 
been better.
Mr and Mrs P then brought their complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked 
into things. Our investigator didnt think Bank of Scotland could have done anything to 
prevent the scam  she didnt consider the payment Mr and Mrs P made was particularly out 
of the ordinary, or so unusual that it should have raised Bank of Scotlands suspicions. And 
she didnt think Bank of Scotland missed an opportunity to identify the payment could 
potentially have been in relation to a scam. Our investigator was also satisfied that Bank of 
Scotland did what it could to recover the money, once it was aware of the scam.
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept our investigators view. They said the bank told them the money 
was still there and could have recalled it and questioned why our investigator had referred to 
other payments going out of their account.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed over to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr and Mrs P, and I can understand entirely why 
they feel so strongly that this money should be returned to them. But having thought very 
carefully about Bank of Scotlands actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing 
the transfer to leave Mr and Mrs Ps account. I also dont think it could have done any more 
than it did to try and recover the money. Ill explain why. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Bank of Scotland should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.In this case, I need to decide whether Bank of Scotland acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr and Mrs P, when they made the transfers and when she reported the fraud, 
or whether it should have done more than it did.
In making the payments through their online banking, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs P authorised 
the transactions. Because of this, Bank of Scotland had an obligation to follow their 
instructions. But there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer 
look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as Ive explained, I consider that as a 
matter of good practice Bank of Scotland shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out 
of character transactions.
Bank of Scotland has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect 
unusual activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But 
on balance, I cant fairly say that the transaction was so unusual or suspicious in comparison 
to Mr and Mrs Ps normal account activity that it ought to have alerted Bank of Scotland that 
Mr and Mrs P were at risk of financial harm.
I say this as, having looked through Mr and Mrs Ps bank statements for the twelve months 
leading up to the scam, I can see that there were a number of payments larger in size than 
the payment in dispute. I can also see that Mr and Mrs P moved money into the account to 
facilitate the payment, which they had also done on other occasions. I recognise that this 
was an international payment, but that in itself isnt enough for me to fairly and reasonably 
find that Bank of Scotland ought to have intervened and I dont think this alone would have 
given Bank of Scotland much cause for concern. So, for these reasons, I dont think the 
payment Mr and Mrs P made would have stood out as being particularly unusual or 
suspicious compared to their normal account activity.
Overall the payment simply didnt look so unusual or suspicious to me that I think Bank of 
Scotland ought to have intervened. As a result, I dont think Bank of Scotland acted 
unreasonably in not making enquiries about the payment before processing it. There isnt 
enough here for me to think Bank of Scotland should have suspected Mr and Mrs P might be 
the victims of a potential scam. 
Ive gone on to think about whether Bank of Scotland did what it shouldve done once it was 
aware this was a scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask Bank of Scotland to refund the 
money to Mr and Mrs P, I need to be satisfied that Bank of Scotland should have acted 
sooner in trying to recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to 
decide whether it made any difference.
Here, I can see the beneficiary bank contacted Bank of Scotland to verify the payment.  
Evidence Ive seen shows that Bank of Scotland then had a conversation with Mr and Mrs P, 
following which it made numerous attempts in asking the beneficiary bank to recall the 
payment, but was eventually told that no funds could be returned. So, I cant fairly or 
reasonably say Bank of Scotland didnt do what it should have done, once it was aware of 
the scam.  
It is unfortunate that the beneficiary bank, having asked Bank of Scotland to verify the 
payment, seem, on the face of it, to have allowed the payment to progress before Bank of 
Scotland referred back to it. But I cant reasonably say Bank of Scotland had any control 
over this. Sadly, it is quite typical with these types of scams for fraudsters to move money 
away from the beneficiary account, soon after the payments are made  which makes it 
difficult for funds to be recovered.  
I understand Mr and Mrs P have mentioned a voluntary code. I think what is being referred 
to here is The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code). The CRM code, which I have mentioned earlier. This was introduced on 28 May 2019, but doesnt cover international 
payments. Therefore, I cant take it into consideration when deciding this complaint.
Bank of Scotland acknowledged that it could have provided a better service to Mr and Mrs P 
and in recognition of this it offered them £100. I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Its very unfortunate Mr and Mrs P have lost this money in this way, and I understand the 
whole experience has been deeply upsetting for them and I dont underestimate their 
strength of feeling. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Bank 
of Scotland should have done more to prevent Mr and Mrs P from losing this money. So I 
dont think it would be fair for me to ask Bank of Scotland to refund the loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman