DRN-3117567
The complaint
Ms B complains about the way Next Retail Limited handled an overpayment on her account 
and that it wasnt recorded on her credit file accurately.  
What happened
Ms B had a credit account with Next. In 2016, in order to settle the account, Ms B made a 
payment, but in doing so she mistakenly overpaid by £9.76. She was unaware of this 
overpayment and Next didnt tell her, so there had been £9.76 credit on her account since 
May 2016.
When Ms B became aware of this overpayment, she checked her credit file and saw that the 
fact her account was in credit wasnt reflected in the credit file  it showed her balance as 
zero. So she complained to Next. 
In its final response Next agreed that it had treated her unfairly in not telling her about the 
overpayment as it shouldve. It offered Ms B a refund, and a £30 gift card, or £30 cash by 
way of compensation. But it said it couldnt amend her credit file to show the account was in 
credit, as it wasnt allowed to.
Ms B didnt agree so complained to our service. She also said Next had sent her the gift card 
but she hadnt used it. 
Our investigator agreed that Next had treated Ms B unfairly in not informing her of the 
overpayment she made in 2016. Whilst she agreed that its offer of the refund and £30 gift 
card or cash was fair and reasonable in the circumstances, she also thought 8% simple 
interest should be added to the refund as this was money Ms B had been unfairly deprived 
of. She also explained to Ms B that as a credit file cant show an overpayment, Next werent 
unreasonable in saying it couldnt be amended to show this. 
Next agreed with this outcome, but Ms B did not. She said it was unfair that her credit file 
should show a balance of zero when in fact there was a positive balance of £9.76. Our 
investigator explained that credit files show the amount of money that consumers owe 
businesses, and that positive balances show zero because nothing is owed. But Ms B didnt 
agree so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I agree with the investigators outcome, for largely the same reasons. I 
appreciate this wont be what Ms B wants to hear, and I understand this is a matter of 
principle to her, so Ill explain my reasons.
Firstly, I can see Next made an error in not informing Ms B that she had made an 
overpayment, and as a result there was credit of £9.76 on her account between 2016 and 
2021. This is money that needs to be refunded. 
In respect of Ms Bs credit file, she wants it to reflect that there was an overpayment made in 
2016. Whilst I can understand why she feels this way, Im afraid I dont agree with her.
Credit files are used to show the status of credit accounts held by consumers, by showing 
whether the required payments are made and on time, and how much is owed by the 
consumer to the business. They dont show positive balances as that is not what they are 
designed for or to do. So I agree that Next are unable to report the positive balance to the 
credit agencies as Ms B wants, so Im satisfied that Next have acted fairly in this regard.  
Putting things right
In relation to the overpayment made by Ms B in 2016, I can see Next have offered to refund 
this. But because this is money that Ms B has been unfairly deprived of, I also agree with the 
investigator that 8% simple interest should be added to this amount from the time the 
overpayment was made - May 2016 - until April 2021 when Next offered the refund. 
In recognition of their error, Next have already sent Ms B a £30 gift card. I think this amount 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, but should Ms B prefer money instead she 
should arrange for the gift card to be cancelled and Next should pay £30 directly into her 
bank account. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Next Retail Limited to 
either honour the £30 gift card it has already sent Ms B, or if she prefers it should 
cancel the gift card and pay her £30 into her bank account;
Refund £9.76 owed to Ms B and add 8% simple interest to this amount, calculated 
from May 2016 until April 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman