DRN-3987794
The complaint
Mr J complains about the level of service received from Aviva Insurance Limited following a 
total loss claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties, so I wont repeat it here. Instead Ill 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Many points have been made in relation to this matter  I havent addressed each one 
individually. Instead Ive focused on what I consider to be the pertinent points. That isnt 
meant as a discourtesy, it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
Mr Js vehicle was deemed a total loss following an incident in July 2022. Aviva settled the 
claim in September 2022 but failed to inform Mr J what would happen next in respect of the 
policy, or his options. They say, in certain circumstances, they can suspend a policy for two 
weeks following a total loss for a policyholder to arrange adding a replacement vehicle to the 
policy. In this case, Aviva say they should have cancelled the policy following the September 
2022 claim settlement being agreed but failed to do so.
Mr J says he found out the policy was still active after receiving a renewal letter. And when 
he discussed this with Aviva, they were unhelpful, wouldnt listen, and cancelled his policy 
without notice or cause. The reason why the policy was cancelled back to the date the total 
loss settlement was reached, was because there was no longer an insurable interest  such 
as a vehicle on the policy. This is fairly common practice  the error here was Aviva failing to 
cancel it when they should have done, or communicate this to Mr J. 
Aviva accept they made an error. And to put matters right, they processed the cancellation in 
the way it should have been done had things been handled correctly. They provided Mr J 
with a partial refund and refunded a cancellation fee he otherwise would have paid had 
things been handled correctly. I think that was reasonable. They also told Mr J that, despite 
the policy not running for the full term, they would round up his no claims discount so he 
wouldnt lose out, and he wouldnt need to declare the cancellation to future insurers given 
the reasons for the cancellation. 
All things considered  I think Aviva could have handled things better following the 
September 2022 claim settlement, and with a higher level of customer service. I appreciate 
this would have been a frustrating time for Mr J. That said, Ive outlined above the steps 
taken by Aviva  following notice of their error  in attempt to put matters right. Im satisfied 
these steps to acknowledge their error were reasonable, and put Mr J back in the position he 
should have been in had things happened in the way they should have. 
Mr J says the cost of his insurance with a new provider increased as the result of Avivas 
failings. If hes unhappy with the cost of his new insurance, thats a matter for his new 
provider to respond to. In respect of this complaint, while Aviva made an error, I find they 
took fair and reasonable steps to put matters right here. It follows I dont require Aviva to 
take any action. I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr J. But it ends 
what we  in attempting to resolve his dispute with Aviva  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman