DRN-3471703
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the quality of furniture she financed through an agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited (Creation) 
What happened
Mrs C entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation on 7 August 2021. This was to 
purchase furniture from a supplier that I shall refer to as J. The furniture was delivered in 
December 2021. Shortly after this, Mrs C says she complained to J, as the furniture was 
making a creaky noise and was to low down, causing back pain. 
On 21 December 2021, J sent a technician to inspect Mrs Cs furniture. The technician 
explained that he couldnt find fault with the furniture. Mrs C was unhappy with this and 
therefore complained to Creation. 
Creation spoke to J and considered the conclusions of the technician that had inspected the 
furniture. After considering this, Creation said it was rejecting Mrs Cs claim that the furniture 
was faulty. It said the technician had found no faults and that if Mrs C disagreed, then she 
would need to prove that a manufacturing fault existed.
Unhappy with the final response from Creation, Mrs C referred her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that given the evidence, 
they were unable to say the furniture was faulty. Mrs C again disagreed and said the issues 
were raised the day after delivery and that the furniture was faulty, as it was making noise 
and is lower down than it should be. 
As Mrs C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C used a fixed sum loan from Creation to pay for her furniture. This means that section 
75 (s.75) is relevant to this complaint. To explain, s.75 is part of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA). It allows, subject to certain criteria, someone buying goods and/or services on 
credit to claim for a breach of contract or a misrepresentation against their credit provider 
when there is a like claim against the supplier. 
Those criteria include things like the cost of the goods being between £100 and £30,000 and 
there being a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. From what I can see here, all the 
necessary criteria for a claim to be made under s.75 have been met.
 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant. The CRA implies terms into Mrs Cs 
contract with J that, amongst other things, the furniture would be of satisfactory quality. This 
means if Mrs C was provided with furniture that wasnt of satisfactory quality, then Creation 
might be required to take further action to remedy the situation as it would be a breach of 
contract.
However, in this case Im not persuaded that the furniture she received was faulty. 
As the investigator has said, we arent experts in furniture and therefore tend to rely on the 
findings of experts. Here an inspection was carried out by one of Js technicians. This 
technician concluded that:
 
On inspection of the sofa I found all aspects of the sofa to be correct.
The technician went on to say that: 
 There is an amount of noise related to the finish of the fabric rubbing as it reclines but I 
found the seats, mech and fillings to be normal. All correct.
Given this, it would appear the noise Mrs C has complained about isnt a fault. But rather 
something that can happen when a reclining sofa is in motion and the material rubs during 
that process. The technician also didnt find that the sofa had been lowered and confirmed 
that he was satisfied all aspects were correct.
   
Mrs C also hasnt provided any of her own evidence to challenge the findings of the 
technician and show that a manufacturing fault was present. Given this, I dont think there is 
sufficient evidence to suggest the furniture was faulty when it was supplied to Mrs C.
 
I appreciate Mrs Cs point that the sofa is causing back pain. This is unfortunate and I 
sympathise with her, but this doesnt mean the furniture is faulty. As Ive explained above, 
Im not persuaded based on the available evidence, that a fault is present. 
Therefore, I dont think that Creation acted unfairly in declining Mrs Cs claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman