DRN-3582736
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) changed the type of term 
assurance policy they held without their knowledge.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. HSBC has accepted our Investigators opinion, but Mr and Mrs V have disagreed and 
maintain that the policy originally sold to them was level term assurance (LTA). Except for 
the type of policy sold and the belief that the policy was switched in 2012 the sequence of 
events arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key considerations of this case are whether HSBC did enough to effectively 
communicate the correct terms of the policy at the point of sale, whether there is any 
evidence to suggest its changed these terms since, and whether the policy sold in 2005 was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs V.
Mr and Mrs V feel they were sold a LTA by HSBC in 2005. I recognise their recollections 
about the time of sale, but I must weigh these recollections against the consideration of any 
documentary evidence available and decide what is most likely to have happened. Having 
done so, Im not satisfied there is enough evidence to persuade me that, more likely than 
not, Mr and Mrs V were told or led to believe the policy they took out was level term.
This is because I havent seen anything to suggest Mr and Mrs V was told this was the case. 
Whilst LTA is listed as an option on the advice instruction form completed in 2005, the only 
policies recorded as recommended and purchased were DTC, MRP and IPP  LTA 
wasnt recommended or recorded as purchased. The key features documents for the policy 
taken states This cover will decrease each year in line with a typical capital repayment 
mortgage. And whilst Mr and Mrs V are confident they never received this document in 
2005, the signed instruction form asked them to confirm receipt of the key features by 
signing.
I appreciate that I cant say with certainty what was discussed verbally at the time of sale, 
but the available documentation explains how the policy would decrease. Im satisfied the 
documentation is the most reliable representation of what happened available to me. So, I 
cant reasonably conclude that HSBC misled Mr and Mrs V about the nature of the policy as 
the balance of evidence doesnt support this.
The premiums paid by Mr and Mrs V exactly match the premiums recorded on the instruction 
form for the recommended DTC policy. There is no point at which the documentation 
available suggests it would be a level term policy. And what little documentation I do have 
available to me suggests the policy recommended and purchased was decreasing term 
assurance with critical illness cover. So, Im satisfied that a decreasing term assurance 
policy was recommended and sold.
Mr and Mrs V have also explained that in 2016 an independent mortgage advisor informed 
them the policy was LTA. Im unsure why they were told this was the case, but I cant hold 
HSBC responsible for information not provided by itself or its agents.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs V were reasonably informed by HSBC at the point of sale that 
the policy was a decreasing term assurance. And so, by extension Im satisfied that HSBC 
havent changed this aspect of the policy during more recent conversations between 2012 
and 2021  as it was already a decreasing term assurance policy. Regardless, Id still expect 
the policy to be a suitable recommendation based on all the information HSBC was given by 
Mr and Mrs V at the time in 2005.
There is limited documentation available from the time of sale, but from what is available I 
can see Mr and Mrs V had a repayment mortgage worth £144,995 with a remaining term of 
25 years and no prior protection in place.
Mr and Mrs V had a clear need for protection which had the primary purpose of providing a 
lump sum to cover their mortgage in the event of their deaths. The cover recommended 
meant that should Mr or Mrs V die within its term the property would be able to be left to their 
respective partner. Should Mr or Mrs V become critically ill the policy would also help to 
maintain their lifestyle.
Ive seen no evidence to suggest the costs of premiums were unaffordable at the point of 
sale. Mr and Mrs V were able to pay the same premiums up until they altered their policy in 
2012, and its important to note that the LTA policy they now wish they held would have cost 
substantially more.
Whilst Mr and Mrs V have explained theyd directly asked for level term assurance at the 
time of sale, none of the documentation available has recorded this request as a specific 
need or mentioned any objective beyond typical mortgage protection. So, Im satisfied the 
recommendation for decreasing term assurance was suitable giving the decreasing nature of 
their mortgage, and the clear need for mortgage protection recorded on file.
As the policy met Mr and Mrs Vs recorded needs, Im satisfied that the recommendation 
was suitable in the circumstances. As I think HSBCs recommendation was suitable, I wont 
be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman