DRN-4075736
The complaint
Miss K complains about National Westminster Bank Plcs (NatWest) refusal to uphold her 
claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
What happened
Miss K paid for a relative to have dental work done overseas. Miss Ks position is that there 
was a breach of contract because the work was not done with reasonable skill and care and 
will have to be redone. Moreover, she indicates that consequential losses flow from the 
breach of contract, she wants a remedy to cover her total loss. The supplier, who I will call 
D was willing to do further remedial work. However, Miss Ks relative has lost confidence in 
D and does not wish to return to it to have the remedial work done.
Miss K paid for the work, in part, by using her credit card with NatWest. Because Miss K paid 
D by credit card she considers she is entitled to ask NatWest to put right the breach of 
contract, in particular Miss K relies on the rights she believes she has against NatWest 
under Section 75. The general effect of Section 75 is that if Miss K has a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier, here that is D, she can also 
bring a like claim against NatWest. Miss K complained to NatWest telling it she was relying 
on her rights under Section 75.
NatWest responded to say that just because Miss K had paid D using her credit card that 
does not, by itself, mean she is entitled to bring a claim under Section 75. Specifically, it told 
her that for Section 75 to apply certain conditions must be met. One of these conditions is 
that there must be a specific agreement in place known as a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement. This means Miss K must be the debtor, NatWest must be the creditor and the D 
must be the supplier. However, NatWest did not agree this agreement was in place. It said 
this because it thought the contract for the dental work was made between Miss Ks relative 
and D, therefore it follows that Miss Ks relative not Miss K is the debtor. It also follows there 
is no valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place that permits Miss K to bring a claim 
against NatWest under Section 75. Therefore it declined her claim.
Dissatisfied with NatWests response to her claim Miss K complained to our service.
Once her complaint was with us Miss K provided an experts report on the work done on her 
relatives teeth. Later, Miss K wanted to provide a translation of the experts report as she 
thinks the translation we obtained is not accurate. Further, Miss K suggested that she only 
went ahead with using her credit card to pay for the treatment because NatWest, assured 
her in advance that if she had to make a claim against it, that claim would be covered by 
Section 75.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Our investigator did not 
recommend that Miss Ks complaint should be upheld.
As far as I am aware NatWest did not tell us whether it accepted or rejected our 
investigators recommendation it merely told us it had received it. However, Miss K 
responded to let us know she rejected it. Ive summarised below Miss Ks objections to our 
investigators recommendation.
Miss K repeated her previous stance.
Miss K suggests our investigator did not give the correct weight to the experts report 
she provided.
Miss K tells us our investigator should not have looked at a process called 
chargeback but should just have looked at NatWests response to her claim under 
Section 75.
Miss K asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. I think here 
relevant law includes Section 75.
Before I can look at whether there has been a breach of contract Ive first got to decide 
whether Section 75 applies here at all, Miss K says it does, NatWest says it does not. Miss K 
indicates NatWest changed its position on this because she called it before she paid D and it 
told her that Section 75 would apply. This is what she says on this point.
I had specifically checked with NatWest Bank prior to making the payment, and in case they 
deny (which I am getting the impression of is the case based on your decision), I would like 
to provide the specific correspondence about why I do not accept their denial of 
responsibility as I had been advised otherwise and made the payment based on that 
decision.
However, Ive read the case notes of this conversation and I can see NatWest told Miss K it 
could not guarantee the outcome of any such claim. I find it unlikely NatWests records 
would be inaccurate on this point. So I dont agree NatWest has changed its stance since 
this phone call. Section 75 does not apply in all circumstances. One of the qualifying conditions for a 
successful claim is that there must be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place. To 
establish if there is one Ive looked at the roles played by each of the participants to see who 
contracted with D and who therefore is the debtor in relation to that contract. 
It is clear that due to the nature of the service supplied the contract had to be made between 
D and Miss Ks relative. In so far as only Miss Ks relative could consent to have dental 
treatment from D, so I think only she contracted with D. This is supported by the one 
contractual document I do have, the invoice from D which is addressed to Miss Ks relative 
not Miss K.
In all of the circumstances, I am satisfied therefore that there is no debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement in place that would entitle Miss K to bring a claim under Section 75 against 
NatWest. It follows therefore Miss Ks point about a breach of contract falls away and I need 
look no further at this. This also means I dont have to consider the experts report any 
further, in relation to this part of Miss Ks complaint, as it was relevant to the question of the 
breach of contract. 
For the reasons I have set out above I dont uphold this part of Miss Ks complaint.
Miss K has objected to this service looking at chargeback.  However I think it is relevant as 
Miss K paid for the goods and services using her credit card and wanted a refund, amongst 
other things. Therefore,  when I think  about whether NatWest dealt with her request fairly, it 
is fair and reasonable to take chargeback into account. I say this because this is a way in 
which payment settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants. They 
are dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules. Therefore, in certain circumstances the 
process provides a way for NatWest  to ask for a payment Miss K made to be refunded. The 
circumstances include where goods or services arent as described/misrepresented by the 
company Miss K paid.  Which is what Miss K complains about, in part. 
However, a consumer has no automatic right to a chargeback. While this service considers 
that it is good practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there is 
some prosect of success, the circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be 
appropriate for the bank to raise a chargeback. In the circumstances of this complaint I think 
it would not have been appropriate for NatWest to have raised a chargeback because it is 
unlikely it would have been successful given the information NatWest had at the time and 
given that the only contractual document was in Miss Ks relatives name not her own.
It follows that I dont find that NatWest acted unfairly in not raising a chargeback. It also 
follows I have no proper basis for upholding this part of Miss Ks complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ks complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman