DRN-3694382
The complaint
Mr Ms complained that esure Insurance Limited didnt provide a courtesy car after thieves 
damaged his car when attempting to steal it.  And they significantly increased his premium 
on renewal, even though hed protected his no claims discount (NCD).
What happened
In spring 2022, thieves attempted to steal Mr Ms car, damaging it in the process.  He 
contacted esure to make a claim.
Mr M was entitled to a courtesy car under the terms of his policy.  He told esure he needed 
one that day (Friday).  But the garage dealing with repairs didnt have any available.  Esure 
told him the garage would look to supply a car on the following Monday.
The garage still couldnt supply a courtesy car on Monday.  Esure also contacted a car rental 
company to try and source one that way, but the rental company had no cars available until 
the following week.  Mr M said he had a car hire benefit on his policy.  But esure said this 
only applied where his car was stolen and not recovered, or was assessed as a total loss.
Mr M complained.  Esure offered him £100 compensation for not having any cars available.  
Mr M didnt accept this and asked for his complaint to be escalated.
Repairs were completed on Wednesday of the same week and Mr M collected his car.
In their written response to his complaint, esure told Mr M that his policy terms said they 
aimed to provide a courtesy car within two working days.  And they repeated the hire car 
benefit didnt apply to the circumstances of his claim.  Esure said fewer cars were available 
as a result of reduced production of new cars and that there were delays in getting parts for 
repairs, meaning cars were out longer on hire.  And they arranged to pay the £100 
compensation theyd previously offered.
In response, Mr M said the lack of a courtesy car has meant hed had to use taxis to get to 
and from work.  And he said hed received a renewal quote which was double what hed paid 
the previous year, even though hed paid to protect his NCD.  Esure replied, offering a 
further £100 compensation and advised theyd arranged payment of this to Mr M. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with esures response and brought his complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded that the payment of a total of £200 compensation 
esure had paid Mr M was reasonable to resolve his complaint.  He was satisfied the policy 
set out in what circumstances the car hire benefit was provided.  
The investigator agreed esure should have provided a courtesy car - so it was reasonable 
esure contribute towards the costs of alternative transport Mr M had incurred.  Mr M couldnt 
provide any receipts or other evidence to show what hed spent.  So the investigator said it 
was fair to adopt the same approach the courts use and calculate payment at £10 per day.  
On that basis, the £100 offered to Mr M for loss of use of his car was fair.
In respect of the NCD, the investigator said the policy makes it clear the price may still 
increase even if the NCD is protected.  He was satisfied that the increased premium was 
calculated using the correct NCD.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Its clear from what Ive seen that Mr Ms frustrated at what he sees as sharp practice by 
esure.  I can understand why his experience makes him feel that way.  But its not the role of 
our service to look at a businesss practices.  Rather, I need to decide whether the terms of 
Mr Ms policy were clear and that esure applied them fairly in his case.
The policy was sold on a non-advised basis.  That means it was Mr Ms responsibility to read 
the policy documentation and check it was suitable for his needs.
Ive looked at the information provided in the policy documents about both car hire and 
courtesy cars.  Car hire is an optional extra Mr M bought.  The relevant section says:
If your car is stolen and not recovered, or we agree its a total loss, youll get a similar-sized 
hire car by the end of the next working day. You can use this while your claim is being 
processed, for up to a maximum of 21 days.
I think that makes it clear in what circumstances car hire is provided.  And as those werent 
the circumstances of Mr Ms claim, I dont think it was unfair for esure not to provide a hire 
car.
In relation to providing a courtesy car, the policy says:
We aim to provide a courtesy car to you within two working days.
Again, I think thats clear.  I understand Mr M wanted a car immediately.  But I think the word 
aim makes it clear that this isnt always possible.  And Im satisfied that, if esures garage 
had been able to provide a car as anticipated, on the Monday after the claim was made, that 
would have been within the policy terms.
I appreciate a car wasnt available then either.  In those circumstances, I think it would be 
reasonable for esure to fund the cost of alternative transport.  Esure agreed and paid Mr M 
£100 towards this.
Mr M said this amount was too low.  But he told our investigator that hed thrown away the 
receipts showing what hed actually spent.  And he didnt supply any alternative evidence of 
the sort our investigator suggested.  Without this, and taking into account that Mr M was only 
without a car from Monday (when he was told one would be available) until Wednesday of 
the same week, I think esure paid Mr M a reasonable sum for being without a car and for the 
inconvenience this caused.
Finally, Ive thought about Mr Ms complaint that his insurance premium increased on 
renewal, even though hed protected his NCD.Its not for our service to interfere with a businesss commercial decision about how much to 
charge for its policies.  I need to consider whether esure calculated Mr Ms premium 
increase fairly, applying its criteria consistently.
A NCD doesnt stop the price of an insurance policy increasing.  Rather, it is used to 
calculate how much a price should be discounted to reflect the fact a policyholder hasnt 
made any claims.
Mr Ms policy confirms this.  It says:
By adding NCD protection to your policy, your premium may still increase at renewal 
whether or not you have made a claim, due to other rating factors which may apply.
I think that term makes clear esure take into account a number of factors in calculating 
premiums, not just how many years NCD a customer has.  And that, even after its applied, 
a NCD doesnt mean premiums wont increase  as happened here.  
The file contains two policy schedules, one from 2021 (before the claim) and one from 2022 
(after the claim).  The 2021 policy shows Mr M had eight years NCD and that, if he didnt 
protect that and made a claim, that would drop to three years.   But the 2022 schedule 
shows nine years NCD was applied at renewal.  
So Im satisfied Mr M got the benefit of the protection he paid for  even though his premium 
went up.  And I dont think esure need to do any more to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about esure Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman