DRN-2769469
The complaint
Mr N complains that Lloyds Bank PLC withdrew his credit card facility without informing him.
What happened
Mr N had a credit card account with Lloyds. He says that Lloyds has removed his credit card 
facility without telling him and without his permission. He says he received a letter to say his 
credit limit was being reduced from £900 to £850. And he says that his credit card is still 
showing on his internet banking. He says it shows a credit limit of £850. 
Mr N says hes received statements from Lloyds for the card and they also show that his 
card is still active and has a credit limit of £850. Despite this, he says his card has been 
declined and the facility has been withdrawn. He complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds investigated his complaint. It said thered been several interest freeze repayment 
plans on both his credit card and his current account (also with Lloyds). It said the terms and 
conditions for the card stated that the credit facility could be withdrawn at any time. Lloyds 
said it wouldve been irresponsible to allow Mr N to avail of further credit in these 
circumstances.
Mr N wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response. He complained to our service. Our investigator 
looked into his complaint. She said Mr N contacted Lloyds in September 2019. Shed 
listened to that call and on two occasions Mr N had been told he would no longer be able to 
use his credit card. She said hed also acknowledged he could make payments to the card 
but could no longer use it. She also thought it would be irresponsible for Lloyds to allow him 
to continue to spend on the card.
Mr N didnt agree. He asked why the credit card was still showing on his internet banking 
with a credit limit of £850. He said hed not been told that the facility was withdrawn. He was 
still receiving annual statements. He also queried why Lloyds had told him in April 2020 it 
would reduce the credit limit, if infact it had withdrawn it in September 2019.
Because Mr N didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered firstly what happened in September 2019 when Mr N approached Lloyds.  
He said hed made a complaint to Lloyds about the mis-sale of the credit card. Lloyds hadnt 
upheld his complaint, but he said it had told him he wouldnt have to pay any interest on the 
account if he had a repayment plan.
In September 2019 the account was up to date. During the telephone call, Lloyds confirmed, 
after checking Mr Ns income and expenditure that he had enough surplus income to make 
the monthly payments to the account. But Mr N insisted that he wanted a repayment plan. 
Lloyds said it couldnt offer a repayment plan. But, it said it could refer the case to its 
specialist team and that would mean thered be no interest charged.
Having listened to the call and what Mr N said he wanted to achieve, I think he was asking to 
clear the amount outstanding on the card  without having to pay any further interest. Lloyds 
didnt agree a repayment plan with him. It agreed to refer his account to its specialist team.
As our investigator pointed out, twice during the call Mr N was told that once the case was 
referred to the specialist team, he wouldnt be able to use the credit card. He confirmed his 
understanding that this meant he could make payments to the account, but he couldnt use 
the card. 
Mr N says he was told this only applied whilst the account was with the specialist team. But, 
as Ive mentioned above, I dont think that was what was intended  by either Lloyds or Mr 
N. Mr Ns intention was to clear the balance on the card  which hed said had been mis-sold 
to him. And, hed confirmed during the call that hed be able to make payments to the 
account but wouldnt be able to use the card.
Mr N made no further withdrawals from the account. The last withdrawal was on 9 
September 2019. That withdrawal brought the outstanding balance on the account to 
£900.88. The limit was £900. Mr N paid £0.88 on 13 October 2019 which brought the 
balance back to £900.
Over the next few months Mr N made the following payments to the account:
23 November 2019 £40.27
30 March 2020 £65.00
10 April 2020 £12.35
16 April 2020 £815.90
After 16 April 2020 the balance on the account was nil  so it had been repaid in full at that 
date. I think that was what Mr N wanted to achieve when he spoke to Lloyds in September 
2019. 
It is the case that interest was charged to the account on 9 December 2019 and 9 January 
2020. So, Ive thought about why that happened. 
Lloyds told Mr N during the call that it couldnt freeze interest on the account because he had 
enough surplus income to make the usual repayments. Mr N told Lloyds he had a gambling 
addiction and that was why it agreed to refer the case to its specialist team. Whilst his case 
was with that team interest wouldnt be charged. 
Mr N was told he needed to contact the specialist team. That team also wrote to him, asking 
him to contact it. He didnt do that  so the case was passed back from that team in 
November  thats why interest was charged at that time. Its not clear what caused the case 
to be passed back to the specialist team again - but I can see it was referred back in January 
2020 and once again interest was stopped.
Ive also thought about what Mr Ns told us about the credit limit on his account. Lloyds wrote 
to him in April 2020 to tell him the credit limit was reduced to £850. I think that reflected the 
fact that hed reduced the outstanding balance by making a payment of £65.00 on 30 March 
2020. 
I agree with Mr N that after he made the payments in April 2020, Lloyds shouldve written to 
him to tell him that it would reduce the credit limit to zero and close the account. And it shouldve also reflected this on his internet banking and on his statements. But, even though 
I think it shouldve done that, Im not persuaded it has acted unfairly or unreasonably by not 
allowing him to use the credit card. It had already told him that would be the case when he 
spoke to it in September 2019.
Having considered everything here, including what Mr N told Lloyds about his circumstances 
and what he wanted to achieve, I agree with our investigator when she said it wouldve been 
irresponsible to continue to allow Mr N to spend on the card.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman