DRN-3822719
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc restricted his payment and, as he was 
paying for a time sensitive investment, this caused a financial loss.
What happened
In May 2022, Mr M chose a strategic day to invest in shares and he wished to transfer 
more than £5000 from his RBS current account to his broker. Mr M explains that he was 
investing and, as this was a time sensitive transaction, he planned to use his on-line / mobile 
banking app.
However, when making the payment on the specific day, he found his on-line banking app 
wouldnt allow him to complete the transaction. And, as he was unable to visit an RBS 
branch due to work commitments, he couldnt resolve the issue and was unable to transfer 
the intended amount. 
Mr M subsequently discovered that his investment strategy wouldve been profitable. But, by 
not being able to make the full payment on the same day, he missed out on approx. £7000.
When Mr M complained about this to RBS, they explained that the on-line / mobile banking 
app had a default limit of £5000. 
RBS apologised for not communicating the limit but stated their payment system worked as 
intended. They said that although there was a default limit, Mr M couldve amended this on 
his on-line / mobile banking app up to a maximum of £20,000. Also, Mr M couldve made the 
payment through other means, such as calling their Telephone Banking service or visiting 
one of their branches to make a faster payment or CHAPS payment. 
RBS added that Mr M didnt contact them on the day of the issue which meant it was too late 
for them to take any action to avoid the loss. However, as an apology for their 
communication error they credited Mr Ms account with £100. 
RBS also stated that under section 8.6 of the Current Account Terms, they cant  be held 
responsible for for any losses you suffer relating to loss of opportunity, loss of goodwill, loss 
of business or loss of profit arising in any circumstance, as we would class these under 
consequential loss.
Mr M complained to our service. However, although our investigator acknowledged the 
inconvenience and frustration, he didnt uphold his complaint.
As Mr M remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the following reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Firstly, I should explain we arent the regulator of the financial services industry and our role 
is to consider each individual case. Also, where we think a business hasnt acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances, our role is to decide what should be done to put right any 
financial, or non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced. 
Its clear that this was a very important transaction for Mr M. He had a strategy and planned 
to transfer funds to his broker. And, I can see why he feels the RBS payment limit prevented 
his transaction and caused him to miss out on an investment.
However, although its clear that RBS didnt communicate the £5000 transaction limit, 
considering the large amount involved, that exceeded this limit, I think its reasonable for 
RBS to have expected Mr M, as part of his planning, to have checked the limit prior to 
commencing the transaction. Also, to check the on-line / mobile banking app which he 
intended to use.
RBS have provided me with copies of the information on the app, so, had Mr M looked at 
this, he would have become aware that his limit was somewhere between 0 and £20000. 
And, that he either needed to ascertain his limit, or go to the information (detailed below) 
which is clearly displayed on the app, enabling him to increase his limit up to £20000:
App page  Paying someone else
You can manage your own personal payment limits within Digital Banking for 
payments made from your personal account to someone else via Digital Banking, the 
Mobile app and Open Banking.
To change your personal payment limits, please visit the 'Manage my payment limits' 
section within Digital Banking or in the Mobile app.
The maximum limit you can set for payments via Digital Banking, the Mobile app and 
Open Banking per working day is: Personal customers - £20,000.00
Whilst I appreciate the time sensitivity and Mr Ms work commitments, I also think it would 
have been reasonable for RBS to have expected Mr M to have contacted them when he 
couldnt make an important payment. And, I cant see that Mr M did this. So, although Mr M 
says he didnt have time to visit a branch, had he contacted RBS they couldve given him 
support, helped him change the limit or alternatively looked at a payment through other 
means.
I also considered RBSs communication error. RBS do not dispute that Mr M didnt know 
about the £5000 default limit. However, this is the same for all customers. Also, RBS say the 
default worked as intended. So, as pointed out by the investigator, RBS didnt treat Mr M 
differently to other customers who would be in the same position. 
Although having this information is likely to have helped Mr M plan and amend his limit, the 
information was readily available prior to the day of the transaction. And, as described 
above, due to the size of the transaction, I feel it is reasonable for RBS to expect Mr M to 
have enquired or checked this. Also, Mr M couldve done this on the day of the transaction 
and the facility was there for him. 
So, I think RBS acted in a fair and reasonable way by offering £100 compensation for such a 
communication error. And, although I understand Mr Ms frustrations, considering all of the 
above, together with section 8.6 of RBSs Current Account Terms, I dont think it would be 
either fair or reasonable to ask RBS to cover Mr Ms losses here. And, I dont think they need to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman