DRN-3652644
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA)
What happened
Mr and Mrs A bought a holiday club membership from a business (Ill call them Business X) 
in 2003. This was paid for, at least in part, using a holiday ownership loan taken with First 
National (now GE Money). The loan was in joint names, but limited information is available 
beyond this.
Mr and Mrs A said the timeshare was misrepresented when they bought it  in particular, 
they were promised exclusivity and luxury in terms of the holidays and accommodation but 
didnt receive this. They said there were other problems with the sale which constituted an 
unfair relationship; they were pressured into the agreement, a proper affordability 
assessment wasnt carried out, and there was no mention of the interest rate.
Mr and Mrs A said that had they known what Business X said wasnt right, they wouldnt 
have taken out the membership in the first place.
In 2021, Mr and Mrs A (using a representative) raised a claim with GE Money under s.75 
and s.140A CCA. It responded to say it didnt have information on its systems about Mr and 
Mrs As loan due to the time that had passed. It said any information about the loan would 
have been destroyed around six years after it was settled. As the sale took place many 
years before the complaint, GE Money said that meant the complaint had been brought too 
late under the relevant provisions contained in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA).
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They agreed that the claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA had been brought  
too late, so they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the claim.
Mr and Mrs As representative responded to explain why they thought the complaint had 
been brought in time. In particular:
The ombudsman services jurisdiction is inquisitorial not adversarial.
The issues were concealed and so there has been a fraudulent misrepresentation 
under s.32 LA.
Mr and Mrs A werent made aware of any disadvantageous parts of their 
membership.
Their purchase was an unauthorised collective investment scheme (UCIS)
The investigator responded confirming this didnt change their opinion on the case and that 
any arguments about the product being a UCIS would be relevant to the merits of the s.140A 
claim which shed concluded was time-barred under the LA.
The complaint was passed to me for consideration by an ombudsman. On 30 June 2022 I 
issued a provisional decision explaining why I didnt intend to uphold this complaint. In 
summary I thought GE Money had acted fairly in declining Mr and Mrs As claims on the 
basis they were brought too late.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree, their representative repeated some points previously raised and 
added following points:
They referenced our services time limits as set out in the dispute resolution rules, 
specifically DISP 2.8.2. 
They say that under S.14A LA, Mr and Mrs A had three years to bring a claim from 
when they had the knowledge required. 
They think GE Money must have a record of their relationship with Mr and Mrs A.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and taking into account the responses to my provisional decision, Im not 
upholding this complaint. Ill explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. And 
I want to assure Mr and Mrs A that if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to 
us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Ill firstly address the points raised in relation to our dispute resolution rules (DISP), and 
more specifically DISP 2.8.2. For clarity, the rules cited set out the relevant timeframes that 
must be met in order for our service to be able to consider a complaint  in this case, it isnt 
in dispute that this complaint has been raised with our service in time. This is distinct from 
the timeframes Ill need to consider under the relevant law, such as the LA, as part of my 
consideration of whether GE Money has acted fairly in declining Mr and Mrs As claim. 
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs A say that Business X misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the 
timeshare agreement, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA. But if GE 
Money could show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it would 
be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim.
I should make it clear that Im not deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs A may have to bring 
these claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision Im 
considering if GE Money has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr and Mrs As 
claims. Im aware of our inquisitorial remit and think that its fair for me to take into account 
the LA in the circumstances as Im considering how GE Money has responded to a legal 
claim.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action brought for 
a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a claimant has a 
period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
Here Mr and Mrs A brought a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA. That claim was 
brought under the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 LA. Again, it means Mr and Mrs A had 
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to being a claim. I dont agree 
that the time limit should be twelve years, as Mr and Mrs A have proposed.
This isnt concerning a claim of actions on a speciality under s.8 LA, as explained this 
concerns an action recoverable by statute under s.9 LA which provides a period of six years 
to bring a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs As case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE 
Money. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in 
2003. It was at that time that they entered into an agreement based, they say, on the 
misrepresentations of Business X. They say, had the misrepresentations not been made, 
they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a loss, as 
they took out the loan agreement with First National.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in 2003, so Mr and Mrs A had six 
years from then to bring a claim. But they didnt try to contact GE Money about their claim 
until 2021, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So I think GE Money acted 
fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I 
think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
Our investigator considered whether Mr and Mrs A could have made a claim under s.140A 
CCA. S.140A CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. Schedule 3 of that Act 
sets out to what credit agreements s.140A CCA applies. In short, if a credit  agreement had 
completed before 6 April 2008, no claim under s.140A CCA could be brought in respect of 
that credit agreement.
GE Money hasnt been able to provide evidence of when Mr and Mrs As loan ended as it 
says it was closed some time ago and it doesnt have records that go that far back. I 
understand Mr and Mrs A think GE Money should have more records of their relationship 
with Mr and Mrs A, but Im not surprised given the time thats passed that little is available as 
there is no requirement for GE Money to keep records indefinitely. This means I cant be 
sure whether this provision applied to their credit agreement.
However, even if it did (i.e. if the loan was repaid after 6 April 2008). I think its likely they 
would still have brought this claim too late. This is because The LA applies to a claim under 
s.140A CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering 
s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the date that the credit agreement 
ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was made. As with an action under s.75 
CCA, the limitation period is six years.
The loan was taken out in 2003 and so given GE Money has no record of the loan I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs As agreement ended more than six years before they 
raised their claim in 2021. I note that Mr and Mrs A havent said that their agreement ended 
more recently than this or provided evidence to indicate that might be the case.
Mr and Mrs As arguments on limitation
Mr and Mrs As representatives made several arguments why they dont think the 
timeframes under the LA have been applied correctly. I will deal with each in term.
Ive been asked to consider s.14A LA, and having done so, Im not persuaded that applies to 
Mr and Mrs As claim. That provision provides for a second period in which a claim for 
negligence can be made. Looking at what happened, when Mr and Mrs A purchased the 
timeshare and took out the finance, I think there was an obligation to give Mr and Mrs A 
sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an informed choice 
about whether to take out the loan. But Im not persuaded a duty of care arose or advice was 
provided that could give rise to a claim to which s.14A LA could apply.
I have also been asked to consider s.32 LA, which states that in cases of fraud, concealment 
or mistake, the limitation period only starts to run from when a claimant discovers the fraud, 
concealment or mistake (or could have discovered it using reasonable diligence). But Mr and 
Mrs A havent explained how they think this applies to their claim that Business X 
misrepresented the nature and benefits of the timeshare. Based on what Ive seen so far, I 
cant see that there was any fraud, concealment or mistake. Mr and Mrs A have said they 
werent made aware of any disadvantageous parts of their membership, but they havent 
specified what was concealed from them. So, I dont think this applies in the circumstances.
Overall, I think GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claim was 
brought too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr and 
Mrs A may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as far as I 
can see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs A might have against the 
supplier and/or GE Money has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA . I think 
it is reasonable to take this into account in these circumstances. And I am not persuaded 
that GE Money acted unfairly in declining the claims.
Unaffordable lending
Mr and Mrs A say GE Money needed to do more to properly assess their creditworthiness. 
This assertion was framed as giving rise to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under 
s.140A. And Ive already explained why I think that claim is likely to fall outside of the time 
limit set by the LA.
But Ive also looked at whether our service can consider a complaint about unaffordable 
lending in its own right and I dont think we can. This is because lending money under a 
regulated credit agreement of the kind in question here wasnt an activity covered by our 
jurisdiction in 2003. So, I cant consider GE Moneys decision to lend any further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Stephanie MitchellOmbudsman