DRN-3645014
The complaint
Mrs V has complained about her car insurer Ageas Insurance Limited. Shes said her 
dashcam went missing when Ageas did some repairs, and its customer service was awful. 
What happened
Mrs V had an accident in September 2019. In 2021 she contacted Ageas as she was 
unhappy with the hire car she had been provided. She also told Ageas that her dashcam, left 
in her car when it went for repair, hadnt been returned to her. She said Ageas customer 
service was terrible.
When Mrs V contacted us, our Investigator discovered that the hire car problems had been 
related to a claim in 2018, and Ageas had issued a final response in respect of Mrs Vs 
concerns about that in 2018. So our Investigator told Mrs V that we couldnt look at that.
Mrs V said the customer service from Ageas had still been poor in 2019. She said people 
had been rude and hung up on her. She said she didnt receive promised call backs. Mrs V 
said it hadnt been made clear to her in 2019 that the hire car was not being provided by 
Ageas. She said her dashcam hadnt been returned, Ageas initially said it didnt think it had 
failed Mrs V in any of these respects. But, upon contact with our Investigator, it agreed to 
pay Mrs V to replace her dashcam. Payment was sent to Mrs V in this respect. 
Regarding Mrs V being put in contact with the hire car company, our Investigator felt Ageas 
had been clear. Mrs Vs concerns about Ageas customer service were considered too. It 
was felt that, overall, Ageas hadnt provided a poor service. Mrs V remained unhappy, so 
her complaint was passed for an ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our Investigator has explained, I cant look at what happened regarding the hire car in 
2018. And regarding what Ageas told Mrs V in 2019 about the hire car, I think it was clear 
that this was an option Mrs V could take but which wasnt provided by it under the policy.
Mrs V reported to Ageas that her dashcam hadnt been returned to her. Ageas has since 
paid Mrs V so she can replace her dashcam. Im satisfied that resolves that issue, so I wont 
make any further award in this respect. 
I know Mrs V has been upset and frustrated at times with Ageas, that she has felt its 
advisors werent listening to her, which meant she had to make more calls and stay on calls 
longer as a result. But, I dont think Ageass advisors generally handled things poorly. 
Theres only one call where I think things could have been handled better. But even during 
that call the handler remains polite. I think the handler shouldnt have spoken over Mrs V as 
she did. But I think the advisor was clearly trying to tell Mrs V something that Mrs V didnt 
want to hear. Mrs V wanted the advisor to guarantee a letter would be rewritten but the 
advisor told Mrs V she couldnt do that, although shed pass Mrs Vs concerns on. However, 
Mrs V kept trying to explain why she felt the advisor should agree to re-write the letter. The 
call did last a long time, but I think that was the natural result of each party having opposing 
views on which a compromise couldnt be reached. I dont think Ageas provided poor 
customer service during this call  although, as I said, the advisor should have performed 
better. And I trust Ageas will take that on board.
I realise that, in that call, Mrs V told Ageas she had only had to call back because a 
promised letter wasnt sent to her.  And I accept that the advisor acknowledges that the 
promised letter hadnt been sent. I appreciate that this was frustrating for Mrs V and, ideally 
the letter would have been sent to her as promised. Unfortunately, small errors like this 
sometimes result from the natural dealings of an insurer and its policyholder. An instance 
like this wouldnt, to me, equate to an insurer providing poor service that requires 
compensating for. And clearly, Mrs V wasnt only calling Ageas back because of the missed 
letter as she was also unhappy about the content of the letter she had received. 
Mrs V believes the letter she received from Ageas about her complaint shows it acted poorly 
towards her because it records that she had accepted it had resolved her query. Ageas 
handler explained to Mrs V that the real purpose of the wording is to log that Ageas has 
reached the end of its complaint process. But I see what Mrs V means  the letter suggests 
she has accepted the complaint is resolved, which is at odds with her then being able to 
refer her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Mrs V was clearly worried that the 
Ombudsman would be swayed by the sentence in the Ageas letter and this would affect her 
complaint. I can assure Mrs V that is not the case. And I think Ageas call handler was trying 
to explain as much but it just wasnt possible, by this point for the two of them to have an 
effective conversation on the matter.
With regret for any disappointment this may cause Mrs V, Im not going to require Ageas to 
pay her compensation, or to reimburse her call costs, on account of it having provided a poor 
service to her. Whist I realise Mrs Vs view on this is different, I simply dont think Ageas 
service was poor. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not requiring Ageas Insurance Limited to do or pay 
anything more in settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman