DRN-3643390
The complaint
Mr R has complained Revolut Ltd wont refund him for a disputed transaction made in 2021.
What happened
In 2021 Mr R opened an account with Revolut which he didnt immediately use. In 
September he complained to Revolut £1,000 had been paid into his account (from another of 
Mr Rs accounts) and then withdrawn. Hed not made or recognised these transactions.
Revolut reviewed the evidence and could see a passcode had been sent to Mr Rs genuine 
mobile phone which was then used to validate the payment. Mr R continued to say this 
hadnt been him.
As Mr R was unhappy with Revolut, he brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. 
Mr R confirmed hed reported this to Action Fraud and didnt understand why Revolut hadnt 
refunded the payment as he got in touch with them straightaway to confirm it wasnt him.
Our investigator reviewed the detailed evidence along with Mr Rs testimony. He specifically 
asked Mr R whether hed been the victim of a scam and been asked to send the money to 
another account. Mr R denied this had been the case. On the basis of the evidence that the 
IP address of this transaction matched IP addresses on another account Mr R used and the 
fact that Revolut had sent a passcode to Mr Rs phone, he told Mr R he wasnt going to ask 
Revolut to do anything further.
Still unhappy, Mr R has asked an ombudsman to decide his complaint. He also told us of 
what he thought were times when his phone may have been accessible by a third party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Rs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mr Rs case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Revolut and Mr R have told us.
We have a timeline of events which is the two disputed transactions on 23 September 2021. 
Mr R initially told us nobody else had access to his phone and he admitted receiving the 
passcode from Revolut in his customer chat with Revolut following him raising what 
happened.
Mr R has subsequently told us he had builders in his property at the time of the disputed 
transactions. He also had had his phone screen repaired shortly before this. He wonders 
whether that could show potential compromises. Ive considered this but overall I dont think 
so.
From all the evidence Ive seen there seems to have been no difficulty in accessing Mr Rs 
other bank account and his Revolut account authorising the payments. Im not sure how an 
unknown third party would have either known which accounts Mr R held with banks, and his 
log-in details. I also wonder why it was quite late in the day Mr R raised the possibility that 
his phone could have been compromised.
Overall I dont believe thats what happened. I think Mr R made and authorised the payments 
himself, as evidenced by the audit trails Ive seen. I can see that he immediately regretted 
doing so, for whatever reason, and tried to get Revolut to send the money straight back. 
They couldnt do this as Mr R made an immediate automated payment  and once properly 
authorised as Mr R did by using the passcode  this payment had gone and could not be 
recalled.
I believe theres a possibility Mr R was the victim of a scam and hes unwilling to admit this. 
His bank and our investigator have specifically asked Mr R this and he denied this was the 
case. So I cant be sure thats what happened here and make any decision which goes 
against what the evidence is showing. 
I think overall its more likely that Mr R has authorised the disputed transactions himself. I 
appreciate the depth of Mr Rs feelings on this issue, but I dont think the evidence matches 
what he is telling us. Im not going to ask Revolut to refund Mr R.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Rs complaint against 
Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman