DRN-3235723
The complaint
Mr F complains that Azimo Ltd (Azimo) didnt process a payment on time.  
What happened
 On 25 February 2021, Mr F instructed Azimo to send £25,000 in USD to a beneficiary in 
the USA. The rate quoted was 1.40912. The currency equivalent was USD35,213.92 (after 
a fee of £9.99). He sent £25,000 to Azimo from his bank account. On 26 February 2021, 
Azimo contacted Mr F to say his funds hadnt been received on time and as the rate had 
moved against him, the transfer couldnt be made. The payment was made later - on 26 
February 2021 at a different rate (1.39017)  and USD34,740.36 was sent (fee £9.99).
Mr F complained. He said Azimo had agreed and contracted to send USD35,213.92, not 
the lower amount. He had sent the money from his bank account immediately at 17.59 and 
so they shouldve had it in time. He also said that Azimo hadnt responded to his complaint 
within the allowed 15-day timeframe.
On 29 March 2021, Azimo told Mr F their terms and conditions said that the point at which 
the rate of exchange was set was when the money was received from Mr F. Their terms 
and conditions were on their website, and customers accept these when they register for 
an account with Azimo. Mr Fs money hadnt been received by them until 20.20 pm on 25 
February 2021  because they received payments in batches into their bank account. So, 
until they can match the funds with a currency exchange, it is designated awaiting funds. 
In Mr Fs case, the rate had moved a lot and so they decided not to make the transfer  as 
this wouldve meant a loss to them. Theyd advised him of this at 11.50 on 26 February 
2021. They apologised for not dealing with Mr Fs complaint within the 15-day window and 
offered compensation of £75 in cash.
Mr F brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that Azimos terms and conditions 
did cover what had happened. These were on Azimos website. And  Mr F had accepted 
these when he first registered with Azimo  even though he hadnt seen them at the point 
of transaction. So, he felt that Azimo had acted fairly. He noted that theyd agreed to pay
 compensation of £75 for not dealing with Mr Fs complaint in time. Mr F asked that his 
complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
I reached a first provisional decision where I said:
This is a finely balanced case, with valid arguments on both sides. Mr F has consistently 
argued his case. And while Azimo have followed their processes here, strictly following a 
procedure or process can lead to an unfair outcome for a customer in the individual 
circumstances of their situation. I think thats whats happened here.
Azimo say their terms and conditions allowed them to delay the currency deal until they 
had the funds from Mr F in their hands. They say: After you place a Transaction order via 
the Application, you will receive a confirmation in the Application. Please note that this 
does not mean that your order is accepted
7.2. A Transaction order constitutes solely an offer to buy our Service, which is subject to 
our discretionary acceptance. As part of the order, we will communicate the involved Fees 
and exchange rate. This does not yet constitute our acceptance. Such acceptance will be 
communicated to you either (i) via e-mail confirming that we are processing your request or
(ii) through a confirmation in the Application (hereinafter called "the Confirmation). The 
contract between you and us (hereinafter called ''the Contract') will only be formed when the 
Confirmation has been sent
I think the terms are a little ambiguous  Mr F received an email which said Your transfer of 
35213.92 USD to XXXX is awaiting payment. We will send you an email when the funds 
arrive. I think this could be interpreted as the Confirmation referred to in the terms and 
conditions.
But its beyond doubt that Azimo didnt have to complete the deal if currency rates moved  
the terms say: We reserve the right to refuse to perform a Transaction (including after 
Confirmation) ifWe are unable to process your Transaction due to variations in business 
hours, currency exchange or currency availability issues or due to any Force Majeure 
Event;
.
But  in the circumstances of this case, the key point is that I dont think Azimo acted fairly 
because their terms and conditions werent easily accessible to Mr F. They did not form 
part of the online currency order  for example, Mr F wasnt asked to confirm he accepted 
the terms and conditions when he clicked to confirm the deal. And they werent shown 
anywhere as part of the online purchase process. We asked Azimo about this and they 
confirmed this to be the case. Ive seen other foreign exchange businesses and banks  
that do provide this as part of the checkout process. Azimo argue that Mr F agreed to the 
terms and conditions when he first registered for his account; and that a link to them 
appears at the bottom of their website  but in all fairness, I dont think Azimo can rely on 
that here.
And  Ive looked at the text or email that Azimo sent to Mr F on 25 February 2021  this 
said Your transfer of 35,213.92 USD to XXXX is awaiting payment. We will send you an 
email when the funds arrive. This didnt say (as it could have) that the currency deal 
wasnt confirmed until the funds arrived  ink his transfer had been accepted, based on 
this message.
Looking at Azimos internal processes  they say they didnt get Mr Fs funds because of 
how their bank account batching system works  that they get blocks of funds released 
every few hours. But - I dont think thats Mr Fs problem.
I can see that Azimo didnt reply to Mr Fs complaint within the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys guideline of 15 days (for payments businesses)  and theyve apologised and 
offered compensation for £75 for this.
I would emphasise that this provisional decision is very much based on the circumstances 
of this case. But Im of the view that here, Azimo didnt act fairly and Mr F suffered an 
adverse outcome here.
So  my provisional decision is that Azimo must refund to Mr F the difference between 
the two amounts in question - USD473.26 at the rate of exchange on 26 February 
2021(1.40912), plus the compensation of £75 already offered.
Responses to the first provisional decision:Mr F didnt have any comments, but Azimo did. They brought forward some new 
information and points. They said:
Their terms and conditions link is shown on every email that a customer 
receives  so they are easily available.
Mr F was given the option not to proceed with the payment once theyd told 
him about the movement in exchange rate. He decided to go ahead with the 
transfer.
Azimos terms and conditions state that they do not process the payment until 
funds are received. The email sent to Mr F said that his transfer was awaiting 
payment. So
 this was clear. A further confirmation was then sent when the payment was made.
While their banking processes are not for Mr F to be concerned about, they 
consider the non-receipt of funds to be covered in their terms and conditions.
I considered this new information - and issued a second provisional decision which said:
Its part of our processes that parties to a complaint have a chance to comment on a 
provisional decision and bring forward new arguments and evidence. And  thats whats 
happened here. I think that Azimo have made some important points.
In particular  the fact that the terms and conditions link is on every email is important  as 
I wasnt aware of that before. And Id said that their limited availability was important in 
reaching my provisional decision.
Also  the fact that Mr F was given the chance to not make the payment  but decided to 
go ahead anyway  is also important. I can see Mr F said this in his complaint to us. In the 
email sent to him on 26 February 2021, Azimo said While we were waiting for your 
payment, the exchange rate you were first offered has changed and we are not able to 
complete the transfer..Of course, if you'd prefer, we can issue a full refund as well. And 
Mr F confirmed he wished to go ahead  while also raising a complaint about the 
movement in rate.
I also think that the email sent to Mr F was clear that the payment wasnt to be made
because the funds hadnt arrived.
As I said in my provisional decision, this was always a finely balanced complaint. But  I 
think that the new information that Azimo have brought forward changes my mind  and I 
now consider that Azimo acted fairly and therefore I am minded to not uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. But  Azimo will still pay compensation of £75 (for their delay in responding to 
his complaint) to Mr F if he wishes to receive this.
Azimo agreed with the second provisional decision. Mr F didnt agree. He said (in summary):
He said the rate hadnt dropped significantly by 8.20 pm in the evening of 25 
February 2021  and therefore Azimo werent justified in not making the transfer.
He couldnt access the terms and conditions on his phone as it took him to Azimos 
app, and not the terms and conditions.Azimo didnt contact him to say the transfer hadnt been made. 
The funds werent applied to the transaction due to an error by Azimo  as theyd 
said they couldnt match the sender of the money with the name of the account in 
their records. But  hed made similar transactions before without any problem, so 
this shouldnt have been an issue.
I now must make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Fs further points.
The rate had dropped by 0.019 by the morning of the following day  or about 1.34%. We 
dont know what the rate was when the funds were received by Azimo at 8.20pm the 
previous evening  but Azimo considered it significant enough to not make the transfer  as 
they were entitled to do in their terms and conditions. Ive considered whether its helpful to 
try to ascertain exactly what the rate was at that time -and then debate whether it could be 
considered as, for example, significant. But I dont think thats helpful  as this is a 
subjective term. And Azimos terms and conditions are wide and dont define when an 
exchange rate movement could be considered significant  they only say, currency 
exchange issues.  And so  any movement in rate, no matter how much, or how little, could 
be interpreted as giving Azimo the right to not make the transfer. And so  I dont agree with 
Mr F here.
Mr F says he couldnt access Azimos terms and conditions on his phone  its difficult to be 
precise on this aspect. We cant say with any certainty whether Mr F could or couldnt have 
accessed the terms and conditions on his phone in February 2021. But - we cant be sure 
what was possible then. And - he hasnt said he tried to do so at that time anyway. Azimo 
have argued that Mr F signed up to their terms and conditions when he opened his account 
with them  and thats also important. So  I dont agree with Mr F here.
Azimo have said that they didnt contact Mr F until the following morning, as this wasnt part 
of their operating procedures. I can see that this was frustrating for Mr F  but I dont think 
this is central to his main complaint about the movement in rate.
Azimo had wrongly told Mr F that the receipt of funds was delayed due to the need to match 
the sender with the name of the account with them. But I can see that they told Mr F that this 
was not the case  this wasnt the cause of the delay. In fact, their operating processes 
meant that they didnt get Mr Fs funds until 8.20pm in the evening  and at that point, the 
rate had moved and they took the decision not to make the transfer. The delay wasnt 
anything to do with the need to match.
I need to bring Mr Fs complaint to a conclusion  as in all honesty, we have taken a long 
time considering it  while asking more questions of Azimo and taking points from Mr F. I 
hope Mr F feels that his complaint has had full consideration  and I can see he feels very 
strongly about what happened. But, in the circumstances of his complaint, I am not awarding 
any further compensation to Mr F. Azimo have said that their offer of £75 still stands  and 
because Mr F hasnt accepted this, our service defines Mr Fs complaint as an uphold.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint.  Azimo Ltd must:
Pay compensation of £75 to Mr F.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman