DRN-2932037
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, has rejected their 
request to extend the term on their interest only mortgage. They are also unhappy that it was 
only willing to discuss this over the phone, rather than meeting in person or corresponding 
by email.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out an interest only mortgage with Halifax in February 2007. They 
borrowed £150,000 over a term of five years.
In July 2008 Mr and Mrs B borrowed a further £50,000 from Halifax on an interest only basis, 
over a term of four years. Application notes provided by Halifax explain that this borrowing 
was to purchase some land, separate to their existing property. The notes go on to say that it 
was Mr and Mrs Bs intention to build a new home on this land and then sell their existing 
property, to repay their mortgage. And Mr and Mrs B have confirmed this to be true.
In January 2009 Mr and Mrs B borrowed an additional £43,000 from Halifax. This was again 
on an interest only basis and was repayable after three years and six months. Halifaxs 
notes indicate this was again to help with the construction of their new property.
In December 2012 Mr and Mrs B asked to extend the term of their mortgage. An extension 
of the term of all their borrowing was agreed until February 2018. The borrowing remained 
on an interest only basis.
In March 2014 Mr and Mrs B requested a further extension to their mortgage term. This was 
again agreed by Halifax with the mortgage term now running until January 2021, with the 
borrowing again still on an interest only basis.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs B contacted Halifax again to discuss what was required to extend the 
mortgage term once more. They indicated they wanted to extend the term for another five 
years. Halifax referred Mr and Mrs B to its end of term team. This was a centralised team 
within Halifax. Mr and Mrs B indicated that theyd prefer to deal with matters in person, as 
Mrs B has a medical condition that impacts her hearing, or through email. But Halifax said it 
was only able to discuss matters over the phone.
Mr and Mrs B arranged to attend a Halifax branch in order to use the in-branch phone to 
speak to the end of term team. Theyve explained they were still dissatisfied with needing to 
do so and didnt feel theyd been treated fairly by Halifax refusing to use their preferred 
method of communication. 
A discussion with the end of term team took place. In this call Halifax said it was unwilling to 
agree a further extension to the existing term. And it said there were no other options 
available that it could offer Mr and Mrs B so suggested they seek independent financial 
advice.
Mr and Mrs B then raised a complaint with our service. They said they didnt think Halifax 
was acting fairly by not agreeing to extend the term of their mortgage  and indeed felt that 
its stance was at odds with what the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
indicated was expected. They were also unhappy with the customer service provided by 
Halifax and that it had not been possible to have a face to face discussion with an adviser.
One of our investigators considered matters but didnt think Halifax had done anything 
wrong. She noted that Halifax had already previously agreed to extend the term of the 
mortgage on two occasions, by a total of nine years. But it didnt appear any progress had 
been made towards the mortgage being repaid, or with the construction of their new 
property. So, she didnt think it was unreasonable that Halifax was unwilling to do so again. 
In terms of the customer service provided, she thought Halifax hadnt acted unreasonably.
Mr and Mrs B asked for their complaint to be reviewed. They didnt agree that Halifaxs 
position was fair. They said they were still working and could still afford repayments on an 
interest only basis, as they had for a number of years. So, they didnt think Halifax was being 
reasonable as they now stood to lose their home. They felt Halifax was taking an arbitrary 
and unfair position, potentially based on their age, and that it was not doing what the 
regulator required. They also mentioned that, if this position was fair perhaps its previous 
decision to agree an extension wasnt as, at that point, had they been turned down, they 
mightve had more options available to them elsewhere, as they were younger.
Mr and Mrs B also mentioned that they felt the mortgages might perhaps have been mis-sold 
to them based on what had happened recently.
Finally, they also didnt agree that theyd been treated fairly in terms of how Halifax had 
required them to discuss matters.
As Mr and Mrs B did not agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have suggested in their response to the investigators opinion that they now 
think their mortgage and further advances couldve been mis-sold as Halifax might not have 
done enough to think about how they would be repaid. This was the first time that these 
concerns have been mentioned and Halifax hasnt had the opportunity to respond to these 
issues. To clarify, I wont be looking into the sale of their mortgage and further advance here 
and whether there were any errors. If Mr and Mrs B still wish to pursue this matter, theyd 
need to raise a separate complaint with Halifax about this. If they were unhappy with 
Halifaxs response to that complaint, they could potentially then ask our service to look into 
the matter. But that again would be a separate complaint to the issues covered here. 
Turning to the complaint I am considering, there are two aspects to this complaint; Halifax 
not agreeing to Mr and Mrs Bs request for a further extension to their mortgage term, and it 
requiring all discussions around this to take place over the phone.
Ill deal with the decision in respect of the term extension request first. Id like to assure both 
parties that Ive read and considered everything that has been provided  even if I havent 
commented on each individual point directly.
Halifax has explained, its approach now, when an interest only mortgage is nearing the end 
of its term is, in order for it to agree to extend the term of the mortgage it would need to be satisfied that Mr and Mrs B could afford it on a repayment basis or that there was a definite 
repayment vehicle in place. And it doesnt think Mr and Mrs B can afford the mortgage on a 
repayment basis or that there is a firm repayment vehicle in place.
So, in essence, Halifaxs reasons for not agreeing to the term extension are largely on the 
basis of affordability and the existence of a suitable repayment vehicle. The FCA previously 
carried out a Mortgage Market Review (MMR). This led to a series of major changes, 
effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have 
brought about requirements for stricter lending assessments, aimed to protect consumers 
and encourage mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. The FCA recognised though that 
existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their mortgages might have difficulties 
with this if they passed tests under the old rules but not under the new ones. So, it 
introduced certain rules to address this. Amongst other things, the rules said lenders could 
set aside new requirements around affordability assessments and the assessment of the 
suitability of a repayment vehicle for interest-only mortgages, in certain circumstances, if the 
change being requested to a mortgage was in the customers best interests.
Its important to note, though, that these rules dont oblige lenders to make changes to 
mortgages. They merely say that changes dont have to be refused  if the criteria are met  
on grounds of affordability or interest only repayment strategy. Changes can still fairly be 
refused on other grounds. Mr and Mrs B have said that Halifax is not doing what the 
regulator, the FCA, would expect. And have provided a copy of correspondence from the 
FCA where it said it would expect firms to help consumers who are at the end of their terms 
and may have to extend these. But again, while I agree that Id expect a business to look to 
help consumers reaching the end of the term, that doesnt mean they are obliged to extend a 
term on request without considering the individual circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs B have also said they think Halifax might be treating them unfairly because of 
their age. But as Ill go on to explain, I think Halifax has considered their individual 
circumstances in full  which is what I would expect it to do.
Mr and Mrs B have also questioned whether, given its stance in relation to their recent 
request, Halifax shouldve agreed to their previous requests for term extensions. Ultimately, 
Halifax agreeing to term extensions in 2012 and 2014 meant Mr and Mrs B have not been 
required to repay the borrowing significantly earlier. And I dont think Halifaxs decision not to 
allow a term extension now means their previous decisions were incorrect.
Mr and Mrs Bs request for a term extension now would appear to meet the criteria for 
Halifax to be allowed to set aside the new, stricter, tests set by the FCA in relation to 
affordability and repayment vehicles. But I think Halifax is still entitled to consider 
affordability and what repayment vehicle is in place, when thinking about whether a request 
is actually in a customers best interests overall. And I think it also fair, where it has provided 
a mortgage with the expectation of this being repaid by a set time, for it to take account of 
this when deciding whether to agree to a term extension. 
I dont think what Halifax has said about Mr and Mrs B being able to afford the mortgage on 
a repayment basis is unreasonable. Mr and Mrs B are both beyond the state pension age. 
Theyve explained that they run a business together, they dont intend to retire - the nature of 
their work is such that they can continue working  and believe there will be sufficient work 
for them to continue to make repayments in line with what they are paying at the moment. 
But based on the level of borrowing still outstanding, a repayment mortgage over a five-year 
term  the length of the extension to the interest only mortgage being requested  would 
require monthly repayments several thousand pounds more than what they currently pay.
Turning to whether there is a definite repayment vehicle, again I dont think Halifaxs view is unreasonable. 
Mr and Mrs B have said that they would like a five-year extension as this will allow them to 
remain in their current property and continue to work, as it is well positioned to service their 
existing clients. Their intention is to build a new property on the parcel of land they now own, 
move into that and sell their existing property in order to repay the borrowing.
Im conscious though that this appears to have been their repayment strategy for a 
significant period of time already. Notes from the application for the further advances in 2008 
and 2009 both explain that this was Mr and Mrs Bs intention for repaying the mortgage. And 
theyve confirmed that the parcel of land was purchased around 2008, using the money from 
the further advance. And this repayment vehicle still hasnt been realised, despite Halifax 
having agreed two term extensions, totalling nine years in the time since.
Mr and Mrs B have explained that there were several reasons for this. Clearance of the land 
and obtaining relevant permissions took time. Theyve also said that there were downturns in 
their industry following the financial crisis and again since  impacting the amount of money 
they were able to put aside / put towards the construction of the new property. And what they 
have said is reasonable. But at the same time, given that the repayment vehicle has not 
come to pass for such a significant period of time, I also think its reasonable for Halifax to 
have doubts over whether it would be realised in the next five years, if it granted the 
requested extension.
So, I think it is reasonable for Halifax to question whether the extension to the term Mr and 
Mrs B requested is in their best interests. I know it is what Mr and Mrs B would prefer  but 
that doesnt necessarily mean it is what is best. And there is no guarantee, after those five 
years ran their course, their position would be any better. If the term were extended for five 
years, theyd be required to make mortgage payments for another five years, at least at a 
similar level to what they pay currently  so theyd be incurring a significant cost. Theyve 
said they think they can make these repayments, but their circumstances may change. 
Indeed theyve mentioned previous downturns in respect of the industry that they work in. 
And again, it isnt just a matter of whether they can make these repayments  its whether its 
in their best interest to incur the costs.
In addition, as is always the case, property markets are subject to fluctuation, and there is a 
risk that their existing property could decrease in value over that time, leaving them in a 
worse position than they are now. This is particularly important given that the sale of their 
existing property is essentially their method of repaying the mortgage. Construction of their 
new property could also encounter further delays or impediments. And, while it might be their 
aim to have a new property to move into in a further five years time, that seems to have 
been their intention since 2008, yet it has still not happened. 
So, while I know Mr and Mrs B do not agree, I dont think an extension of the term as they 
have requested is necessarily in their best interests. 
And on top of this, as I mentioned, Halifax is reasonably entitled to expect the money it lent 
to Mr and Mrs B to be repaid. They borrowed on the understanding theyd need to pay the 
money back. And the original agreement was that this would be done by 2012. Halifax has 
agreed to extend the date for repayment on two previous occasions for a period of nine 
years, with the position being largely unchanged since.
Taking everything into account, I think Halifax has fairly considered Mr and Mrs Bs request 
for a term extension but decided, ultimately, that it was unwilling to agree. And I dont think 
this was unreasonable. Halifax has said, while the options it can provide to customers at the end of an interest only 
mortgage are limited, it can look into a retirement interest only mortgage. This is essentially 
a mortgage on interest only terms continuing until all named borrowers either pass away or 
move into residential care, and the mortgage is repaid from the sale of the property. Halifax 
has said it has set criteria around when it is willing to consider this  which I dont find 
unreasonable. One of these criteria is that the mortgage is below a certain level when 
compared to the value of the property  known as the loan to value. And when Mr and Mrs B 
previously spoke to it about their options, their mortgage was above this level and they 
werent able to reduce it enough to be considered for this.
Mr and Mrs B have told our service recently that they are now potentially in a position to 
reduce the principal balance further than they were before. With that in mind, it might be 
worth them revisiting with Halifax whether a retirement interest only mortgage is a possible 
solution. And Id expect Halifax to proactively contact them to discuss this following my 
decision. I would just add though there are other criteria for such a mortgage, which Halifax 
is entitled to require to be met before agreeing.
If this is still not an option, I think Halifaxs suggestion that Mr and Mrs B may wish to seek 
independent advice is also reasonable. 
I understand that the mortgage term has now expired. So, I would also just add that Id 
expect Halifax to allow Mr and Mrs B some time to explore the options they have available to 
redeem the mortgage before it commences any kind of collections activity.
The other issue Mr and Mrs B have complained about is Halifax requiring them to speak to 
their end of term team over the phone and not agreeing to a face to face meeting.
I dont think it is unreasonable that Halifax have a specific team whose role it is to discuss 
options with interest only mortgage customers where their term is ending. And I also dont 
think it is unreasonable that this is a centralised team within the business. Mr and Mrs B 
have said they think it is unacceptable that branch based mortgage advisers are not trained 
to hold these discussions. But I dont agree. Halifax is entitled, as are all businesses, to 
decide how they structure their business model and processes.
Mr and Mrs B have also questioned why Halifax will not allow them to contact the relevant 
team via email. Halifax has indicated it doesnt think this is a secure method of 
communication and isnt something that is part of their business model. While I dont doubt 
this is frustrating for Mr and Mrs B, again I think this is a decision Halifax is entitled to take.
Mr and Mrs B have explained that they would have preferred to deal with matters face to 
face or to correspond via email for health reasons. And I can see they told Halifax about this. 
So, Id reasonably expect it to think about what it could do to help. But that doesnt mean it 
necessarily has to act in the way Mr and Mrs B specifically requested  as long as the 
alternative it offered was reasonable. 
Halifax has said, while it still required any discussion with its end of term team to be 
telephone based, this can be done from a branch. I understand Mr and Mrs B carried out a 
call in this manner but still found it difficult when communicating. Halifax has said that Mr and 
Mrs B can also ask someone to represent them on the phone and relay information to them. 
While I know Mr and Mrs B may not be happy with this suggested solution, I dont think it is 
unreasonable. So, I dont think Halifax has acted unfairly in how it dealt with matters 
previously. I would though expect it to be conscious of how it deals with matters moving 
forward and think about whether there are any other communication channels, possibly that 
have become established since the onset of the pandemic, that might be more helpful for Mr 
and Mrs B moving forward.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman