DRN-3635949
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) have failed to refund £5,000 he lost as 
part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr Y authorised the disputed payments he made to Luno Money (a 
cryptocurrency exchange platform) from his Santander account, where his funds were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammer (MCM) from his crypto wallet. The 
payments were requested by him using his legitimate security credentials provided by 
Santander, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given 
by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Santander should have done more to prevent Mr Y 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
It isnt in dispute that the payments Mr Y made on 29 September 2020 were unusual 
given that they did trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and were automatically 
blocked pending further enquiry. Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank 
went far enough in all the circumstances with that intervention.
After the payments flagged as unusual, Santander says it asked Mr Y to confirm the 
payments were genuine. Mr Y doesnt recall being asked to do this, and the bank has not 
been able to provide a copy of any call recording or text messages, so it isnt possible to 
say whether its intervention went far enough or even happened. But in any event, based 
on the notes Santander has provided, simply asking the consumer to verify the payment 
as genuine would not constitute an adequate intervention in light of the payment being 
flagged as suspicious.
However, even if Santander did ask further probing questions about the nature of the 
payments Mr Y was making, Im not persuaded it would have likely stopped him from 
proceeding or have ultimately prevented his loss. 
Mr Y said he had been dealing with MCM for some months prior to making the payments 
from his Santander account and had already made payments to them from other 
accounts. He said he had looked online and found no evidence of negative reviews 
about the broker, so did not feel he had anything to be concerned about. Mr Y also said 
there were no warnings on the FCA website about MCM at the time that he checked, and 
said they were even FCA registered and had a certificate number (albeit this was 
seemingly for a legitimate firm the broker had cloned), such that there was no reason for 
him to believe it wasnt a genuine company. 
I appreciate than an FCA warning has since been issued about the clone MCM. But it 
appears that this was after Mr Y had completed his checks. So, even if Santander had 
intervened appropriately and provided Mr Y with a scam warning, Im not persuaded this 
would have exposed the scam as he had already completed his checks and was 
satisfied that the broker was a legitimate company. Mr Y has said himself that there was 
nothing negative about the merchant online when he was conducting his research, and 
he had already made payments to the merchant before from other accounts. Therefore, I 
dont think Santanders failure to intervene appropriately and ask probing questions can 
reasonably be considered as the proximate cause of Mr Ys loss in these circumstances, 
as it seems likely he would have proceeded to make the payments irrespective of any 
intervention by the bank.
Ive also thought about whether Santander could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr Y reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via 
the bank raising an indemnity with the receiving bank. However, in these circumstances, 
Mr Y transferred money to his own crypto wallet before the funds were subsequently 
transferred on to the scammer. As a result, no funds would have remained in his crypto 
wallet for the bank to recover, so I dont think there was anything further Santander could 
have done to recover the funds. 
Santander are also under no obligation to refund the money to Mr Y under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as the Code does not apply to 
payments which the payer has effectively made to themselves (which would have been 
the case here given the payment was made to Mr Ys crypto wallet with Luno Money 
before being moved on to the scammer). 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr Y, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Santander can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman