DRN-3209315
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Bamboo Limited lent irresponsibly to him.
What happened
Mr M was given a guarantor loan of £5,000 in January 2019. The loan was repayable over 
60 months with monthly repayments of around £197. If the loan ran to term, the total amount 
repayable including interest was just over £11,825. I understand the loan is still outstanding.
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint but didnt think Bamboo had been 
wrong to provide Mr M with the loan. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment.  As 
the complaint has not been settled, it has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans on our 
website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Bamboo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr M irresponsibly.  
I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Bamboo carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Bamboo make a fair lending decision?
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way?
Bamboo was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment (and a similar 
assessment on the guarantor). This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Bamboo had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr M. 
The existence of a guarantee and the potential for Bamboo to pursue the guarantor instead 
of Mr M for the loan payments didnt alter, lessen, or dilute this obligation. 
Bamboo had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Bamboo had 
to do, but it could take into account a number of different things such as the loan amount, the 
length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial 
circumstances. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments, and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Mr M. 
Bamboo asked Mr M for information about his income and it acquired a credit report and a 
payslip. Bamboo says the checks it carried out before it agreed to lend to Mr M were 
reasonable and proportionate. Bamboo says it used ONS data to calculate Mr Ms regular 
outgoings and it took into account his outstanding credit. Bamboo concluded that the loan 
was affordable for Mr M. On the face of it, it would seem that Mr M had sufficient disposable 
income to afford the loan. 
I have seen a summary of the information that Bamboo gathered at the time. Mr Ms credit 
report showed he had 2 active accounts, no defaults in the previous 3 years and no CCJs. 
One of the loans appears to have had around three months left to pay and the other had 
longer. Bamboo says Mr M said he was intending to use his loan to consolidate some of his 
debt. Mr M says the reason for the loan was Other. From what Ive seen, I dont think there 
was anything in the credit report that Bamboo acquired that ought reasonably to have given 
the lender any additional concerns about Mr Ms financial position or suggested that he had 
an especially poor credit history. On balance, I dont think that it was unreasonable for 
Bamboo to rely on the checks it had carried out and the information it had gathered.
Mr M thinks Bamboo should have requested his bank statements (which he has provided) 
and that if it had done so, it would have seen that he had other outgoings including car 
finance and other lending and that the loan was unaffordable for him. 
From what Ive see, I dont think the information that Bamboo gathered ought reasonably to 
have prompted it to request Mr Ms bank statements. But nevertheless I have reviewed Mr 
Ms bank statements for the period leading up to his loan. Different checks might show 
different things. But from what Ive seen, even if Bamboo had requested Mr Ms bank 
statements, I cannot fairly say that I think it ought reasonably to have come to the conclusion 
that it should decline his application for the loan.
In the three months leading up to the loan Mr Ms bank account remained in credit. I can see 
that he was repaying some additional lending and he had some outgoings he may not have 
discussed with Bamboo.  But there doesnt appear to be frequent borrowing from multiple 
short-term lenders or other indications which might have signalled to Bamboo that Mr M was 
experiencing severe financial difficulties - such as frequently returned requests for payment 
or high bank charges for an unarranged or arranged overdraft.  Overall, I dont think Bamboo 
would reasonably have thought that Mr Ms bank account was showing significant signs of 
financial distress.Even if Bamboo had taken Mr Ms additional lending and outgoings into account, I dont think 
there is sufficient evidence that his financial position was so poor that Bamboo ought 
reasonably to have come to the conclusion that the loan would most likely be unaffordable 
for him, or that he would be unable to meet his monthly loan repayments on a sustainable 
basis. In the circumstances, I cannot fairly say that I think Bamboo ought reasonably to have 
concluded that Mr M was having such difficulties managing his finances that it would be 
irresponsible to lend to him. 
Mr M has complained that Bamboo has treated him unfairly in other ways. But from what Ive 
seen, Bamboo offered to defer his loan repayments when Mr M told Bamboo he was 
struggling financially as a result of covid 19 and it also offered to reduce his loan by around 
six months payments. Mr M says he thinks these offers show that Bamboo agrees the loan 
was unaffordable for him. But I cant fairly say that l consider this to be the case and I 
havent seen anything which makes me think Bamboo has treated Mr M unfairly in other 
ways.
I am sorry if Mr M has experienced financial difficulties. I know Mr M will be disappointed by 
my decision, but I would like to reassure him I have carefully considered everything that both 
he and Bamboo have told us. Having done so, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Bamboo Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman