DRN-2598957
The complaint
Dr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money he lost when he fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
On 16 March 2021, I issued a provisional decision on Dr Ss complaint. In this, I explained 
why, based on what I had seen so far, I wasnt intending to uphold this complaint. I wanted 
to give both parties a chance to respond to my findings. 
I have copied my provisional decision below and it forms part of this final decision;
What happened
In July 2018, Dr S fell victim to a scam.
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred as follows.
Dr S received calls from a company asking him if he would like to make an investment, Ill
refer to this company as C. Dr S has said he initially resisted Cs approaches a number of
times. Dr S was then shown a website and Cs online trading platform. Dr S was persuaded
to make an initial investment of £250, which he funded through a credit card.
Dr S has said he would receive calls from C to discuss trades and that he saw the
investment grow to a substantial figure. But when he asked for some money to be returned,
Dr S has said C sent small amounts, but he then received £1,500. Dr S said this fooled him
into believing this was real and it gained his trust, but unknown to him at the time this was a
scam.
Believing things to be genuine, Dr S decided to invest more and made an international
transfer of £9,000 from his HSBC account, which he made through online banking on 30 July
2018. Dr S has explained he also made other investments to C, which were partly funded
through other crypto currency he held.
Having made the payment for £9,000, Dr S has said he continued to see his investment
grow on the online platform, but then the platform disappeared. Dr S has said he was calling
C every day, but it was difficult to get hold of them and then they completely disappeared. At
this point Dr S realised hed been scammed.
On realising something wasnt right Dr S contacted HSBC on 4 December 2018 to report the
scam. HSBC contacted the receiving bank, but it was unable to recover any funds.
Dr S complained to HSBC, he was unhappy that his funds didnt go to the company he
thought he was doing business with. He also said the receiving bank had been taken over by
Danish regulators and many of its services suspended. Dr S feels the transaction should
have been flagged by HSBCs security as unusual and high risk. Dr S said the fraud has
caused him financial difficulties and undue stress.
HSBC looked into Dr Ss complaint and issued its final response on 29 May 2019. It didnt
uphold Dr Ss complaint, it said that when Dr S raised the scam with it, it had tried to recover
the funds from the receiving bank, but had been unable to do so. It added that it had a duty
to act on Dr Ss instruction and overall it couldnt provide a refund.
Dr S then brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into
things. Our investigator upheld Dr Ss complaint. He thought the payment Dr S made for
£9,000 was unusual, compared to the usual activity on the account. He said while it wasnt
unusual for Dr S to make an international payment, it was unusual for him to make one for
£9,000 and the other payments had all be made to the same company, a well-known trading
platform. Due to this he said he would have expected HSBC to have contacted Dr S to ask
questions about the payment. Our investigator thought, had this happened, Dr S would have
re-considered making the payment and ultimately wouldnt have then gone ahead with the it.
Dr S agreed with our investigators opinion. HSBC disagreed with our investigators view. In
summary it said expecting it to flag every such transaction and contact the customer would
cripple the effective operation of the banking system. And that it couldnt be properly
concluded that even if the payment had of flagged it would have made a difference. It also
felt Dr S had failed to take appropriate steps and there had been no consideration of
contributory negligence.
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. Having reviewed the case I sent my
initial thoughts to Dr S, explaining that I was minded to reach a different outcome to our
investigator. In summary, I didnt think the payment for £9,000 was particularly unusual
compared to the normal account activity, so I didnt think I could fairly say HSBC ought to
have intervened. In view of this I explained to Dr S that I was minded not to uphold his
complaint.
Dr S disagreed with my initial thoughts. He said previous large transactions on his account
were all made to builders/suppliers when his house was being renovated, he added they
were all made to UK accounts. He said that the other crypto currency payments he had
made were to a highly reputable company with a long track record, which he had been
dealing with for the last year. Dr S said deposits to the other company were quite small, in
comparison to the fraudulent transaction, which was almost double.
Dr S added that the transaction only did not clear a significant portion of his balance, due to
him having borrowed a large amount for his house renovation, which was in his account and
gave a false impression. Overall, he thought the payment of £9,000 was uncharacteristic
because it went to an unknown entity who were not FCA registered, it went to a foreign
account, was for a large sum and was as the result of being cold called. Dr S has said if
HSBC had asked him about this transaction it would have triggered his senses, as although
C had gained his trust, he still had his doubts. Dr S feels HSBC failed to recognise the
uncharacteristic transaction and failed to flag this.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Dr S, and I can understand entirely why he feels so
strongly that this money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully aboutHSBCs actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave Dr Ss
account. I also dont think it could have done any more than it did to try and recover the
money.
So having considered everything, Im not intending to uphold Dr Ss complaint. I do
appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly say HSBC
should reimburse him the money he has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
The Payments Services Regulations 2017 states that Dr S is liable for any transactions that
he has authorised or consented to. So, although Dr S didnt intend the money to go to the
fraudster, under the relevant regulations, and the terms and conditions of his account, Dr S
is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
-In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with
Dr S, when Dr S made a transfer to a fraudster and when he reported the fraud, or whether it
should have done more than it did.
Dr S has accepted that he authorised the transfer himself. Because of this, HSBC had an
obligation to follow his instruction. But there are some situations in which it should
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as Ive
explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice HSBC shouldve been on the lookout
for unusual and out of character transactions.
So, Ive first thought about whether the transfer Dr S made was out of character and
unusual. To decide this, Ive reviewed the typical pattern of Dr Ss account usage, by
reviewing his account history in the twelve months prior to the scam. This is often a finely
balanced matter, and HSBC has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems
to detect unusual activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk offraud.
On balance, I cant fairly say that the transaction was so unusual or suspicious in
comparison to Dr Ss normal account activity, that it ought to have alerted HSBC that Dr S
was at risk of financial harm. Dr S regularly made (legitimate) transactions of over £1,000 in
the twelve months before the scam, including several payments over £4,000 and ranging up
to £20,000  hed also made international payments for over £4,000.
Ive thought carefully about what Dr S has said, in that he considers the payment was
unusual and that the large transactions and large balance gave a false impression. But I
have to consider the account activity in the round and on balance, the payment for £9,000
didnt look particularly unusual or out of character to me  it looked much like his typical
account usage. And although Dr S has explained the funds in the account were for
renovation work, this doesnt take away that the payment didnt clear a significant portion of
the account balance, which can be an identifier of the potential risk of fraud. Overall, I dont
consider the payment was so out of character, in comparison to how the account was
typically run, that I could fairly or reasonably have expected HSBC to have had concerns
and to have intervened and had a conversation with Dr S before allowing the payment to be
made.
It follows that I dont think HSBC was wrong to allow Dr S to make this transaction without
questioning him about it. There isnt enough here for me to think HSBC should have
suspected Dr S might be about to fall victim to a fraud.
Ive gone on to think about whether HSBC did what it shouldve done once Dr S reported to it
that hed been the victim of a scam. Ive looked into the attempts HSBC made to recover the
money, once Dr S reported the scam. In order for me to be able to fairly ask HSBC to refund
the money to Dr S, I need to be satisfied that HSBC should have acted sooner in trying to
recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to decide whether it
made any difference.
In this case I can see HSBC raised the claim against the receiving bank when Dr S reported
the scam to it, but the response from the receiving bank was that no funds remained to be
returned. So, HSBC wasnt able to recover the money Dr S had paid the fraudster. From
what Ive seen, Im persuaded HSBC did what it should have and didnt miss an opportunity
to recover any funds.
Alongside this, Ive thought about what Dr S said about the funds not being sent to the
company who he thought he was doing business with. At the time the payment was made,
the relevant regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSR 2017) set out that
payments are sent according to unique identifiers (typically the account number and sort
code).
In particular, section 90 of the PSR 2017 states:
(1) Where a payment order is executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the
payment order is deemed to have been correctly executed by each payment service
provider involved in executing the payment order with respect to the payee specified
by the unique identifier
The impact of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went to the account
number and sort code instructed by the payer. There was no regulatory requirement for
HSBC to check the beneficiary account any further. So I cant fairly say that HSBC didnt
follow Dr Ss instruction when it sent the payment to the account number and sort code
provided, and I am not persuaded it should have done more to check the beneficiary namein the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Dr Ss disappointment that Im not upholding this complaint, especially as our
investigator had recommended a different outcome. But we operate a two-stage process.
That is if either party  Dr S or HSBC - was unhappy with our investigators opinion they
could appeal it to an ombudsman. And thats what happened in this case. And, in every case
I look at I consider all the evidence independently. I then come to my own conclusions about
what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome, this can on occasions be different to
the view of investigators, as is the case here.
I am sorry that Dr S has lost this money, to what is a cruel and highly sophisticated scam.
But for the reasons Ive explained I cant fairly or reasonably ask HSBC to refund the money
Dr S has sadly lost.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont intend to uphold Dr S, Dr S and Dr Ss complaint
against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Dr S and HSBC both confirmed receipt of my provisional decision, but neither party 
responded with any further information they wanted me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions I indicated in my provisional decision. Im sorry to have to disappoint   
Dr S, but I remain of the view that this complaint shouldnt be upheld for the reasons set out 
in my provisional decision
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and within my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Dr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman