DRN-4260993
The complaint
Mr C and Miss H complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE wont pay their travel insurance 
claim and about its service.
What happened
Mr C and Miss H had a single trip travel insurance policy, Great Lakes was the insurer. Their 
flight from a UK airport to Frankfurt airport was delayed due to a shortage of cabin crew staff. 
Due to the delay they missed their connecting flight from Frankfurt to an Asian country which 
resulted in a 24 hour delay until they could take the next flight to the Asian country. Mr C and 
Miss Hs luggage didnt arrive until the day after they arrived in the Asian country so they say 
they were without their luggage for three days.
Mr C and Miss H claimed on the policy for an unused nights accommodation, additional 
expenses incurred whilst waiting for the flight to the Asian country and for the additional 
expenses incurred due to the delayed luggage.
Great Lakes declined the travel delay claim. It said the policy didnt cover the circumstances 
of Mr C and Miss Hs delay. It accepted Mr C and Miss Hs concerns that it delayed in 
assessing the claim and apologised. It made no comment on the delayed baggage claim.
Mr C and Miss H complained to us. In summary they said:
Great Lakes wasnt fair to say the policy didnt cover the claim. Travel insurance was 
there to cover their situation and losses. They want Great Lakes to pay the claim.
Great Lakes gave poor customer service. They made the claim on 1 August 2022 
and complained on 30 September due to the lack of response but Great Lakes only 
gave a final response on 17 November 2022.
Our investigator said Great Lakes had unfairly declined the travel delay claim and hadnt 
commented on the baggage delay claim. She recommended it reassess the travel delay 
claim, assess the baggage delay claim within four weeks and pay interest on any settlement. 
She also recommended Great Lakes pay Mr C and Miss H £100 for their distress and 
inconvenience due to its poor service.
Mr C and Miss H accepted our investigators recommendation. Great Lakes didnt respond 
so the complaint came to me to decide.
Before I made my provisional decision I asked Great Lakes to send us the Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID), which gives a summary of the main coverage and 
exclusions in the policy, which Great Lakes provided.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to uphold the complaint. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
Im intending to uphold this complaint but for different reasons than our investigator gave, 
with a slightly different outcome.
Mr C and Miss H say travel insurance must cover the unfortunate situation they were in 
when they travelled. But travel insurance doesnt cover every situation a consumer may find 
themselves in. The policy terms and conditions set out the events and risks an insurer wants 
to insure and the insurer needs to apply those terms fairly and reasonably.
The claim Mr C and Miss H made relates to two separate sections of their policy.
The Travel delay and abandonment section of the policy is relevant to their claim for travel 
delay. That section says:
This section of the Policy sets out the cover We provide to each Insured Person in 
total per Insured Journey, up to the sums insured shown in the Table of Benefits, in 
the event of Your unavoidable delay in departure of at least 12 hours from Your 
original scheduled departure time from Your first departure point on Your outward 
journey or Your last departure point on Your return journey as a result of:
1. Adverse weather conditions (but not those defined as a Catastrophe).
2. Strike or Industrial Action.
3. Mechanical breakdown of the Public Transport on which You are booked to travel.
4. Cancellation by the transport provider of Your scheduled pre-booked international 
flight, ferry, train or coach.
Great Lakes said the policy didnt cover the circumstances of Mr C and Miss Hs travel delay 
claim. Our investigator said there was cover under the policy as in effect the scheduled flight 
from the UK had been cancelled.
I dont think the policy terms do cover the circumstances of the claim. The policy says theres 
cover for unavoidable delay in departure of at least 12 hours from Your original scheduled 
departure time from Your first departure point (my emphasis) on Your outward journey. 
The claim form Mr C and Miss H completed said the delay at the UK airport was only 1 hour 
and 5 mins. As the UK airport was the first departure point on the outward journey the 
relevant delay for the policy cover was under 12 hours.
Mr C and Miss Hs 24 hours delay was with the connecting flight at Frankfurt. As that delay 
wasnt at the first departure point for Mr C and Miss Hs outward journey I think Great Lakes 
was correct to say theres no cover for the travel delay claim under the policy terms.
But I also have to consider whats fair and reasonable. We think the limitation for travel delay 
cover to just the first departure point is a significant restriction on cover which should be 
clearly highlighted in the policy documentation. Thats because its common for travellers to 
use connecting flights so the restriction should be made sufficiently prominent to a 
consumer.
Ive havent seen any evidence that the restriction on the travel delay cover was clearly 
highlighted to Mr C and Miss H in the IPID or the policy document. I think that disadvantaged 
Mr C and Miss H as they only bought this single trip policy to cover this one trip. If the 
restriction on the cover had been clearly highlighted I think its probable they would have 
bought another policy which would have covered delays for connecting flights as they knew 
they had connecting flights for this trip.
As I havent seen any evidence that the restriction on cover was clearly highlighted to Mr C 
and Miss H I dont think its fair for Great Lakes to use that restriction on cover to decline the 
claim.Great Lakes has also said that the policy doesnt cover flight delay due to staff shortages. Its 
correct in saying that the policy doesnt specifically cover delays due to staff shortages. But 
I think in these circumstances it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to consider 
that the scheduled flight from the UK airport was in effect cancelled by the airline, which is 
covered.
Great Lakes should reassess the claim for travel delay, without reference to the restriction 
that the delay has to be at the first departure point, and subject to the remaining policy terms 
and conditions. The policy sets out the benefits and costs that are covered under the travel 
delay section so its fair to tell Mr C and Miss H that everything they claimed for may not be 
covered.
The Baggage delay on outward journey section of the policy is the section relevant to Mr C 
and Miss Hs baggage delay claim. The section says:
This section of the Policy sets out the cover We provide to each Insured Person in 
total per Insured Journey, up to the sum insured shown in the Table of Benefits 
following the delayed arrival of Your baggage by at least 12 hours, and for each 
subsequent 12 hours, after Your actual arrival time on Your outward journey.
What is covered
The reasonable cost of buying essential clothing, toiletries and similar items.
Great Lakes didnt comment on whether or not it would accept Mr C and Miss Hs baggage 
delay claim. Our investigator recommended that it reassess the claim within four weeks of 
that recommendation. The four weeks passed some time ago and Ive seen no evidence that 
Great Lakes has reassessed the claim.
I think from what Mr C and Miss H have said that they didnt receive their baggage until at 
least 12 hours after they arrived in the Asian country. So I think an insured event under this 
policy section happened. Given Great Lakes delay in assessing the baggage delay claim its 
reasonable for me to say it should pay the claim subject to the policy terms and conditions, 
plus interest as Ive detailed below.
As to Great Lakes service, Mr C and Miss H are unhappy with Great Lakes delay in 
assessing their claim. Great Lakes received the claim on 3 August 2022 and responded 
declining the travel delay claim on 2 September 2022. Great Lakes apologised that it hadnt 
assessed the claim as quickly as it would have wanted to, which I think was a reasonable 
response. I wouldnt generally award compensation for an insurer taking a month to make a 
claim assessment.
However, Great Lakes didnt make any assessment of the baggage delay part of the claim 
and to my knowledge still hasnt done so and its had that claim for nearly twelve months. 
I think £100 compensation is a reasonable amount to acknowledge Mr C and Miss Hs 
distress and inconvenience due to Great Lakes overall unfair delay in handling their claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr C and Miss H accepted my provisional decision. Great Lakes accepted it should pay the 
baggage delay claim as Id detailed and the £100 compensation for Mr C and Miss Hs 
distress and inconvenience. But it didnt accept that it should reassess the travel delay claim. 
It said the wording in the travel delay and abandonment section on page 38 of the policy 
(which Ive set out above) was clear that only delay from the first departure point was 
covered and theres no mention of cover for delay in connecting flights. Mr C and Miss H could have cancelled the policy in the 14 days cooling off period if they didnt think it was 
suitable. Also the delay was due to airline staff shortages which the policy didnt cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes has accepted it will pay Mr C and Miss Hs baggage delay claim as Ive detailed 
and £100 compensation. Its response as to why it shouldnt reassess the travel delay claim 
hasnt changed my mind that it should. I dont consider that the policy wording at page 38 in 
a 72 page policy document sufficiently clearly highlighted the significant restriction on the 
travel delay cover to Mr C and Miss H. So I dont think its fair for Great Lakes to use that 
restriction on cover to decline the claim. And as Ive explained above, while the policy 
doesnt specifically cover delays due to airline staff shortages, in these circumstances I think 
it would be reasonable for Great Lakes to consider that the scheduled flight from the UK 
airport was in effect cancelled by the airline, which is covered.
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I uphold this 
complaint. Great Lakes must put things right as Ive detailed below.
Putting things right
Great Lakes must: reassess Mr C and Miss Hs claim for travel delay, without reference to 
the restriction that the travel delay has to be at the first departure point, and subject to the 
remaining policy terms and conditions; pay Mr C and Miss Hs baggage delay claim subject 
to the policy terms and conditions, plus interest as Ive detailed below; pay Mr C and Miss H 
£100 compensation to acknowledge their distress and inconvenience due to its unfair 
handling of their claim. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Great Lakes Insurance SE to:
Reassess Mr C and Miss Hs claim for travel delay, without reference to the 
restriction that the travel delay has to be at the first departure point, and subject to 
the remaining policy terms and conditions, and
Pay Mr C and Miss Hs baggage delay claim subject to the policy terms and 
conditions, plus interest* at 8% simple a year from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement, and  
Pay Mr C and Miss H £100 compensation to acknowledge their distress and 
inconvenience due to its unfair handling of their claim. 
*If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr C and Miss H how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr C and Miss H a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Nicola SiskOmbudsman