DRN-3152973
The complaint
Ms B complains that Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd didnt provide assistance to her when she 
claimed on her roadside assistance policy. 
What happened
Ms B had a flat tyre so called Bastion for assistance. Bastion said that Ms Bs policy only 
provides roadside assistance if Ms Bs car had a spare wheel. However, as her car only had 
an aerosol can, the policy only provided phone support to help her self-administer the 
aerosol can. Ms B said she had a spare wheel and asked Bastion to assist her.
Bastion said it could come out and assist but Ms B would need to pay the policy excess of 
£40. They also said as Ms B had originally said she had an aerosol can but was now saying 
she had a spare wheel, that a £100 fee would apply if recovery was dispatched and it was 
discovered she didnt have a spare wheel. 
Ms B wasnt happy with Bastion and complained. She said she didnt have any way to pay 
over the phone. Bastion agreed to not change the additional £100 until after it had arrived 
and checked whether she had a spare wheel but said the policy excess needed to be paid 
before it could dispatch recovery. As Ms B couldnt pay the policy excess Bastion didnt 
dispatch a recovery vehicle to assist her. Ms B didnt think this was fair and referred her 
complaint here. She said it had been a hot day and she had a young child and new-born 
baby with her. And because Bastion hadnt sent out the roadside assistance, shed had to 
arrange alternate assistance and get public transport. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it was upheld. He found that 
while Ms B couldnt pay the excess that Bastion could have made alternate arrangements to 
enable it to provide assistance. And as assistance hadnt been sent, he recommended 
Bastion compensate Ms B for what she paid for the alternate assistance and public 
transport. He also recommended Bastion pay Ms B £150 for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience caused by not providing assistance. Bastion disagreed, it said the policy Ms B 
had required an excess and as shed refused to pay it then it hadnt done anything wrong. 
As Bastion didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Ms Bs policy say:
In order to raise a claim for a flat tyre, We require that You have on 
Your possession the following:
1. The locking wheel nut key and,
2. A fully serviceable spare, or space saving, wheel.
Ms B originally told Bastion that she had an aerosol can but then let them know she had a 
spare wheel. As Ms B told Bastion she had what was needed to claim for a flat tyre Im 
satisfied that it should have provided assistance for the breakdown. However, Ive also 
considered Bastions point about Ms Bs policy having an excess. 
The policy Ms B has is one which has an excess of £40 per claim. The terms of Ms Bs policy 
define excess as:
Excess means the first part You paid under Your Primary 
Insurance Policy under the terms of that Policy.
The policy then refers to excess again under the indemnity limit section where it limits the 
policy to £2,500 per year, minus the excess of £40 if applicable. As Ms Bs policy has an 
excess of £40, I agree that its fair and reasonable for Bastion to charge it in the event of a 
claim. Bastion has said it needs to be paid before roadside assistance is dispatched, but Im 
not persuaded thats fair and reasonable in this particular case. 
I say that because Bastion hasnt shown which term says the excess has to be paid before 
assistance is provided. However even if it can, Im not persuaded it would be fair in this case. 
I say that because Ms B explained she had no method of making payment, and while I can 
see the advisor tried to help Ms B by providing some suggestions, Im satisfied Bastion could 
have done more. This is because Ive also noticed under the renewal section of the policy 
that the policy automatically renews unless Ms B opts out. For this to happen the policy says 
it will charge the card used to purchase the policy, or if that fails, Bastion will send a payment 
link via e-mail to Ms B. From listening to the calls with Bastion I cant see that either of those 
options were explored. Or even if those werent available the option to let Ms B pay later 
when she got home. So, Im not persuaded Bastion did what was reasonable in the 
circumstances of this particular case. 
As Im persuaded Bastion could have done more and therefore should have provided 
assistance, Ive looked at how its failure has impacted Ms B. Ms B has shown she paid 
£54.60 for alternate assistance, along with public transport costs of £16.60. This means 
shes paid £71.20 that she shouldnt have. However, as Ms B hadnt paid her excess its fair 
and reasonable for Bastion to deduct that amount from what Ms B has paid which means 
shes £31.20 out of pocket. Therefore, to put things right, Bastion should pay Ms B £31.20 to 
compensate her for the costs she shouldnt have incurred. 
Ive also considered the unnecessary distress and inconvenience Bastion caused Ms B by 
not providing roadside assistance. Ms B explained she had a young toddler and a new-born 
baby with her on a hot day which was stressful as they were thirsty and hungry. Shes also 
had to make additional calls to Bastion and to arrange other assistance. Im therefore 
satisfied £150 is a fair and reasonable amount for Bastion to pay Ms B for the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd to pay Ms B £31.20 for the costs she shouldnt have incurred, plus 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Alex NewmanOmbudsman