DRN-3495062
The complaint
This complaint is about an interest-only mortgage Mr and Mrs W hold with 
HSBC UK Bank Plc. Theyre unhappy that HSBC hasnt been taking annual capital 
reductions of £50,000 that were a condition of the mortgage when it started in 2008.They 
only found out in 2020 that they still owe the full amount they borrowed. 
Mr and Mrs W wont have access to enough money to pay the mortgage off in full when it 
falls due, due to financial commitments theyve made. Mr and Mrs W say they wouldnt have 
made those commitments if theyd know the capital reductions hadnt been made. Theyre 
asking that HSBC be instructed to extend the mortgage term by five years and pay them 
substantial compensation.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs W and HSBC Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, which has been 
shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. A fellow ombudsman 
decided we only had jurisdiction to look into what had happened since August 2014. When 
our investigator did that, she wasnt persuaded HSBC was at fault. Mr and Mrs W asked for 
the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr and Mrs W being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Our rules include the time limits my fellow ombudsman applied when she decided we only 
had jurisdiction to look into events since August 2014. We consider jurisdiction at every 
stage of a complaint, so Ive looked at my colleagues decision, and her reasoning for 
reaching it. Having done so, I agree with her conclusion. My decision on the merits of the 
case deals solely with what has happened since August 2014.  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this case lies in a comment Mr W made in his email of 22 April 2022 responding 
to the investigators view. Mr W says its outrageous that we could conclude HSBC had done 
nothing wrong: when clearly they have not carried out something which was a CONDITION 
of my mortgage. 
I appreciate Mr Ws strength of feeling but Im afraid he has mis-directed himself, in a 
number of ways.
Firstly, Im not entirely convinced that the requirement for annual capital reductions was 
formally incorporated into the mortgage contract. It wasnt in the mortgage offer itself, but set 
out in a separate side letter signed by Mr and Mrs W. That suggest to me that it was a 
slightly informal agreement between the parties rather than a strict condition of the 
mortgage. That might explain why theres no suggestion of HSBC having chased 
Mr and Mrs W over the years, or having recorded non-payment of the capital reductions on 
Mr and Mrs Ws respective credit files.
But even if it were s a formal condition of the mortgage, it isnt HSBSs condition to comply 
with; it is Mr and Mrs Ws. Its a universally-accepted convention of lending and borrowing 
that borrowers are responsible for making the payments required of them under the lending 
contract, and for ensuring the necessary mechanism for making them (such a direct debit 
mandate) has been put in place. Thats not a responsibility that can be delegated or 
transferred to any other party. 
The reality, however unwelcome or unpalatable they might find it, is that Mr and Mrs Ws 
current position is not down to any act or omission on HSBCs part. The statements HSBC 
has sent them over the relevant period mean that Mr and Mrs W always had enough 
information at their disposal to realise the capital reductions werent being made. Given that 
making the payments was their responsibility, it was up to Mr and Mrs W to remedy that.
Going forward, its for Mr and Mrs W to have a constructive dialogue with HSBC about the 
future of the mortgage; its not for this service to say how that dialogue should take place or 
in any way pre-empt the outcome. But that dialogue needs to happen and I very much hope 
it can take place without any recrimination over what has gone before. All Id add is a 
reminder that HSBCs duty to treats its customers fairly is ongoing. 
Mr and Mrs W dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
HSBC will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mr and Mr Ws right to take legal action against HSBC over the subject 
matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman