DRN-3308949
The complaint
Mrs S with the assistance of her representative, complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds 
handling of her claim made on her buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S has brought her complaint to this service with the assistance of her representative. 
But for ease of reference, Ill refer to any responses or information provided by them 
collectively as made by Mrs S.
At the end of May 2019 Mrs S home was damaged following an escape of water and she 
notified Ageas of the claim. It appointed a specialist drying company to undertake the drying 
of the property ahead of any repair work being able to take place  it first attended the 
property the day after the claim notification. A separate contractor was appointed by Ageas 
to manage and complete the repair works.
In July 2019 Mrs S complained about delays to the claim process and the removal of fungus 
from the property. Ageas issued a final response on this complaint on 19 July 2019. It 
apologised for delays added to the claim as the contractor completing the repair works was 
unable to attend and complete strip out works because of a delay in the drying company 
sanitising and removing the fungus first. This didnt take place until two weeks after theyd 
been notified of the fungus which although not considered a significant delay, was something 
Ageas felt it could have organised sooner.
In October 2019 Mrs S complained to Ageas about the progress of the claim again. She 
complained that the claim was taking too long and that her kitchen unit doors had been 
disposed of. She didnt think they should have been thrown away and was unhappy that her 
policy doesnt cover matching sets, meaning any replacement doors would likely be different 
to the existing wall units. She also complained that shed been asked to remove the fungus 
from the property herself which left her feeling unwell and that she should have been moved 
to alternative accommodation.
Ageas issued a final response on 24 October 2019 addressing these complaint points. It 
explained why it felt the kitchen doors needed to be removed and what the policy covered in 
relation to matching sets. It explained the complaint about being asked to remove the fungus 
had been addressed by the drying company directly but it explained the answer given in 
relation to this  in which an apology was made if there had been a misunderstanding in 
Mrs S believing shed been asked to complete the strip out works. It explained what it had 
been doing to progress the claim and why this had taken as long as it had and that it had 
offered Mrs S and her son alternative accommodation previously which had been declined. 
Ageas said it could cash settle the claim to move things forward sooner if Mrs S wished and 
it set out what it was prepared to offer for the cash settlement at this point.  As with the 
response sent in July, Ageas provided referral rights to this service.
The claim progressed without cash settlement but in January 2020, Mrs S had cause to 
complain to Ageas again. This complaint focused on the response times of Ageas and how it 
had kept Mrs S updated with specific complaints about wait times on the phone and email 
response times. Mrs S had also complained about the decision now taken by Ageas with the 
claim to stop completing the works directly and pay a cash settlement in lieu of the value of 
the outstanding works. Mrs S also complained that she was unable to spend Christmas at 
home due to the work not being completed.
Ageas provided a final response on 21 January 2020 addressing the complaint points raised.
It explained that Mrs S had been told previously that it may be quicker to call the claims 
handlers direct number instead of the main claims helpline. Had this been done they would 
have reached the claim handler directly. It also explained what the response times for its 
emails were and while it would like to have an automated response, it doesnt have this in 
place at this time. But it had informed Mrs S of the response time for email correspondence 
previously.
It explained why it was now choosing to cash settle this claim. It said it had taken this 
decision following a number of delays because of insured work needing to be redone a 
number of times because of Mrs S walking on areas of repaired tile flooring that hadnt dried. 
This happened once and was redone by the contractors but it refused to repair the work 
again when it happened for a second time. 
In June 2020, Mrs S brought her complaint to this service.
In July 2020 Mrs S received another final response from Ageas. This final response gave 
more detail in relation to the disposal of the doors and Mrs S not being placed in alternative 
accommodation sooner, it also touched on the matching doors issue again. It then gave 
detail about the scope of works and why it had completed its original survey and agreed the 
scope it had. It explained why it was due to paint the whole of the kitchen but not to replace 
paper as the paper didnt match under the stairs so the painting was agreed. The response 
also addressed specific concerns about a telephone call between Mrs S representative and 
the appointed contractor for the works. Mrs S was concerned that Ageas was saying shed 
been dishonest about the gas leak and the cause of this  Ageas explained why this call had 
been misinterpreted but it maintained the gas leak was not an insured loss and it wouldnt 
cover this. 
Our investigator looked at Mrs S complaint and explained some of the complaint points had 
been brought too late for us to consider. Ageas had issued final responses on complaint 
points as they were raised and anything addressed in the final response issued in July and 
October 2019 was answered more than six months ago. As a result, she didnt think we 
could consider these complaint points as theyd been brought too late. She did think the later 
complaint issues could be considered and she listed the following issues that she looked 
into:
The Handling of the claim
The time taken to get through to Ageas on the phone
Ageas no longer completing work at the premises
The standard of work completed by the appointed contractor
The unsatisfactory work
Building waste not being clearedMrs S keys not being returned
Alternative accommodation
Parking permits
The cause of a gas leak
Her not being able to spend Christmas at home
The cash settlement
She considered these points individually and at length and I wont repeat what was said 
here. But in summary, she didnt think Ageas needed to do anything else with this complaint. 
And she explained why she wasnt upholding it.
Mrs S disagreed with the view. She was still questioning why some elements of the 
complaint couldnt be considered and hadnt been addressed. She felt Ageas was using the 
time bar to avoid responsibility. There was no agreement on any of the points and Mrs S 
questioned whether the telephone calls had been listened to and felt certain complaint points 
had been disregarded or ignored completely.
Because Mrs S disagreed with the investigators assessment, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im in agreement with our investigator that a number of the complaint points raised by Mrs S 
have been brought to us too late to consider.  The rules that set out what this service can 
and cant consider are set by the FCA and detailed in the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) 
rules  these can be found online. The relevant rule to Mrs S and some of her complaints is 
2.8 as explained by our investigator. But for clarity DISP 2.8.2 states the following:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP
2.8.2 or DISP 2.8.7 was as a result of exceptional circumstances;
(5) the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the complaint where
the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 or DISP 2.8.7 have expired (but this does not apply to a 
relevant complaint within the meaning of section 404B(3) of the Act).
Mrs S received final responses from Ageas on 19 July 2019 and 24 October 2019 and Ive 
explained in the background of this complaint what these responses addressed. Both final response letters set out referral rights to this service explaining if Mrs S was unhappy with 
the response provided she could bring the complaint to us. And these explained she had six 
months to bring the complaint. She didnt contact this service until 24 June 2020 and so this 
time limit had been exceeded. 
Ageas hasnt consented to us considering these complaint points. And Mrs S has provided 
no reasons for the delay which I feel would be deemed an exceptional circumstance and 
while other later response from Ageas may have referenced similar issues, I dont think 
these were sent to replace the previous response  nor do they indicate its position had ever 
changed.
I understand that a lot of the issues raised in these previous complaints were clearly very 
upsetting for Mrs S  having listened to all the calls provided, the complaint about the 
matching doors in the kitchen is extremely emotive as is the issue of alternative 
accommodation being offered at the time and the fungus growth in the kitchen. But this 
service can only work within the rules we have in place to govern us and because of this, I 
cant comment on the merits of the issues raised in the first two final responses received by 
Mrs S.
When looking at what this service can consider, Mrs S has raised a number of points  some 
of which I feel overlap with others. So for clarity and in response to concerns raised by Mrs S 
before about her complaints not being considered, Ill address the issues I see as most 
relevant to the overall complaint which is, has Ageas acted fairly when handling the claim 
brought by Mrs S.
I accept there has been points in this claim that could have been handled differently (some 
parts of which I cant comment on for the reasons explained above). But from what I can 
consider, I dont think there is enough to say Ageas needs to take any further steps to put 
things right beyond the apologies and actions taken previously and Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs S and Ill explain why Ive 
reached this decision.
Communication
Mrs S and her representative have been dealing with Ageas and its appointed contractor 
directly and all phone calls from June  2019 made to Ageas or from Ageas in relation to the 
complaint have been provided. These demonstrate that Mrs S and her representative 
questioned the timeframes of both telephone wait times and email responses a number of 
times during the calls to Ageas. They were told that email responses where within 3-5 
working days and that to avoid waiting on hold in the main claims queue, it would be quicker 
to call the allocated claims handlers number directly. 
As our investigator said, this service wouldnt generally look to interfere with a businesses 
decision in how it operates. But I think its fair to comment on whether the service received is 
fair and reasonable. Ageass response times for email correspondence are reasonable and 
its not fair to expect immediate replies to emails. And I think the advice to call the dedicated 
claims handlers line was sensible. I note Mrs S representative made other suggestions to 
what might be helpful to Ageas and its customers when waiting on the helpline, but overall, I 
dont think the service it offered here was unreasonable. 
Mrs S has said she feels the telephone communication demonstrates that Ageas and its staff 
treated her and her rep unfairly. Ive listened to all of these calls and dont agree this is the 
case. It is clear Ageas when dealing with Mrs S attempted to work with her as best as 
possible to keep her updated. Despite her appointing a representative to assist with the 
claim, she often called Ageas directly and it relayed messages to her and the rep, including the benefits of calling the case handlers number directly  although I appreciate Mrs S said 
at times this had been attempted first.  When dealing with contractors in relation to the claim, 
the calls show Ageas wanted to progress this as soon as possible and made sure any 
complaint about handling or information provided was investigated as they went. 
I dont agree the calls or communication show Ageas to have acted unfairly or in a way 
which shows they were uniting to undermine Mrs S. 
I also note that Mrs S said a letter of complaint was sent to Ageass CEO with a signed for 
delivery but no response was received. Im afraid complaint handling itself is not a regulated 
activity so this isnt something I can comment on. But with four final responses issued over 
the period in which the claim was handled, I think its clear Ageas was engaging with Mrs S 
on her complaint.
Alternative accommodation 
Mrs S has a number of complaints about the alternative accommodation. She feels this 
should have been offered sooner, there was mistakes made with the booking, she was away 
from home for Christmas and the amount paid for food wasnt sufficient.
The question on whether the accommodation should have been offered sooner was 
addressed by Ageas in the response in October 2019 so I cant comment on this element. 
But I can respond to the other points about the alternative accommodation.
The calls made when the alternative accommodation was offered in December 2019 show 
how long the contractors expected the repair works to take. And it was clear they initially felt 
Mrs S would be back in her property for Christmas. However, there was issues with the 
repair works being completed as expected. Mrs S returned to the property whilst staying in 
the alternative accommodation and the flooring was walked on when it wasnt set and the 
cold weather slowed the drying process. As a result of this and the gas leak identified in 
December the alternative accommodation was extended to the 3 January.
I dont think there is anything to suggest Ageas or its contractors acted unfairly or added 
delays which led to Mrs S not being back home sooner. With building works delays can often 
happen and the original authorisation for the alternative accommodation seemed to cover up 
to the 3 January  although it was clear Ageas and its contractor didnt think this much time 
would be needed when the alternative accommodation started. I understand it was upsetting 
for Mrs S not to be at home for Christmas, but when the repair work hadnt been completed, 
Ageas acted fairly by maintaining the alternative accommodation, even though it was 
concerned some of the delays were as a result of the damaged caused when the floor was 
walked on before it was ready and when it was now taking the decision to cash settle the 
claim. 
When the alternative accommodation was arranged Ageas provided the wrong details of the 
hotel and Mrs S son was asked to travel more than an hour to a different location. Mrs S has 
said it was only when her representative made contact that this didnt need to happen and 
the right accommodation was booked. This is a clear error and its not clear why Ageas and 
the booking agent only changed this when the representative intervened. But I think the fact 
it was resolved and without the need for travel meant Mrs S and her son were not 
inconvenienced further. So while a frustration, I dont think it would be fair to ask Ageas to 
pay compensation for this error. 
Ageas explained how it calculated the daily allowance for Mrs S and her son when offering 
money for food when in the alternative accommodation. The figure Mrs S said she would 
need is relatively low in my opinion and what shed normally spend on food at home would be different to what shed spend away from the home. But Ageas offered the amount based 
on what Mrs S said she would spend for her and her son and it increased this amount from 
£20 per day to £100 for Christmas day and £50 a day for Christmas Eve, Boxing Day and 
New Years day. Which I feel was fair.
Ageas deducted from the settlement for the food how much Mrs S would normally spend 
each week on food  as the purpose of the payment isnt to put her in a better position but to 
make sure she didnt loose out if she was needing to spend more because of being in 
alternative accommodation. The calculation was explained in one of the calls to Mrs S and 
her rep was also given this information. But I think if Mrs S can demonstrate she spent more 
than what shed been paid for food when in the alternative accommodation, less what shed 
normally spend on this, it would be reasonable to expect Ageas to consider this. But Ive not 
been shown this is the case and so will not direct it to make a payment here. 
Repair works and quality
Mrs S is unhappy with the level of work completed and that a cash settlement was provided 
at the end of the claim when this wasnt requested or accepted. These issues are very much 
interlinked and Ill explain why.
Our investigator explained that Mrs S policy sets out that Ageas can decide how to settle a 
claim. It will decide whether to repair any damaged items or replace them or make a cash 
settlement if it decides this is the most appropriate way of settling the claim. Ultimately, it 
reserves the right to decide this as the insurer.
Ageas took the decision to cash settle after several ongoing issues with the contractors and 
what should have been the final stages of the repair work. Because of this its natural to 
expect the work is unfinished and this could result in concerns about the quality. Mrs S 
thinks this would have been resolved by Ageas meeting a loss adjuster she appointed on 
site to discuss what still needed to be completed at the house and point out work that Ageas 
has said isnt in scope. I dont think it needed to do this.
Ageas had agreed the scope of works with Mrs S when the claim was accepted and it 
continued to work or attempt to work to this scope. There was occasions when work needed 
to be redone as a result of damage caused by flooring being walked on before it had set and 
when kitchen units were moved to allow for a new cooker to be installed by Mrs S own 
contractor and I think its fair that Ageas shouldnt have to cover additional work after it had 
completed its repair. 
Mrs S is able to appoint a surveyor at her own cost if she wishes to do so to evidence if there 
is further damage at the property which is a result of the escape of water. And Id expect 
Ageas to give this due consideration if received, but Ageas doesnt need to revisit the 
property when it has cash settled the agreed scope of works. 
The visit carried out by the specialist drying contractor the day after the claim notification 
gave the following summary as the affected areas:
There has been a leak from the kitchen pipework this has affected the kitchen walls and 
floor, the hallway walls and floor and the bathroom floor.
This report fed into the scope of work and Ageas authorised this based on the evidence 
provided by the drying contractor and its contractor in charge of the repairs.
Although Mrs S and her representative are unhappy with the level of work and how the claim 
was handled, there is little evidence to show damage to other areas of the house is as a result of the escape of water and because of this, Im not satisfied its fair to expect Ageas to 
do anything further.
I also havent been provided anything which confirms the gas leak was because of the work 
carried out by Ageas in the kitchen. I understand the argument made that logically, if the leak 
was not noticed until work was being carried out by Ageass contractors that the likely cause 
is it. However, the problem with this assumption is the location of the leak and proof of this 
together with the repair work needed.  The report provided doesnt specify where the leak 
originated with it only giving the following description of the location.
Gas Leak found to be in gas pipe to cooker which was damaged making it unsafe
It doesnt confirm where in the pipe the leak was but with the whole feed needing to re-pipe 
from the front of the house, it appears likely this was more than just the connection to the 
cooker. And whether Mrs S was sure or not of the cause, shed said to Ageas that the leak 
was from under the stairs. So Im not persuaded damage was caused by Ageas and its 
contractors and it wouldnt be fair to ask Ageas to complete the repairs based on an 
assumption only that its contractors caused the damage.  
The photos of the work and rubbish left after Ageas had stopped working show the property 
could have been left tidier. There were other contractors on site and it is fair to believe the 
rubbish may not all be from Ageas. But Ageas on receipt of the images agreed to have all 
rubbish removed and was happy to return the keys as soon as possible. This didnt seem to 
happen immediately and I can see there was reason for the keys being delayed. But I think 
Ageas acted fairly when these final issues were highlighted and its system notes show it 
immediately reached out to the relevant parties to put this right. 
I understand the frustration about the parking permits and the deduction of £40 from the 
settlement amount to reflect the use of these. Insurance isnt in place to provide a benefit but 
instead, put someone back in the position they would have been in had the peril not 
occurred. Mrs S disputes not using more of the permits for the contractors or that she failed 
to hand these over when work was completed. But the contractor has explained how many 
permits they believe they had been given and I see no reason why they would lie about this. 
I dont believe Mrs S has kept any outstanding tickets in an attempt to make a gain, but its 
fair that if there was tickets left over, that she covers the cost of these herself as shell have 
the benefit of these in the future. 
Overall the claim went on for several months and its clear that Mrs S was distressed by the 
delays and was understandably keen to know when the repairs would be completed. Some 
of the delays were because of disputes over the cover with the kitchen doors and this 
decision adding time to the process. I dont think it would be fair to say Ageas did anything 
wrong when it progressed the claim. Most of the time added to this was because of the need 
for the property to be dried and this didnt happen until September 2019 and after this point I 
think Ageas did its best to progress this claim and work through any concerns as quickly as 
possible. When it became clear this was no longer working it took the decision to cash settle 
and its allowed to do this. Mrs S hasnt shown that the cost of the repairs left on the agreed 
scope of work will cost her more than the amount offered by Ageas for the cash settlement 
and so I think its acted fairly when offering this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mrs S complaint against Ageas 
Insurance Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman