DRN-3235297
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain because they were unable to contact TICORP Limited in response to 
an offer to add travel disruption extension (TDE) cover to their travel insurance policy. 
Staysure is a trading name of TICORP Limited and Ive referred to TICORP Limited as 
Staysure throughout this final decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy from Staysure on 26 
February 2020. They paid an additional premium to purchase gadget cover at the same 
time. 
On the afternoon of 12 March 2020, Mr and Mrs D received an email from Staysure. The 
email said: 
As an existing customer without Travel Disruption Extension cover, you can add this to your 
current policy by registering and/or logging into your My Staysure Account and adding the 
appropriate cover option to your policy... 
As you may understand, were currently experiencing an unprecedented demandso the 
best way toadd options to your existing policy is online. 
On 13 March 2020, at 9.38am, Mrs D emailed Staysure to say shed tried to call to check the 
cover and add the TDE cover but had been unable to get though. She also said that shed 
tried to add the TDE online. However, she hadnt been able to connect to the website. She 
asked Staysure to contact her regarding adding the TDE as she was unable do it and said 
that shed keep trying.
Staysure emailed Mr and Mrs D on 17 March 2020. It said that its call centres and website 
had experienced unprecedented demand due to Covid-19. And it said the underwriter of 
TDE had decided to remove the cover as an optional extra from 11.59pm on 13 March 2020, 
so it wouldnt be able to offer the product to Mr and Mrs D any longer.
Mrs D had been due to travel abroad on 15 March 2020. But her trip had been cancelled due 
to the closure of ski resorts by the government of the country she was travelling to. She 
received refund for her flights from her airline. But the accommodation provider only offered 
a partial refund of Mrs Ds costs.  
As Mrs D hadnt added TDE to the policy, Staysure said she wouldnt have a valid claim 
because the circumstances werent covered as a cancellation reason under the terms and 
conditions of the contract she and Mr D held. So Mrs D complained to Staysure, saying 
shed tried to purchase the TDE cover offered to her on 12 March 2020. Her email had been 
a statement of intent to add the TDE and shed thought it would be added to her policy, as 
shed requested it prior to the underwriters cut-off time.
Staysure reiterated that the underwriter of TDE cover had withdrawn the product on 13 
March 2020 and said Mr and Mrs D had had the option of adding TDE when they bought the 
policy in February 2020. However, theyd chosen not to do so. Staysure did offer Mr and Mrs 
D a voucher worth £25 which could be redeemed against a future policy purchase.
 
As Mrs D remained unhappy with Staysures position, she and Mr D asked us to look into 
their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should be partly upheld. She 
acknowledged that Mr and Mrs D hadnt chosen to add TDE when they took out the policy. 
However, she felt Mrs D had made attempts to purchase the cover ahead of time, but due to 
Staysures phone delays and website issues, she hadnt been able to do so. So she thought 
Mrs D had experienced some inconvenience as a result. And she felt any claim Mrs D had 
made was likely to have been covered had she taken out the TDE. So she recommended 
that Staysure should pay Mr and Mrs D £100 compensation to recognise the frustration its 
actions had had on them.
Staysure accepted the investigators recommendation and agreed to pay Mr and Mrs D 
compensation of £100 on top of its existing voucher offer.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the investigator. They felt the investigator shouldve been able 
to tell Staysure to pay the value of any claim Mrs D wouldve made. And while they 
acknowledged Staysure didnt have to accept the risk, it had offered them the TDE, which 
Mrs D had asked to be added to the policy. So they didnt think Staysure had treated them 
fairly.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D, I think Staysures offer to pay 
them £100 compensation, in addition to the £25 voucher its already offered is fair and 
reasonable and Ill explain why.
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for Business) 
say: 
 a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
FCA guidance (The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of 
Customers) says firms should consider the impact of their actions  or inactions  on the 
customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided. 
In deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint, Ive had regard to rules and guidance such as these. In line with our remit, weve 
asked for information from other businesses which is relevant to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
Weve seen evidence that the underwriter of the TDE cover instructed sales of the product to 
stop on 11 March 2020, for implementation on 12 March 2020. However, Staysure 
subsequently sent an email to its customers, including Mr and Mrs D, on 12 March 2020 
offering them the opportunity to purchase TDE. It was later agreed between the underwriter 
and Staysure that TDE could be sold to certain customers whose policies were stuck in the 
online portal in the process of making their purchase until midnight on 15 March 2020. I dont think this would have applied to Mr and Mrs D. But, based on what I know, the underwriter 
issued instructions stopping the sale of TDE cover going forward before Staysure sent the 
initial email to Mr and Mrs D on the afternoon of 12 March 2020. So Mr and Mrs D would 
never have been able to buy the TDE when Staysure offered it to them. 
As a result of Staysures email invitation, on 13 March 2020, Mrs D tried to get in touch with 
Staysure to try and add the cover. While she cant provide itemised evidence of the calls she 
made, or attempted efforts to add the cover online, Mrs D has referenced trying to add the 
TDE in her email to Staysure at 9.38am on the morning of 13 March 2020. So I think its 
most likely Mrs D did try and add the cover both by phone and online before emailing 
Staysure. And she asked Staysure to contact her regarding adding the TDE, so Im satisfied 
Mrs D wanted the cover and was inconvenienced by attempting to add it when it was no 
longer available to her to purchase. 
Ive considered what Staysure has said about TDE cover being available for Mr and Mrs D to 
purchase when Mrs D bought the policy in February 2020, as well as its comments about 
other insurers withdrawing similar cover at an earlier point. I understand Mr and Mrs D had 
the option to purchase TDE cover when they bought the policy but chose not to do so. 
However, Mr and Mrs D were also entitled to attempt to take Staysure up on its offer in 
March 2020, having received an invitation from Staysure to add the TDE to the policy. It 
seems Staysures email of 12 March 2020 prompted Mr and Mrs D to try to buy TDE cover. 
And I think they were entitled to respond to Staysures email with an attempt to purchase 
what was apparently being offered to them. 
But Staysure had no obligation to provide Mr and Mrs D with any particular type of travel 
insurance cover, and it was down to Mr and Mrs D to ensure they had a travel insurance 
policy which met their needs. Given Mr and Mrs D had already paid an additional premium 
for one optional cover, I also think theyd have been aware that theyd need to pay for the 
TDE and hadnt done so. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Staysure to 
cover Mrs Ds unused holiday costs in these circumstances.
However, I think compensation is due to Mr and Mrs D because of the impact of Staysures 
actions  or inactions - on them. Staysure invited customers to add TDE as an additional 
policy option at a time when the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic was starting to be felt 
when it wasnt in a position to offer this product. Im satisfied this caused Mrs D frustration 
and inconvenience. Staysure then went on to mishandle Mrs Ds enquiries. So I think it 
would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Staysure to pay Mrs D compensation 
in recognition of what happened.
Staysure has agreed to pay Mr and Mrs D £100 compensation in recognition of its errors, in 
addition to the credit voucher its already offered. In the round, and on the specific facts of 
this case, I think this is fair compensation to recognise the frustration its service failures 
caused Mr and Mrs D. So this is what Im directing Staysure to payMy final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Staysures offer of compensation 
is fair and reasonable.
I direct TICORP Limited to pay Mr and Mrs D £100 compensation, in addition to the £25 
credit voucher it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman