DRN-3671137
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, provided him with wrong 
information in its mobile banking app.
What happened
Mr D had a current account with Halifax. On 23 November 2021, at around 1am, Mr D used 
the Halifax mobile banking app to deposit a cheque. Mr D says the app displayed a message 
which said that the cheque would be cleared and the funds available by 5pm the next day.
But the next day, the funds werent available at 5pm. Mr D also noticed that the app had 
wrongly recorded the date that hed deposited the cheque.    
Mr D complained to Halifax and, in response, it upheld the complaint. Halifax said that it was 
aware of an issue with how the cheque deposit date was recorded in its mobile banking app. 
So, it understood how this could be confusing for customers. It said it had raised the issue 
with the relevant team in response to Mr Ds concerns. To compensate Mr D for the 
inconvenience, and for the time hed spent on the phone talking about it, Halifax awarded 
him £42. 
Even though the deposit date wasnt recorded correctly in the app, Halifax reassured Mr D 
that his cheque had been processed correctly. It clarified; if a cheque is deposited by 10pm 
on a normal weekday then the money would be available by 11:59pm the following day. 
Thats what had happened with Mr Ds cheque, so there hadnt been any delay. 
In response, Mr D reiterated that the app had shown a message which said the funds would 
be available by 5pm the next working day. And, a short while later, in December, Mr D 
deposited another cheque. He says the same thing happened, that being; Halifaxs app 
displayed a message which set out that his cheque would be cleared by 5pm the following 
day. But again, it wasnt.  
Mr D approached our service for an independent review of his complaint in May 2022. He 
said, in summary, that he was unhappy Halifaxs app recorded the cheque deposit date 
incorrectly and that the cheques hadnt cleared by 5pm the following working day. He said 
the misleading information had caused him much inconvenience.
An investigator here looked at what had happened and, while he understood Mr Ds 
frustration at the matter, he thought Halifax had done enough to put things right. 
In short, the investigator said he hadnt been provided with anything to show that Halifaxs 
mobile app had displayed a message which confirmed Mr Ds cheques would clear by 5pm 
the next working day. Moreover, the investigator thought Halifax staff had taken appropriate 
action at the time to raise the issue about cheque deposit dates in its app. He also thought 
Halifax had fairly compensated Mr D for his time and cost of phone calls. So, in conclusion, 
the investigator didnt think Halifax needed to take any further action. 
Mr D disagreed. In summary, he maintained that the app said his money would be available 
by 5pm the day after hed deposited the cheques. He couldnt provide evidence of the 
messages hed seen, but that wasnt any fault of his own. Rather, it was because mobile 
phone operating systems prevented screenshots being taken of financial services apps. 
Mr D also thought Halifax had been grossly negligent in not updating its app.
So, as no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the 
enforcer for the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Our 
service acts as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial 
businesses. We look at the circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case 
basis, taking into account relevant industry guidance, make findings about whether a 
financial business has failed the complainant in any way. 
Where we find they have, we make awards designed to make the business put things right 
for the complainant. Our awards are not designed to punish a business, nor are they to 
make a business change the way it acts in order to protect other customers in the future. 
That is the role of the regulator. 
Im aware that Mr D has made several points in his submissions, and I thank him for taking 
the time to do so. While I want to reassure him that I have read everything hes said and 
provided, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be focusing on the 
crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
When it provided its file in relation to Mr Ds complaint, Halifax told this service that it was 
aware of an issue with how its mobile banking app displays some information. Specifically, 
the bank knew about a glitch with the way the app records the date a cheque is deposited. 
That problem is unhelpful, of course, and I can see why Mr D wouldve been frustrated by it. 
Given the time thats passed since both Halifax and Mr D provided their submissions to our 
service, I dont know if this issue still occurs. Nonetheless, while I appreciate Mr D thinks 
Halifax has had long enough to fix things, I think its important to clarify that I dont have the 
power to dictate or enforce a timescale upon Halifax for it to make any necessary 
amendments to its app. 
I would certainly expect the bank to take some action to fix any potential problems and, of 
course, Id encourage it to act as quickly as it could. But my role here is to look at the 
specifics of Mr Ds complaint. And, in my view, bank staff took appropriate steps to flag the 
issue internally after he told Halifax about his experience. Ive seen that feedback was sent 
to the relevant team about the issue, and I think that was a reasonable course of action at 
the time.  
Mr D has explained how, after successfully depositing a cheque via the app, he saw a 
message which told him the funds would be available by 5pm the next working day. Im 
aware of the reasons hes given for why hes not been able to provide a copy of the 
message. But even so, from what I have been provided, theres nothing  from either Mr D 
or Halifax  which suggests funds would be available by 5pm the next working day after a 
cheque is deposited via the mobile banking app.  Halifax has provided me a copy of its cheque clearing timescales. This information is 
available on its website, Ive also seen that Halifax clarified it with Mr D when he called and 
in its final response to his complaint. It says:
Funds will normally be available in your account at the end of the next working day. So, if 
you pay in a cheque before 10pm on a normal weekday, thats classed as the first working 
day. Your money will usually be available by the end of the following working day.
Its possible theres been some confusion over the phrase end of the next working day  an 
individual might, quite understandably, interpret that as meaning 5pm. But from what Ive 
seen, that isnt the case. Everything Ive been provided suggests that funds will usually be 
available by 11:59pm the following working day after a cheque is deposited. So, although I 
understand how strongly Mr D feels about this point, Ive not seen anything to back up what 
hes said. And nor have I seen that Mr Ds cheques suffered any delay in processing in-line 
with the timescales Ive quoted above. On that basis, I dont find that Halifax did something 
wrong here. 
To sum up, then, while I know this isnt the answer Mr D will be hoping for  I dont think 
Halifax has acted unfairly or unreasonably. Nor do I think it caused any delays, or financial 
loss, to Mr D when it processed his cheques. Im satisfied that Halifax has already 
appropriately compensated Mr D for the inconvenience, and its made sure hes not out of 
pocket by refunding him the cost of any phone calls. It follows that I dont require Halifax to 
take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman