DRN-1785471
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc wont pay him compensation after a faulty cash 
machine was unable to accept a cash deposit.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr K was looking to make an online purchase. He says he didnt have 
enough funds in his account, so took a taxi to his local branch to make a cash deposit. It was 
a bank holiday weekend and the branch was closed. As the cash machine Mr K intended to 
use was faulty  he was unable to make a deposit. 
Mr K phoned Santander to report the fault. He was told this would be logged and a repair 
arranged. Mr K complained as not being able to deposit funds meant he was unable to make 
the online purchase he had intended - missing out on the items he was looking to buy. He 
was also unhappy hed had a wasted taxi journey. 
Mr K wanted Santander to compensate him for the items he couldnt buy, the taxi fare and 
make an award for the inconvenience. He later added to this complaint that he had been 
misinformed as Santander did not call back within the timescales it had given. 
Santander looked into Mr Ks complaint and agreed there had been a fault with the cash 
machine. It said as soon as the branch re-opened after the bank holiday an engineer 
attended to repair the machine. It apologised for any unintentional inconvenience caused as 
a result of the fault but said this was not as a result of an error caused by Santander. It 
acknowledged Mr K was given incorrect information about timescales for a call back  it 
apologised and assured him feedback had been passed to the relevant department. It didnt 
agree to compensating Mr K, nor did it think it should be held liable for Mr Ks taxi fare or the 
items he had missed out on buying. 
Unhappy with Santanders response Mr K contacted our service. One of our investigators 
looked into things and didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. She didnt think Santander had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr K didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and based on what I have seen, I will not 
be asking Santander to do anymore here. My reasons are very much the same as the 
investigator and I think there is very little I can add.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that set out in full the facts, the considerations and the 
evidence. Both Mr K and Santander have read the investigators view, so I wont repeat 
every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. Id like to assure Mr K Ive 
read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Mr K says he was trying to buy some items online which cost £680. He says he needed to 
deposit £80 cash into his account to have enough funds available to make the purchase. As 
the cash machine was faulty and Mr K was not able to deposit the cash  he believes he 
missed out on the items he wanted to buy and thinks Santander should compensate him. 
Firstly, it's unfortunate Mr K wasn't able to purchase the items he wanted. But having 
considered all the evidence Im afraid I cant fairly say in the circumstances of his complaint 
that this was as a result of the cash machine being faulty. Ive reviewed Mr Ks bank 
statements which show on the day in question the available balance of his account was over 
£800  so I cant reasonably say that Santander should compensate Mr K for him not being 
able to purchase the items he was hoping to  as there were enough funds available in his 
account for him to do so. Consequently, I cant agree that Mr Ks inability to credit a further 
£80 into his account, due to a faulty machine has impacted on his ability to purchase the 
items as he has suggested. Further Mr K has not provided this service with any evidence of 
loss or items hes supposedly missed out on buying. 
I can understand Mr Ks frustration that he took a taxi specifically to make a cash deposit 
only to find the cash machine was out of order. And whilst I can see why he thinks 
Santander should refund him the taxi fare - I dont think it should reimburse Mr K the cost of 
this. I say this because Mr K would always have had to pay for this fare whether the cash 
machine was working or not. Unfortunately, cash machines can and do break down. And Im 
not aware that their availability is guaranteed. 
I know Mr K thinks Santander shouldve informed its customers the cash machine was faulty. 
Had it done so, he would not have made the trip. Again, I can see why Mr K might think this. 
But Santander isnt obliged to do so. It has many cash machines and customers. I dont think 
its practical or realistic to expect Santander to update all its customers with every cash 
machines status. So, I cant agree that by not doing so it acted unreasonably. 
I agree Mr K was misinformed about the timescales in which Santander would contact him. I 
can understand it wouldve been disappointing for Mr K to be told he would be updated in 2-
3 days when he shouldve been told it will be 5-7 days. But Im not persuaded that this had 
such an impact on Mr K to warrant a payment of compensation. I also note the delay in 
contacting Mr K did not have an impact on the repairs as these took place at the earliest 
possible opportunity that the engineer could attend  which was the first working day after 
the bank holiday weekend. I can see Santander apologised for giving Mr K inaccurate 
information and said, it has shared the feedback with the appropriate department. Im 
satisfied that this is a fair and reasonable way to resolve Mr Ks complaint.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr K as he feels he should receive 
compensation. But for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not persuaded the cash 
machine being faulty impaired Mr Ks ability to purchase the items he was looking to buy nor 
do I think Santander actions or lack of have caused Mr K any real trouble or upset or 
financial loss that warrants paying any compensation to him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman