DRN-3422982
The complaint
Mr S complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) unfairly declined part of 
his claim for two lost phones under his gadget insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S has gadget insurance with Assurant through his bank account. This provides cover for 
two mobile phones. Up to two successful claims are permitted in any 12-month period. A 
claim is not defined under the terms of the policy.
Mr S lost his two phones at the same time. He contacted Assurant to make a claim on 25 
January 2022. He provided details of both the lost phones. And explained when hed 
realised theyd gone missing hed retraced his steps. But hadnt been able to find them. 
Assurant accepted the claim for the first phone Mr S reported lost. But declined the claim for 
the second phone. They said that he was only entitled to make two successful claims within 
a rolling 12-month period under the terms and conditions of the policy. They noted that hed 
made a previous claim for accidental damage to his phone on 17 September 2021, less than 
12-months before the current claim. And that after hed given them details of the first phones 
loss, that had counted as the second claim. Therefore the claim for the second phone lost at 
the same time was declined as Assurant said the maximum policy claim limit had been 
reached.
Mr S was unhappy that Assurant had declined his claim for the second lost phone. So he 
complained. 
Assurant issued their final response to the complaint on 25 January 2022. They didnt uphold 
the complaint. They also issued a claim decline letter the same day. They said theyd 
declined the claim for his second phone as hed reached his claim limit. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr S brought his complaint to this service. He said hed read 
the terms and conditions. He agreed that they said that only two claims would be allowed in 
any 12-month period. But he said he had two phones on cover with Assurant. And that 
although he had made a claim in the 12-month period before he lost his two phones, his 
current claim related to the same incident and should be considered as a single claim, even 
though two phones had been lost. He said that Assurant had told him that theyd process 
both of his phones separately when hed made the claim for the lost phones. But that after 
his claim for the first phone had been accepted, Assurant took the details of his second 
phone but then refused that part of his claim as they considered it to be his third claim in a 
12-month period. Mr S would like Assurant to cover both his phones under one claim.
Our investigator considered Mr Ss complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld. She felt 
that the policy terms were clear that there was a limit of two claims in a 12-month period. As 
she felt the policy terms had been applied fairly she didnt consider she could ask Assurant 
to do anything differently.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators decision. He didnt feel that the terms of the policy 
explained that his loss should be considered as two claims.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint came to me for a final decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 11 March 2022. It said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. I dont consider that the terms and conditions explain 
that when more than one phone is lost in a single incident Assurant will process this as more 
than one claim. 
I acknowledge that Assurant followed their normal process when processing Mr Ss claim. 
But Im not satisfied that the terms and conditions of the policy explain this process to 
customers. Therefore I dont consider that they treated Mr S fairly when they processed his 
two lost phones as two individual claims. Ill explain why. 
Its not in dispute that Mr Ss first successful claim under his policy was made on 17 
September 2021. He paid the excess fee of £100 and his claim was covered.
But when both his phones that were covered under the policy were lost in a single incident 
reported on 25 January 2022, Assurant told Mr S that only the first phone he gave them 
details for could be covered.  Assurants position remains that the correct decision was to 
decline Mr Ss claim for his other phone as they considered it to be the third claim hed made 
in a 12-month period. 
I understand that it is Assurants policy to process claims in this way. And I can see that the 
call handler Mr S spoke to when he made the claim for the two lost phones told him his claim 
would be considered as be two separate claims which would be logged separately. As this is 
Assurants position, I understand why they feel that they fairly declined Mr Ss claim for his 
second phone: in line with the terms and conditions of the insurance policy as this would 
have been a third claim within a rolling twelve month period. But I dont think this is fair or 
reasonable to Mr S. 
I say this because, while I agree that the terms and conditions do preclude more than two 
claims per account holder in any 12-month period, they do not define what a claim is. Nor do 
they explain that the excess will be payable for each individual phone. The terms and 
conditions simply state, on page 19:
Theres a £100 excess for each successful claim.
The terms and conditions also state:
How to make a claim:
 You should tell [policy administrator] about your claim as soon as you can upon 
discovering the incident.
And on page 26:
Some important exclusions
 Excess is £100 for each successful claim.
 No more than 2 successful claims per account holder in any 12 month period.Assurant have agreed with me that the terms and conditions dont specifically state that a 
claim will be considered as more than one claim: if multiple devices are damaged, lost or 
stolen in the same incident. But told me that as a business, this is the process that they 
follow. They confirmed that their process assumes that any customer who claims for two 
phones that were lost, stolen or damaged in the same incident would need to individually 
register the phones when making the claim. 
Assurant also said that the customer: would also expect two separate claim settlements. 
They also said that if the customer received two claim settlements then they would also be 
expected to pay two £100 excess fees. They referred to the terms and conditions here, 
which state: 
 You need to pay a contribution of £100 every time you make a successful claim for loss, 
theft, damage or breakdown, this is the excess. Your excess is payable for every accepted 
claim and must be paid before your claim will be settled.
Mr S doesnt agree with Assurant. He believes that the loss of both phones in the same 
incident should be considered as one claim, with one excess being paid for that claim. 
Assurant accepted that one incident occurred. But said that Mr S had made two claims. And 
that he would expect to receive two claim settlements. 
Ive carefully considered what Assurant and Mr S have said. And the evidence provided. And 
while I acknowledge that Assurants process is to treat a single incident involving more than 
one phone as more than one claim, I dont agree that the terms and conditions allow them to 
do this. I also dont consider that the terms and conditions explain to the customer that this is 
what will happen in a case like this. I say this for a number of reasons. Claim isnt defined 
in the terms and conditions  so I dont agree that Mr S would expect to be making two 
claims for one incident. Or expect to pay two excesses. In fact, the terms and conditions link, 
under How to make a claim, a claim and the incident. So I consider that a reasonable 
reading of the terms and conditions is that one incident will lead to one claim, with one 
excess being payable.
Overall, I dont consider that Assurant have treated Mr S fairly and reasonably. I intend to 
ask them to treat his claim for both phones as one incident. And to charge him one excess 
payment. I do acknowledge that Assurant followed their usual process. But I consider that 
their terms and conditions are not currently worded consistently with that process.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr S accepted my provisional decision. Assurant didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No other new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I 
set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to pay in full Mr Ss claim for both of his lost 
phones. As theyve already covered the cost of the replacement of one of the phones, they 
should now also cover the cost of the replacement of the second phone. They should not 
charge Mr S a second excess payment of £100.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I require Assurant General Insurance 
Limited to take the actions listed in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman