DRN-2333079
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim he made 
under his home and buildings insurance policy. Mr C made a claim for storm damage to his 
roof and internal damage.
What happened
At the end of July 2019 Mr C said there was heavy rainfall and there was water ingress 
through the roof at the rear and at the front of his home. Mr C obtained an estimate for the 
repairs to be carried out and he made a claim to his insurer, Fairmead. 
Fairmead instructed a surveyor to visit and inspect the damage. The surveyor concluded that 
there was no evidence of storm damage to the rear of the roof. He reported that there was 
no evidence of storm damage to the front of the roof either, but there was missing mortar to 
the tiles around the lead valley of the roof. He concluded the damage was due to an 
unknown defect and so not an insurable event. 
Mr C asked us to look at his complaint. He provided us with a letter from a contractor who 
had carried out refurbishment work on the property when Mr C and his family moved there a 
few years before. The contractor confirmed that extensive work was carried out to the roof 
between 2018 and 2019 to bring it to a good condition. 
Our investigator looked at the weather reports and found there was significant rainfall a 
couple of days before Mr C made his claim. And given the information provided by the 
contractor about the previous roof repairs, the investigator thought Fairmead should meet Mr 
Cs claim. 
Fairmead didnt agree. It said the average rainfall wasnt significant. It said the conditions 
didnt meet its definition of storm conditions. 
Our investigator thought it wasnt fair for Fairmead to rely on the average rainfall over a 24 
hour period, as this didnt take into account episodes of heavy rainfall which could cause 
damage. 
Fairmead said it wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We ask three questions when considering storm damage claims to help decide whether an 
insurer has acted in a fair and reasonable way. These are: 
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
Fairmead has provided a copy of the policy document. I cant see that it defines storm 
conditions. But Fairmead has told us:
we consider storm to be strong winds of 41 knots/47 mph or more, sometimes 
accompanied by rain, hail or snow. Heavy or persistent rain alone does not constitute 
storm unless the downpour is torrential (25mm/1 inch or more of rain over a one hour 
period.
Local weather reports show the rainfall over three days as follows:
27 July 2019 - Average hourly rainfall -   3mm, 24 hour rainfall  17.8mm
28 July 2019 -Average hourly rainfall - 6.8mm, 24 hour rainfall  61mm
29 July 2019 - Average hourly rainfall   1.6mm, 24 hour rainfall -  12.4mm.
Fairmead says because the average hourly rainfall was much lower than 25mm, no storm 
conditions existed for the claim to be valid. 
Mr C provided a copy of a weather report from the Met Office detailing the weather 
conditions during the month of July 2019 in his area. This detailed torrential downpours 
across northern England at the end of July 2019. It read:
Thunderstorms from an area of low pressure caused flooding across parts of 
northern England on 30 and 31 July 2019. Intense downpours caused flash-flooding, 
with 40 to 60mm recorded in one hour across parts of North Yorkshire and around 60 
to 80mm or more falling in 2 hours.
The rainfall on 28 July 2019 was significantly higher than the day before and after. I dont 
think its fair in this case to assume  taking everything into account  that the average 
rainfall over a 24 hour period means there wasnt torrential downpours, significant enough to 
be a storm at the time of the event.
Mr C provided a letter in August 2020 from the building contractor who carried out work on 
his property between January 2018 and April 2019  being two months before the damage 
occurred. Mr C said after they moved in they carried out extensive refurbishment to their 
home. 
The contractor wrote:
For best practice we carried out an examination of the roof which was found to be 
generally in good condition. A small number of cracked tiles were replaced , on the 
dormers and areas of moss build up were cleaned . Lead linings and lead flashings 
of two dormers were renewed.
The main areas of weather damage were to three chimney stacks, which were all re 
pointed and lead flashings renewed .
There was no requirement for work to the main roof structure, pantiles, ridge or verge 
tiles,The surveyor reported that rainwater appeared to be coming through between the dormer 
and the chimney at the rear of the roof. He believed the damage was caused by an unknown 
defect. The surveyor assessed that rainwater was ingressing at the lead valley at the front of 
the roof, there is missing mortar to the tiles around the lead valley. He believed the damage 
had occurred due to a natural breakdown of materials and with no evident defects as a result 
of any insurable event.
On balance I think its more likely than not that the main damage was caused by a one off 
storm event, and is consistent with damage a storm typically causes. I dont think its likely 
that the damage was due to a gradual cause. 
So I think Fairmeads decision to decline Mr Cs claim was unfair. Im therefore upholding his 
complaint and think Fairmead should meet Mr Cs claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to deal 
with Mr Cs claim for storm damage. 
If Mr C has already had the damage repaired, I think Fairmead should reimburse him for the 
costs incurred, plus interest at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date he paid for it 
to the date of reimbursement.
Mr C should provide Fairmead with any invoices or receipts for these repairs. If no receipts 
are available, Fairmead should pay what it reasonably wouldve paid to have the damage 
repaired.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman