DRN-2029201
complaint
Mrs S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money she lost when she fell victim to a 
scam.
background
In March 2019, Mrs S made a credit card payment of £2,459.91 via an international payment 
service to an individual claiming to offer holiday accommodation.
Mrs S found the accommodation on, what she believed to be, a well-known and established 
travel website. However, the day after making the payment, Mrs S tried to view the website 
again and found it no longer existed. At this point Mrs S realised the website was a spoof of 
a genuine company and that shed been the victim of a scam. She contacted Lloyds on 
11 March 2019 to raise a fraud claim.
Lloyds temporarily refunded Mrs S while it raised a chargeback against the international 
payment service, but this was successfully defended. Lloyds re-debited Mrs Ss account in 
August 2019.
Mrs S complained to Lloyds. She said she paid by credit card because of the additional 
protection it provides and had never heard of the international payment service referred to.
Lloyds said that as it had attempted a chargeback which had been successfully defended, it 
had exhausted all available options to recover Mrs Ss money. Unhappy with the response 
from Lloyds, Mrs S contacted this service.
An investigator looked into things but didnt think Lloyds could have done anything to prevent 
the scam  he didnt consider the payment Mrs S made was particularly out of the ordinary, 
or so unusual that it shouldve raised Lloyds suspicions. And he didnt think that there were 
any other options available to Lloyds to recover the funds.
Mrs S didnt accept our investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This was an authorised payment even though Mrs S was the victim of a sophisticated 
scam. She requested for the payment to be made so, although she did not intend the money 
to go to the scammer (or via an international payment service), under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Mrs S is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably: 
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and preventing 
fraud and scams. 
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly so 
given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mrs S when she carried out this payment to a fraudster, or whether it should have done 
more than it did.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mrs S, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that this money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully 
about Lloyds actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the payment to be 
made from Mrs Ss credit card, so I cant fairly say Lloyds should reimburse Mrs S the 
money she lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain why.
Mrs S has accepted that she authorised the payment of £2,459.91 herself (albeit not 
realising there was an additional payment service involved). Because of this, Lloyds had an 
obligation to follow her instruction. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the payment  as Ive 
explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Lloyds shouldve been on the lookout 
for unusual and out of character transactions.
Having said that, Ive also considered that this payment was made on Mrs Ss credit card 
and by their nature, credit cards are often used for larger value purchases. Having reviewed 
Mrs Ss account activity for the 12-month period leading up to the scam, I can see this was 
the largest payment made in that period, but that Mrs S was regularly using her credit card to 
make payments before the scam took place. This wasnt an excessively large value payment 
and Mrs S was still within her agreed spending limit following the scam. Taking everything 
into account, I dont think that this transaction was so unusual that I can say Lloyds acted 
unreasonably in not making enquiries about the payment before processing it.
Ive considered whether there were any other avenues available to Lloyds to recover Mrs Ss 
funds. Lloyds did attempt a chargeback, but this was defended by the international payment 
service that received Mrs Ss payment. As this payment service was solely responsible for 
transferring Mrs Ss funds to the beneficiary account  which it did  I dont think further 
action by Lloyds would have had any prospects of success. 
I do feel considerable sympathy for what Mrs S has been through here. But unfortunately, 
Im not persuaded that this was a consequence of any specific failing on the part of Lloyds  
so whilst Im sorry to have to disappoint her, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Lloyds 
to refund the loss.   my final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman