DRN-3798089
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Domestic & General Insurance Plc following the replacement of a 
broken washing machine. Mr B doesnt accept the replacement machine as it doesnt have 
all the same functions as his previous machine. The claim was made under a household 
warranty.
What happened
When the washing machine was replaced there were problems with the installation and 
damage was caused to Mr Bs property. D&G said the damage to the property wasnt its 
responsibility. It said Mr B would need to resolve any issues with the delivery and installation 
company as this wasnt covered by the warranty and it was a separate service. D&G did 
refund the charges for delivery and installation. In terms of the washing machine D&G said 
the main specifications were the same as Mr Bs previous machine and said Mr B chose it. 
D&G said the machine provided was in line with the warranty terms and conditions. It said 
the new machine wasnt faulty or damaged, it was installed and used and so couldnt now be 
replaced. As agreement couldnt be reached Mr B brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He accepted there had been issues with the 
installation and delivery. But he also accepted D&Gs point that this was a separate service 
and not its responsibility. Our investigator noted the terms and conditions confirmed the 
machine couldnt be returned if it had been used. He noted that Mr B had said it had been 
used during a call with D&G.
Mr B remained unhappy and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr B has now raised a point about the customer service he received when he called 
and spoke to D&G. Our investigator said he would set up a new complaint to deal with that 
issue, so I make no finding on the point here.
Mr B said he tried to call as soon as he realised the machine wasnt what he wanted in 
replacement. He pointed out that the call centre was shut and so he had to wait over the 
weekend to make contact with D&G the following Monday. He said that was the only reason 
he was outside the time referred to in the terms and conditions for a replacement to be 
arranged. As part of our investigation our investigator rang D&G to check this and was told 
the line was open to calls 7 days a week from 8am to 8 pm.
D&G accepted Mr B wasnt happy with the delivery and installation. And it did refund him the 
costs he paid towards this. But it did point out that this wasnt part of the warranty.
D&G made several points about why it wasnt willing to replace the machine. It said the 
machine wasnt damaged or faulty. It said the installation had been completed and that Mr B 
had confirmed the machine had been used. For all of these reasons it said the machine 
wouldnt be replaced and it felt it had carried out the requirements of the warranty.
D&G said that Mr B had been given different options for the replacement washing machine 
and it was his choice. Mt B was unhappy that the new machine didnt have a function 
confirming how long the washing cycle had left to run. He said without this he didnt accept 
the new machine. D&G said the specifications were very similar and it offered the various 
machine options to Mr B before he chose. Based on the details I think that D&G dealt with 
the issues reasonably and fairly and in line with the wording of the warranty.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Domestic & General Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman