DRN-4003191
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by UTMOST LIFE AND PENSIONS LIMITED (ULP) 
to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
Mr D is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr D.
What happened
Mr D held deferred benefits in a DB pension which he accrued working for an employer 
between November 1967 and October 1994. 
Mr D says he was approached by ULP about potentially transferring his pension benefits. 
ULP says that Mr D approached it about a transfer. This disagreement notwithstanding, Ive 
seen evidence that a form was signed in November 1994, by both Mr D and a representative 
of ULP, indicating Mr D was interested in obtaining a quotation for a personal pension. The 
form gave ULP authority to request the relevant information from the trustees of his DB 
scheme.
On 12 December 1994, the DB scheme provided a transfer value quotation (TVQ). This 
noted that the normal retirement age of the DB scheme was 65 and said that the cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) was £15,959.00. 
ULP issued a pension illustration to Mr D on 6 March 1995. This set out examples of what he 
might receive at retirement from a personal pension depending on different levels of growth.
ULP has provided a copy of a handwritten letter, signed by Mr D, from 12 May 1995. This 
said I am writing this letter to inform you that I wish to change from [DB scheme] fund as 
quickly as possible to [personal pension provider]. As myself and my wife are not happy at 
all with the overall performance of the [DB scheme] pension fund and specially the clause 
where my wife if I die before retirement age, does not receive a pension, only receives my 
contributions back. And we feel [personal pension provider] representative has explained all 
the options available. It would be much more beneficial to be with [personal pension 
provider].
Ive been provided with a copy of a fact find, signed by Mr D and ULP, on the same day as 
this handwritten letter, where information was recorded about his circumstances. This 
recorded that he was 47, married with no other dependents, and not working, due to recent 
redundancy. It was indicated that Mr D hoped to retire at age 60. The DB pension was 
recorded though as being Mr Ds only retirement provision. The fact find also recorded that 
Mr Ds attitude to investment risk was cautious.
Transfer value analysis (TVAS) reports were produced by ULP. They included a calculation 
of the critical yield - the annual growth rate required of a new pension to allow Mr D to 
purchase, at retirement, equivalent benefits to those the DB scheme guaranteed to provide. 
All of the reports Ive been provided said, for retiring at age 65 and taking a full pension, the 
critical yield was 12.6%. The TVAS reports quoted different critical yields for retirement at 
age 60. These ranged from 12.2  14.1%.
An internal memo from ULP dated 24 May 1995 noted that a personal pension would have 
to perform consistently well to exceed the critical yields (quoting the critical yield for early 
retirement as being 13.8%). This noted that Mr D attitude was cautious but a transfer would 
be quite adventurous. It said the author felt ULP should be saying stay put. It went on to 
say If the client is Insistent upon transferring, he should be saying that he is going against 
the advice of the representative. The representative has not given any advice either way. 
And closed by saying Upon receipt of the clients signed and dated Insistence the transfer 
will receive further attention.
Following this memorandum, the fact find was re-signed on 15 June 1995. The declaration to 
which noted Irrespective of the advice given and the representation made by the 
Representative, we chose to take out the policy(ies) as detailed in Type(s) of Policy Sold 
and the attached Reason Why Letter.
A pension transfers-in & opt-outs checklist was also completed on 15 June 1995. This 
summarised that A major reason for Mr D to opt out is that should he die his wife would only 
get £5,960 from the [DB] scheme and while PPP [personal pension] would be L/S (lump 
sum) plus pension. This is a very important factor to him. The early retirement penalty is very 
heavy therefore not being flexible in [DB] scheme. All in all client very unhappy with [DB] 
scheme, after so many years of service and acting against my advice wishes to go ahead 
with transfer. See original reason why letter date 12/5/95 plus new letter for full report. 
Finally a Reasons Why Letter was completed and signed by ULP and Mr D on the same 
day. This was a printed form with the ULPs advisers handwritten comments inserted. It said:
I have advised Mr D not to proceed with the transfer on the grounds that the [DB] pension 
shows better projection benefits at retirement at age 65 on all but the higher growth rate. 
Despite his relatively cautious attitude he still insists on proceeding with the transfer for the 
following reasons.
1) The [DB] scheme provides no spouses pension in the event of death before 
retirement.
2) He feels the LPI mid rate projection of 4  5% pa is unlikely to be achieved in the 
near future. Economists estimate 1995 and 1996 RPI to be less than 3%.
3) There are severe penalties of 8% pa for early retirement from [DB] scheme.
4) He has discussed 3&4 above with [DB] scheme trustees.
5) He has little confidence in the [DB] scheme as a whole.
6) The personal pension option can provide added retirement flexibility.
7) The [DB] scheme is also a 100th scheme.
See attached clients letter.
The attached clients letter seems to be the earlier handwritten letter from 12 May 1995, from 
before any advice was provided.
There was a further internal memorandum on 26 June 1995, noting that, although it had 
been noted Mr D didnt have adequate life cover, that no recommendation had been made in 
this regard. 
Also on 26 June 1995, ULP sent Mr D another letter. This said it was in reference to his 
request to transfer his benefits and said it was essential that Mr D fully understood the implications of this. It explained, once payment had been made from the DB scheme, the 
scheme was under no obligation to accept the money back in the event Mr D wished to 
cancel. So, ULP enclosed copies of draft cancellation notices for Mr D to read and consider 
the matter again. Copies of the draft cancellation notices havent been provided. 
There was though a declaration to confirm these had been read. This said having read 
and fully understood the contents and implications of the draft cancellation notices issued to 
me, hereby declare that I wish/do not wish * to proceed with the transfer of deferred pension 
benefits from [DB scheme] to [personal pension provider]. I understand that once payment of 
the transfer value is received from [DB scheme] they will be under no obligation whatsoever 
to accept payment back into their scheme should I later change my mind. The note said in 
respect of the section marker * to delete as appropriate. Mr D signed this declaration on 
7 July 1995, although I note neither option was deleted.
The transfer completed in August 1995.
I understand Mr D moved his personal pension to a different provider around the year 2000.
Mr D complained to ULP in May 2022. He said he thought the transfer was unsuitable as 
hed lost all accrued and future guaranteed benefits as a result. He said he was an 
inexperienced investor who didnt understand the implications of the transfer and if these 
had been properly explained to him, he wouldnt have gone ahead.
ULP said it had advised Mr D against transferring, but he had chosen to proceed despite this 
advice. And Mr D had indicated at the time the transfer had been fully explained. So ULP 
didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mr D asked our service to consider the complaint. He said he didnt know hed been treated 
as an insistent client in 1995 and had just signed the documentation that the adviser had 
presented to him. His representative added that in their experience, letters like the 
handwritten one Mr D signed were often dictated by advisers and argued Mr D didnt have 
the knowledge to make the statements in the letter without encouragement.
ULP confirmed separately that it consented to our service considering the complaint.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. She thought it should be upheld and that 
ULP should compensate Mr D for any loss the DB transfer had led to. She didnt think a 
transfer was in Mr Ds best interests and thought he was always unlikely to improve on the 
guaranteed benefits the DB scheme provided. She noted Mr D had signed a handwritten 
letter indicating he wished to proceed. But she noted this was before any advice had been 
given. So, she didnt think he was in a position to decide at that point. And she didnt think 
ULP had done enough to ensure that he was in an informed position after that. So, she didnt 
think Mr D was an insistent client, and if hed been provided clearer advice, didnt think hed 
have gone ahead.
ULP disagreed. It said that the information from the time documented that Mr D had clear 
reasons for wanting to proceed. And it felt it demonstrated that he was insistent.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time the 
advice was given. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The advice was provided in 1995. At that time the adviser was regulated by the Personal 
Investment Authority (PIA). Based on the information Ive seen I understand the adviser 
was previously a member of the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation 
(LAUTRO). And it was tied to or could only sell products from a certain provider. When the 
PIA took responsibility for LAUTRO businesses in 1994, they adopted the LAUTRO rules. 
These adopted rules applied at the time of the advice in this case.
The LAUTRO rules required ULP to make Mr D aware up front it could only sell products 
from the range the specific provider offered. It had to exercise due skill, care and diligence, 
deal fairly with Mr D, take into account his financial position generally and all other relevant 
circumstances and to give best advice. This included that it couldnt make inaccurate or 
unfair criticisms of other products. Nor could it advise someone to cancel an existing product 
unless it genuinely believed doing so to be in the consumers best interests and it had clearly 
disclosed the relevant consequences and disadvantages. However, none of this went as far 
as meaning that the adviser could just sell the least unsuitable contract from within the 
providers range. 
Was transferring I Mr Ds best interests?
Having looked at all the evidence available, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Ds best 
interests.
ULP recorded that Mr D was unhappy with the performance of the DB pension fund. And 
that he didnt expect the LPI, which revaluation of the DB scheme was linked to, to be 
particularly high. ULP also recorded a comment in relation to economists predictions at the 
time. 
From the information Ive seen, Mr D appears to have been an inexperienced investor. And 
Im not sure hed have necessarily been in a position to speculate about the future growth 
rate of the DB scheme. In any event though, a personal pension growing at a rate in excess 
of the rate at which the DB scheme benefits revalued wouldnt have meant Mr D would be 
better off in retirement. The personal pension would have to grow by in excess of the critical 
yield for that to happen. So, if this was a genuine statement by Mr D, Id have expected to 
see some evidence that ULP had addressed this objection and provided an explanation  in 
order to show that it had dealt fairly with Mr D and made him fully aware of the relevant 
disadvantages. But I cant see that this was addressed, from the information that Ive seen.
ULP carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ds pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the regulator was publishing 'discount rates' 
for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the guaranteed pension at the normal 
retirement age of the DB scheme, 65, was quoted as 12.6% per year. This compares with 
the discount rate of 10.3% per year for 17 full years to retirement.
The critical yield to match the benefits available at early retirement at age 60 was quoted as 
being between 12.2  14.1%. Which compares with a discount rate of 10.0% for 12 full years 
to retirement.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 12%, the middle 
projection rate 9%, and the lower projection rate 6%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ds 
cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr D 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, I think Mr D was always likely to 
receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a 
result of investing in line with his recorded attitude to risk. 
So, from a financial viability perspective, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Ds best interests. 
And the information from the time indicates that ULP agreed with this.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. 
The fact find recorded that Mr D was interested in potentially retiring at age 60. And the 
Reasons Why Letter added that a personal pension would provide additional flexibility, 
noting the severe penalties for early retirement.
It is true that if Mr D drew his benefits before the normal retirement age of the DB scheme, 
the pension hed receive would be subject to actuarial reduction. But an actuarial reduction is 
intended to reflect the pension benefits being paid for longer. The starting monetary amount 
when compared with the full pension payable from age 65  the normal scheme retirement 
age  wouldve been less. But by retiring early Mr D wouldve been receiving his pension for 
longer. It was a trade-off, rather than a penalty. 
In addition, based on the critical yield ULP calculated for early retirement, it again appeared 
unlikely that hed improve on the guaranteed benefits the DB scheme wouldve provided in 
the event he retired early, even after the actuarial reduction. 
Despite this ULP made references to this being a penalty in its handwritten notes. And I cant 
see that it gave an appropriately balanced explanation.
In any event though, at the time of the advice, Mr D was 47 and was over 12 years from 
when he thought he might retire. And so, while Mr D mightve had a plan in mind, given the 
time until he was intending to retire, I dont think those plans were finalised and couldve 
been subject to change, just as his circumstances and needs may have altered. On top of 
this, I cant see that ULP recorded anything about his expected retirement income needs. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think a transfer in order to achieve greater flexibility 
was in Mr Ds best interests at the time.
ULP noted that death benefits were one of the reasons that Mr D was keen to transfer as, under the DB scheme, if he died before retirement, his wife would only receive a lump sum 
return of premiums. Whereas a personal pension would potentially provide a lump sum and 
a pension income.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are 
important to consumers, and Mr D might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB 
scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr D about 
what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide 
income in retirement. 
The fact find ULP has provided recorded the DB scheme was Mr Ds only retirement 
provision and suggested he already lacked adequate provisions for retirement. So, giving up 
his guaranteed benefits for the purpose of alternative death benefits doesnt seem to have 
been in his best interests. And I cant see from the information that has been provided that 
ULP challenged this as a reason for proceeding  rather it just recorded this as something 
Mr D had said. Id have expected to see some analysis and explanation to explain why this 
wasnt in his interests  in order to demonstrate that it had taken account of his 
circumstances and addressed the relevant disadvantages and risks.
Furthermore, if Mr D genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse in the event of his 
death, life insurance couldve been explored. Indeed, ULPs internal memo on 26 June 1995 
noted a recommendation about this was appropriate and indicated surprise it hadnt yet been 
given. ULP however recorded that this would instead be looked at soon once Mr D 
returned to work. But I think without exploring this alternative at the time, ULP failed to deal 
clearly with Mr D or put him in a position to fully understand the alternatives when 
considering the potential disadvantages of a transfer.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D. 
ULP says Mr D was dissatisfied in general with the DB scheme and did not want his pension 
to remain with it. The reason for this dissatisfaction seems in part to be related to 
performance and death benefits, which as Ive already explained, I dont think meant 
transferring was in Mr Ds best interests. But I also think this dissatisfaction is likely to have 
partly been because Mr D had been recently made redundant by the business which 
sponsored the DB scheme. 
While though I understand Mr D mightve felt he wanted a clean break from his former 
employer, that wasnt in my view, a valid reason to transfer  particularly as it seems likely 
hed have been worse off in retirement. Ive also seen nothing to suggest that the funding 
position of the DB scheme was in a position such that Mr D should have genuinely been 
concerned about the security of his pension. But again, I cant see that ULP substantially 
addressed this, which I think it ought to have done if it was acting in his best interests.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Ds best interests.
The advice given by ULP and whether Mr D was an insistent client
ULP says it advised Mr D against transferring. And I can see that in its internal memo on 
24 May 1995 it was recorded that it was felt the advice should be to stay put. But, based on 
everything Ive seen, I dont think that advice was made clear to Mr D here. Certainly not to 
the extent I wouldve expected it to have been.
The main section of the Reasons Why Letter is titled Representatives Report and says it is for the adviser to summarise the advantages and disadvantages as well as the reasons the 
client wishes to proceed. But very little of the information recorded is about the reasons for 
ULPs advice. It says, I have advised Mr D not to proceed with the transfer on the grounds 
that the [DB] pension shows better projection benefits at retirement at age 65 on all but the 
higher growth rate. But there is no further reasoning provided beyond that. There is no 
commentary addressing the issues Ive covered above about why the reasons Mr D 
apparently wished to transfer did not make doing so in his best interests.
It is true that Mr D signed a copy of this form, indicating the contents were accurate. But 
given the majority of the comments related to why he was looking to proceed, with no 
rationale why that wasnt in his interests, the reasoning was, in my view, not complete. And I 
dont think this is enough to say that ULP had communicated with him clearly or fairly, or that 
he understood its advice.
And I cant see that there was any further reference in the documentation provided by ULP 
advising against a transfer. None of the written notes in the fact-find, which was returned to 
Mr D for a further signature, refer to ULP advising for or against a transfer. The Pension 
transfer in & opt-outs checklist also makes no reference to any reasons for ULPs 
recommendation. The letter ULP sent to Mr D in June 1995, where it provided draft 
cancellation notices also makes no reference to what ULPs advice was. It talks about Mr D 
needing to understand the implications and likely not being able to go back once a transfer 
was made, but there were no further warnings that ULP didnt think a transfer was in his 
interests. And the accompanying declaration didnt include an acknowledgement that Mr D 
was acting against advice.
There may have been discussions between the adviser and Mr D. But no records have been 
provided to show what was discussed, or to confirm and corroborate any information or 
rationale that was shared verbally. So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think I can fairly say 
ULP made its advice as clear as it should have, or that it explained its rationale, in reference 
to the consequences of transferring, in the level of detail Id have expected.
As a result, although Mr D signed forms at the time, I dont think ULP put him in a position to 
make an informed decision in relation to the advice given. 
In addition, I share the Investigators concerns about whether Mr D was truly an insistent 
client. 
The handwritten letter from 12 May 1995 does indicate that Mr D wanted to proceed with a 
transfer and the reasons for this. But the letter also indicated that this was on the basis that 
ULP had explained his options to him. ULP however acknowledged, in its memo of 24 May 
1995 that this letter was drafted before it had provided Mr D with advice. So, when that letter 
was written, ULP hadnt told Mr D it advised against a transfer (and indeed as Ive explained 
I dont think it was subsequently clear about this). Moreover, the letter indicates that him 
wanting to proceed was on the basis of information the adviser had discussed. Which 
suggests firstly that Mr D understood at that point that the adviser was potentially endorsing 
a transfer as being suitable. And that Mr D may have been led by these discussions rather 
than having already decided to transfer.
I acknowledge that Mr D subsequently signed several forms saying he did want to transfer. 
But, from what Ive seen, none of these explained the risks involved in any great detail. 
Which, given Mr D was an inexperienced investor, I think wouldve been fair. And the forms 
simply repeated the reasons for transferring first listed in the handwritten letter, which as Ive 
explained I dont think necessarily reflect Mr Ds starting position and dont appear to have 
been suitably robustly challenged by ULP. They didnt provide any further reason for wanting 
to proceed or why Mr D was ignoring ULPs, after is says this was explained to him. This is something Id have expected to see if Mr D was an insistent client and is something that ULP 
said Mr D should document. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Mr D was in a position to make an informed 
decision about whether to proceed as an insistent client  something he says he was 
unaware ULP had treated him as.
Would Mr D have acted differently?
While I think there were failings in the advice process by ULP, I have to consider whether 
Mr D would've gone ahead anyway as an insistent client, if clearer advice had been 
provided.
As Ive noted, Mr D did sign a handwritten letter indicating that he wanted to proceed with a 
transfer, primarily because of unhappiness about death benefits and the scheme in general. 
But, as Ive said, I havent seen evidence to support that ULP did enough to address these 
things or explain why a transfer wasnt in his best interests for these reasons. And if this had 
been properly addressed, Im not persuaded that Mr D wouldve insisted on transferring out 
of the DB scheme, against ULPs advice. I say this because Mr D was an inexperienced 
investor with a cautious attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the majority of his 
retirement provision. So, if ULP had provided him with clear advice against transferring out 
of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted 
that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ds concerns about the death benefits or his potential animosity 
towards his former employer were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing 
that a professional adviser, whose expertise he was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for 
him or in his best interests. I think a properly reasoned explanation by ULP wouldve carried 
significant weight. So, I dont think Mr D would have insisted on transferring out of the DB 
scheme.
As a result, I think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld and that ULP should compensate him 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
ULP must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, I understand Mr D retired at age 58. So, compensation should be based on him 
taking benefits at this age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, ULP should:
always calculate and offer Mr D redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr D before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr D receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr D accepts ULPs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr D for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ds end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr D as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, ULP may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ds likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require UTMOST LIFE AND 
PENSIONS LIMITED to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
UTMOST LIFE AND PENSIONS LIMITED pays Mr D the balance.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on UTMOST LIFE AND 
PENSIONS LIMITED.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 Ben Stoker
Ombudsman