DRN-4381788
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) provided misleading 
information about the effective date a fund switch would be processed. Shes unhappy with 
the way fund switches are handled as consumers dont have certainty about the price. 
To put things right she seeks reimbursement of her losses arising from Avivas pricing of her 
fund switches, total reimbursement of all fees paid since she moved her pension plans to 
Aviva, a refund of the mortgage interest she continues to incur, and additional compensation 
for the stress and extreme inconvenience caused by Avivas failure to resolve her complaint.
What happened
Mrs R has a pension plan with Aviva which was previously a workplace scheme which she 
retained when she left that employment.
In December 2020/January 2021 Mrs R consolidated and transferred pension plans totalling 
around £205,395 from three other providers to her Aviva plan. At the relevant time her Aviva 
New Generation personal pension plan held 16,715 units in the Baillie Gifford American 
(BGA) index fund (risk rating 9). 
On Friday 5 November 2021 Mrs R telephoned Aviva to give instructions to switch her entire 
plan to BlackRock Sterling Liquidity (BRSL) fund (risk rating 1). As she had called before 
close of business, she expected to receive the prevailing price of that day. In fact, Aviva 
processes fund switch instructions the following working day. The fund alteration statement 
showed the switch had been actioned on Monday 8 November 2021 after the unit price had 
changed, resulting in a fall of around £8,148 in her plan value. 
Mrs R was aware investments can rise and fall but had timed her fund switch after careful 
research and monitoring of the market. So she feels its unfair that as she gave her 
instructions before 5pm that days price didnt apply. She says this wasnt made clear when 
she called, or in the client literature about her plan, meaning switching is a gamble. Had 
she understood the way Aviva operates she wouldnt have instructed the switch at all. 
Subsequently, she discovered Avivas pricing strategy had also worked to her detriment in 
2020 when she originally switched from the fund she was in (BNY Mellon Consolidated 
Growth Lifetime) to BGA. On that occasion shed emailed a completed switch form on 23 
November 2020, but when Aviva processed it the following day the unit price had risen, 
meaning she purchased fewer units. Mrs R says if shed known Avivas switching policy she 
wouldnt have transferred her other plans to Aviva in the first place. And until her policy value 
is restored, she cant switch funds or withdraw the tax-free lump sum which she intended to 
use to repay her mortgage, so shes incurring mortgage interest unnecessarily. 
Mrs R complained to Aviva in November 2021 that the way it handles fund switches 
breaches the regulatory principle of treating customers fairly.
Avivas response in January 2022 explained that it had taken a business decision to use 
effective price dates for telephoned fund switches on Mrs Rs product. This was because 
theyd become aware of a market exploit used by some customers.  The letter set out the 
following explanation:
a) For telephone switches before 5pm well use the effective price of the next working 
day
b) For telephone switches received after 5pm well consider these calls as being 
received the next working day. For example a call at 6pm on working day 1 will be 
given the prices as at working day 3, usually processed on working day 4. 
Aviva admitted its staff had given Mrs R incorrect information in three phone calls 2, 5 and 9 
November 2021, so it apologised for this, offering compensation of £150, and assured Mrs R 
training would be given to ensure the right information was provided in future. But it wouldnt 
agree to honour the unit price on 5 November 2021, as Mrs R was never entitled to that.
In January 2022 Mrs R referred her complaint to this service, setting out her expectations in 
terms of redress. She reiterated that had she been made aware of Avivas approach to fund 
switches she wouldnt have moved her pension plans to Aviva, which shed chosen believing 
it offered the best customer service and range of investment funds.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in July 2023 in which I made the following 
findings (in summary):
Aviva is entitled to use effective price dates for switch instructions received by phone. It 
doesnt offer same-day pricing for pension plan fund switches and never has.
Section 4.6.3 of the terms and conditions for Mrs Rs plan which relates to Telling us to 
switch units already in your plan says the following:
We will normally base the value of the switched units on the price of the units on the 
working day we receive your written instructions. 
Any method of accepting instructions other than written instructions, for example by email 
or fax, will be subject to our agreement, and the use of a later price relative to the time of 
receiving those instructions. 
I explained that written instructions was defined in the glossary section as instructions sent 
by post to Avivas administration headquarters based in Salisbury. In 2021 Mrs R had given 
her instructions by telephone, and I said that meant acceptance of such instructions was 
subject to Avivas agreement, and a later price than for written instructions would apply. But 
even if Mrs R had given her instructions in writing, shed have no way of knowing exactly 
when theyd be received or what price would apply. 
Mrs R called Aviva on Tuesday 2 November 2021 to ask about the process for instructing a 
fund switch. She was given a plan valuation and unit price as of close the previous day, 
which she was told wasnt guaranteed and could change. Mrs R was recommended to seek 
financial advice, to which she replied yes we have. She was told if she phoned her 
instructions theyd be processed the following day, at todays price, which appears to be 
where the misunderstanding arose. 
Mrs R called again on Friday 5 April 2021 and a different call handler gave her a higher plan 
valuation, based on close yesterday. Mrs R said she wanted to switch 100% of the plan 
value into BRSL. After checking shed instructed switches before and recommending she 
take financial advice, the call handler explained the switch would be processed on the next 
working day (Monday) and would take two working days to process. Mrs R confirmed she 
understood when the call handler clarified the plan wouldnt disinvest until Monday, using 
todays price. 
So I said while it wouldve been helpful if Aviva had explained its effective day pricing more 
clearly, in that call Mrs R had been given the correct information about when the switch 
would be processed, and the days price which would be used. Mrs R hadnt asked for the actual unit price which would apply, but even if she had, Aviva wouldnt yet know what price 
would apply when the switch was processed.
As Mrs R had expanded her complaint to include the original switch from BNY Mellon into 
the BGA fund, I listened to two calls Mrs R had with Aviva on 23 November 2020, in which 
she explained she wanted to carry out a fund switch and also transfer other plans to Aviva. 
Much of the first call related to the process for transferring in her plans from other providers 
to Aviva. But Mrs R did ask how long it would take to process a switch request which she 
intended to email. The call handler explained that if the emailed switch instruction was 
received before 5pm it would be processed using the price for the next working day. But if it 
was received after 5pm or she called after the phone lines had closed it would be processed 
two working days later, which is correct.
Later that afternoon, Mrs R called to check Aviva had received her emailed switch 
instructions, as she hadnt received an acknowledgement. She was told by a different call 
handler that Aviva may take a few days to deal with the instruction, but it would be 
processed as at the date of receipt. The remainder of the call focussed on the transfer-in 
process. I said I thought the call handers intention here was to reassure Mrs R she wouldnt 
be disadvantaged if Aviva delayed processing her instructions. But overall I thought while 
Avivas communication about its pricing policy could have been clearer, Mrs R had been 
aware the applicable price would be as at close of business the day after Aviva received her 
instructions.
I agreed with our investigator that our role isnt to make a business honour its mistake. 
Rather we aim to put someone in the position they would have been in, had the error not 
happened. So if Mrs R had been left in no doubt switch instructions whether given by phone 
or email received before 5pm would be processed the following working day using the close 
of business price, I thought Mrs R would still have gone ahead with the switch. And it made 
no sense for Aviva to unwind the switch, as it calculated her plan value would be significantly 
lower if she hadnt switched out of BGA when she did. 
I understood why Mrs R was unhappy at the gamble of giving instructions without knowing 
the applicable price, but I didnt think that meant she been treated unfairly. Mrs R hadnt 
been given an incorrect price, she wasnt told any price, as the advisers couldnt know what 
it would be. And I thought the switch process wouldve been explained by the financial 
adviser she confirmed she consulted in 2020 and 2021. I wasnt persuaded the switching 
policy wouldve been the deciding factor in her decision to transfer her other plans to Aviva. 
As Mrs R had been given the correct information about when the switches would be 
processed on 5 November 2021 and 23 November 2020 I didnt think it would be fair or 
reasonable to ask Aviva to backdate either switch to the day of receipt of the instructions, as 
theyd been processed correctly. There was no reason to refund any plan charges, and it 
was Mrs Rs choice not to take her PCLS and delay repaying her mortgage. I thought Avivas 
communication about its switch process could have been clearer to avoid any 
misunderstanding, but £150 was fair to reflect this.
So my provisional decision was I didnt uphold the complaint, but Aviva should pay Mrs R 
£150, if it hadnt already done so. 
Responses to the provisional decision
Both parties responded. Aviva confirmed it had nothing to add.Mrs R responded in detail, and also made a complaint about the service shed received 
which has been responded to separately. In relation to the provisional decision she made the 
following points (in summary):
The ombudsman has misunderstood Avivas pricing strategy and misrepresented her 
understanding of it. Switch instructions are processed on day 2 using the price as at 
the close of business on day 2, not the close on day 1 (day of receipt).
Avivas terms and conditions are incomprehensible in relation to fund switches, and 
they have taken a business decision to depart from them. 
The only place their effective day pricing strategy is set out was the final response 
letter.
Aviva has breached FCA guidance COBS 4.2 as they havent communicated in a 
way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
She wasnt given accurate information when she called, and had she known about 
the two-day lag she would have acted much earlier when instructing each fund 
switch.
She wouldnt have transferred her other plans to Aviva, shed have found another 
provider with a more transparent switching process.
Unit prices cannot be viewed in the Aviva online account, Mrs R was monitoring live 
market fund prices via a third-party system.
Its ridiculous to expect switch instructions to be sent by post, as this exposes 
customers to market risk.
The ombudsman has shown bias towards Aviva, and the correct outcome is for the 
complaint to be upheld. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I apologise if I misrepresented Mrs Rs understanding of Avivas pricing strategy in the 
provisional decision, I have corrected this in the final decision. I have also removed any 
reference to the unit prices being visible in the Aviva online account if this is not the case. 
Mrs R says Aviva does not carry out fund switches in accordance with its terms and 
conditions. I agree the terms and conditions dont mention the effective day pricing strategy, 
nor do they include any reference to telephone instructions, and I suggested they should be 
updated. But they do set out how written switch instructions (received by post) will be 
processed, and state that instructions received by any other method will be processed 
subject to Avivas agreement using a later price relative to the date of receipt. The examples 
given for other methods include email and fax. Telephone instructions are not specified, but
I think its reasonable to say telephone is another method by which instructions can be given, 
and so the any other method process would apply to telephoned instructions. And while 
they dont give complete clarity, I dont think the terms and conditions are unfair or 
misleading, so I dont consider they breach COBS 4.2.
I understand Mrs Rs dissatisfaction at the lack of clarity about the applicable price, 
regardless of which method is used to give switch instructions. While it may not be possible 
to know when Aviva would receive written instructions, there is certainty about the delivery 
date of an email or when a phone call is received. Yet in each case, the effective price on 
the processing date couldnt be known in advance. I said in the provisional decision that instructions received before 5pm on day 1 will be 
processed the following day (day 2) using the price as at the close of business on day 1. Mrs 
R says this isnt true, and that instructions received on day 1 are processed on day 2 using 
the price as at the close on day 2 (the day after receipt) as set out in the final response. As 
Mrs R suggests she took the decision to instruct the switches based on the incorrect 
information she was given, I listened again to the calls on 2 and 5 November 2021 to check 
exactly what was said. 
In the 2 November call in which Mrs R was making enquiries about how she could give 
switch instructions, she was told the switch would be processed at a later date using 
todays price. While she didnt know what it would be, I think it was reasonably clear it 
would be different from the unit price shed been quoted, which was as at close of business 
the previous day. And she was also told the valuation shed been given wasnt guaranteed 
and could change.  
The plan valuation Mrs R was given on 5 November was around £3,300 higher than on 2 
November. In the 5 November call Mrs R gave her switch instructions, and the handler was 
careful to explain the funds wouldnt be disinvested that day, but on the next working day 
being Monday (8th) using the price as at the close of business on Monday, and the switch 
would take two days to process. I think this was the correct information. Mrs Rs is unlikely to 
have been the only transaction regarding the BGA fund that day, so it was always possible 
that other sell instructions already in progress and during the day, would mean the unit 
price would be lower by the time Mrs Rs switch was processed. But Mrs R didnt ask what 
price shed get, although even if she had, I dont think Aviva wouldve been able to tell her. 
Nor did she say she only wished to proceed with the switch out of BGA if the fund value was 
the same as shed been quoted or higher. Mrs R may have thought shed timed her switch 
out of BGA just right, but she took the decision to switch herself, Aviva didnt advise her what 
to do, and she confirmed shed taken financial advice. She was given unclear information 
about the timing of a switch in the 2 November call. But on 5 November when she actually 
gave her switch instructions, she was given the right information about how and when the 
switch would be processed. 
In November 2020 Mrs R emailed her instructions to switch her fund out of the BNY Mellon 
Consolidation Growth Lifetime fund, which her workplace plan had been invested in, and into 
BGA. Mrs R called Aviva on 23 November, and the call handler told her the switch would be 
processed the next working day after receipt. Mrs R emailed the form on 23 November, and 
it was processed the following day, as confirmed in the Fund Alteration statement dated 24 
November 2020. So I cant see Mrs R was misled on that occasion. 
I clarified with Aviva the process and timing of fund switches. It said the following:
We never do same day pricing. This is not something we have done or ever will as we 
operate end of day pricing and not live pricing. We can never give a customer a price they 
will get as we use the price at the end of the day the instruction is received. So received 23 
Nov actioned 24 Nov using end of 23 Nov price. We have never changed this process. 
Aviva is entitled not to offer live pricing to avoid people playing the market which increases 
volatility. In either call Mrs R wasnt misled about the price shed get, nor was she quoted a 
price which Aviva then failed to honour. When she was given valuations she was told they 
could change. If Mrs Rs loss arose because she attempted to time her switches with the 
aim of buying into BGA when the price was low, and then switching out of BGA and into a 
cash fund when the price was high, thats not something I can hold Aviva responsible for. 
Avivas terms and conditions dont mention the effective day pricing strategy for telephone 
instructions, but Mrs Rs switch instructions were handled in line with the process for other 
methods which I think is reasonable.Mrs R said that had she been made aware of Avivas switching policy she wouldnt have 
stayed with Aviva when she was given the option to convert her workplace pension to a 
personal pension, nor would she have transferred her other plans to Aviva. I cant say for 
sure what shed have done, but I dont think Avivas position is unusual within the industry. 
She may have shopped around for a self-invested personal pension which offers live pricing, 
but this flexibility often comes with higher charges, and may not be appropriate if Mrs R only 
intended switching funds once a year. Mrs R can of course move her pension away from 
Aviva if she wishes to. But Ive seen no evidence she asked Aviva about its pricing strategy 
before making her decision, and she didnt query it in 2020 when she originally transferred 
into BGA. As Aviva has never offered live pricing I think Mrs R would have been told this 
from the outset if shed asked, so I dont consider Aviva needs to do anything to put this 
right. I also see no justification for a refund of the plan charges as these arent related to the 
switching policy.  
So while I appreciate Mrs R will remain unhappy, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional conclusions, which is that overall Mrs R was told the right information prior to 
instructing both switches, and £150 is sufficient to compensate for the incorrect information 
she was given. 
My final decision
So my decision is I dont uphold the complaint in the sense the offer made by Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited is sufficient to put things right. So it should pay Mrs R £150 if it hasnt 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman