DRN-4310179
The complaint
Mr B complains that AutoProtect (MBI) Ltd (AutoProtect) declined to change his payment 
date, which he says led to him making late payments towards the premium for his 
Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) insurance policy. He also complains they issued him 
with threatening emails which contained inaccurate information, and about the refund he 
received after he cancelled the policy.   
What happened
Mr B took out a GAP policy, through a broker, AutoProtect, in September 2022 for a total 
premium of £320.08  this involved an initial deposit payment of £60.16, followed by nine 
monthly instalments of £28.88. Mr B says AutoProtect refused to change the date they would 
collect his monthly instalments, which in turn led to him making late payments. Mr B says he 
received emails threatening legal action and says, not only was he unhappy about the tone 
of the correspondence, but it contained factually incorrect information. Mr B then cancelled 
his policy but AutoProtect gave him a pro-rata refund rather than a full refund. So, Mr B 
complained.  
AutoProtect responded and explained theyd reviewed the content of their emails notifying 
Mr B about the outstanding payments but didnt feel the tone was unfriendly. They explained 
their system is automated and all monthly instalments are taken on the same date for all 
policyholders, so its not possible to change the date the payment is applied to the card they 
hold on file for Mr B. AutoProtect explained the refund issued to Mr B was in line with the 
policy terms. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B. She thought AutoProtect hadnt acted 
unreasonably in declining to change the payment date or in their correspondence with Mr B. 
She also thought the refund issued was fair. Mr B disagreed so the matter has come to me 
for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Refusal to change payment date
Mr B says AutoProtect refused to take payments on a set day which works for him, which in 
turn led to him making late payments. AutoProtect say their system is automated and all 
monthly instalments are taken on the same date for all policyholders, so its not possible to 
change the date of payment.
My starting point is Mr Bs GAPs insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and, under a section headed Instalment plan, it sets out the agreement in 
relation to the payment date. It says Each monthly payment will be deducted from your 
assigned card on the 1st day of the month Theres a sub-heading which says, Change 
payment date and this says, Payments will always be called for on the 1st day of the 
month Theres another sub-heading which refers to the consequences of non-payment 
and explains AutoProtect will take action to recover any amount due. The Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) sets out Mr Bs obligations and says, You must pay any 
premium when due and under a separate section headed When and how do I pay? it 
says, You do not need to schedule payment, payments are automatically applied on the 1st 
of each month. AutoProtect also sent an email to Mr B on 17 September 2022  a day 
before his policy started  setting out a summary of the payments due. This says, Monthly 
payments are applied to the original payment card on the 1st day of each month starting one 
month after your purchase. Please ensure you have adequate funds available. So, taking 
into account the policy documents and email sent to Mr B, I think AutoProtect did make it 
clear that payment would be due on the first day of each month. 
I can see Mr B did ask AutoProtect in October 2022 if his payment can be changed to the 
eleventh day of each month, but they explain, as the payment system is automated, its not 
possible to amend the date the payments are taken. In January 2023, Mr B again points out 
he wants his payment date to be the eleventh day of each month, but again AutoProtect 
explain, as all monthly payments are taken by their automated system on the first day of 
each month, its not possible to change the payment date. I do acknowledge Mr B had a 
preferred date on which he wanted to make payment, but AutoProtect have explained their 
system is automated and the payment date cant be changed. I think its important to make 
clear, our service doesnt have the power to direct a business to change their processes. But 
we can look to see if a customer has been treated fairly. AutoProtect explain the payment 
date of the first day of each month applies to all policyholders  so I cant say Mr B has been 
treated any differently to other AutoProtect customers. I also think information about the 
payment dates was made clear in the policy documents, so I cant say AutoProtect have 
acted unfairly in refusing to change Mr Bs payment date. 
Threatening correspondence and incorrect information 
  
I understand Mr B is concerned about the tone of correspondence sent by AutoProtect when 
notifying him about missed payments. I can see AutoProtect sent an email to Mr B saying a 
payment of £28.88 due on 1 January 2023 hadnt been met by Mr Bs bank. The email 
provides a link allowing Mr B to make payment or to contact AutoProtect to update his card 
details. The email says AutoProtect will continue to apply to Mr Bs bank for payment but, 
while the instalment remains unpaid, his vehicle will not be covered, and any total loss claim 
he makes for an event that occurs during this time will not be valid. This is followed by 
another email on 8 January, setting out the same information as the previous email. 
AutoProtect then sent an email on 23 January explaining Mr Bs outstanding monthly 
instalment on his policy remains unpaid and he hasnt responded to their previous 
communications to make an arrangement to pay. They explain if Mr B is having difficulties 
making payment, then their customer service team are able to speak with him in confidence 
and to help him resolve the matter. 
AutoProtect say if they dont hear back from Mr B within the next day then, in accordance 
with the policy, theyre providing 14 days notice that, should the outstanding amount not be 
paid, then the total outstanding balance of £173.28 will become due and proceedings will 
commence to recover this, and the policy will be cancelled due to non-payment.   
This is then followed by an email on 25 January, from AutoProtect, to say the 14-day 
cancellation notice served in accordance with the policy has now expired and all outstanding premium, totalling £173.28 has become payable in full. The email says proceedings will 
shortly commence to recover the outstanding amount and they ask Mr B to contact their 
collections team to avoid this. The email sets out a summary of the facts and says 
AutoProtect had been unable to collect the instalment of £28.88 due on 1 December 2022 
and an email was sent asking for payment. The email says, on the fifth working day 
thereafter, the instalment due on 1 December was called for again and remained unpaid. It 
says AutoProtect then gave Mr B 14 days notice of cancellation due to non-payment and 
explaining the full premium would become payable and proceedings would commence to 
recover this. 
I understand Mr B is concerned about the tone of the communication  which he feels is 
threatening. I acknowledge Mr Bs concern, but the policy document does set out the 
consequences of non-payment and says AutoProtect will take action to recover any amount 
due. And, at the point the emails of 23 and 25 January were sent, the January monthly 
instalment was outstanding. So, I cant say AutoProtect have acted unreasonably here. 
That said, I agree with Mr Bs concern about there being an error in AutoProtects 
communication. The email of 25 January refers to Decembers instalment being outstanding 
 but the information shows the December instalment was paid by Mr B on 23 December. 
AutoProtect accept there was an error here, and their email incorrectly made reference to 
dates in December. They say these dates were incorrectly pulled through by their system, 
which should instead have pulled through the relevant dates in January. They say this has 
since been corrected with an update to their system to ensure this doesnt happen again. 
AutoProtect say this didnt however affect the process of handling Mr Bs missed instalment 
for January. 
I acknowledge the incorrect dates wouldve caused some confusion, but I dont believe the 
impact of this justifies any compensation. I say this for a number of reasons. Firstly, the 
email of 23 January  and which led to the 25 January email  does refer to the correct 
missed instalment for January. In addition to this, while I accept reference was made to the 
incorrect dates, I cant say it was unreasonable for AutoProtect to follow this process as the 
information shows there was, at that point, an outstanding instalment, albeit for January. Ive 
also noted that Mr B responded shortly after receiving the email and pointed out the 
information is factually incorrect as Decembers instalment had been paid. Mr B says the 
amount outstanding relates to Januarys instalment. So, it appears Mr B identified the error 
after reading AutoProtects email, so, apart from some initial confusion which was likely 
caused, I cant say there was a wider impact here as Mr B immediately recognised there was 
an error. I think its also important to add here, while the dates were incorrect, I cant see 
proceedings were actually issued against Mr B. So, I acknowledge there was an error here, 
but for these reasons I wont be asking AutoProtect to pay any compensation for this.    
Mr B also says it was unreasonable for AutoProtect to have sent him an email on 23 
January, giving him 14 days notice of their intention to start proceedings, only to write to him 
again two days later to start this process. I acknowledge Mr Bs concern, but as mentioned 
above, I cant see AutoProtect started any proceedings to recover the amount due. I agree 
the email of 23 January gives Mr B 14 days notice of AutoProtects intention to commence 
proceedings. But, while the email of 25 January says, Proceedings will shortly 
commence no proceedings had been issued at that point. 
AutoProtect also make it clear in this email that Mr B can still contact them to pay the 
amount due to avoid court proceedings. I acknowledge the email of 25 January says the 14 
days notice has now expired  and this does appear to be an error. But I cant say there 
were any consequences of this error as AutoProtect didnt issue proceedings. 
Refund of premiumI can see Mr B decided to cancel his policy, and he feels AutoProtect should give him a full 
refund of what he has paid. AutoProtect say, as the cancellation request was received 
outside the cooling off period, Mr B was entitled to receive a pro-rata refund of £112.33 in 
accordance with the policy terms as hed been on cover for 136 days and they also deducted 
a £35 administration fee.  
Ive looked at the policy document and this explains, if Mr B cancels his policy within the first 
30 days, then hes entitled to a full refund as long as no claim has been made. It goes further 
to say, if the policy is cancelled after 30 days, then Mr B is entitled to a pro-rata refund on 
the amount he has paid under the instalment plan, less the administration fee of £35. 
Theres no dispute Mr B cancelled his policy after 30 days, so I cant say AutoProtect have 
acted unfairly in applying the terms of the policy and issuing a pro-rata refund. Mr B has had 
the benefit of having cover during the period the policy was in place, so I cant fairly ask 
AutoProtect to refund the full amount Mr B has paid them.  
I understand Mr B will be disappointed, but I wish to reassure Mr B Ive read and considered 
everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it 
isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference 
it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman