DRN-2208233
The complaint
Miss T complains about the way her cheque was processed by Lloyds Bank PLC. 
What happened
On 17 January 2020 Miss T paid a cheque she issued from her Lloyds account to her 
mortgage lender. The cheque was being used to repay Miss Ts mortgage. Miss T has told 
us her mortgage lender accepted the cheque over the counter in branch. 
Lloyds tried to contact Miss T on 29 January 2020 to complete a security check. Lloyds has 
explained that the signature on the cheque didnt match its records. Lloyds called the 
landline and mobile numbers it held for Miss T but neither call was answered. Lloyds didnt 
leave a message or try to call Miss T back. 
Lloyds says that it sent the cheque back to Miss Ts mortgage lender for representment. But 
Miss T sent a transfer via CHAPS to the mortgage lender to repay the outstanding balance. 
Miss T went on to complain as she had incurred additional mortgage and overdraft interest 
as a result of the delay. Miss T also had to pay a £30 CHAPS fee.
Lloyds responded on 5 February 2020 but didnt agree it had made a mistake in the way it 
had processed the cheque payment. But Lloyds apologised that the cheque clearing team 
wasnt available for Miss T to speak with and paid her £50. Lloyds said it had made attempts 
to contact Miss T in line with its process when carrying out security checks but no response 
was received. 
Miss T referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. He thought 
Lloyds had dealt with Miss Ts complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Miss T 
asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss T is upset. She wanted to use a high value cheque to repay her 
mortgage balance. I can see that the amount Miss T had to transfer was significantly higher 
and I accept that the delay in redeeming her mortgage will have led to additional interest 
being incurred. My role is to look at Lloyds actions, consider whether it has made any errors 
and whether it has dealt with Miss Ts complaint fairly. 
I think all parties broadly agree on the circumstances of this complaint. Lloyds says it had 
reasonable concerns over the signature used on Miss Ts cheque which meant additional 
checks were necessary. Given the amounts involved, I think Lloyds decision to complete 
security checks, including verifying the signature, was reasonable. And, there does appear 
to be some difference in the signature used on the cheque and the version held with Lloyds. 
Lloyds says it tried to call Miss T on 29 January 2020 using the numbers it has on file. 
Miss T says she didnt receive the calls. I note the landline number Lloyds had on file for 
Miss T doesnt match the area she lives in or the number she has given us on the complaint 
form. Lloyds records say the call to the landline didnt connect and I suspect it was out of 
date. The mobile number Lloyds says it called is the same as the one Miss T has given us. 
Miss T says she had no missed calls on that day and that Lloyds didnt leave a message. 
Lloyds has confirmed it doesnt leave messages in this situation and doesnt repeatedly try to 
contact the customer to complete the security checks required. If the call isnt answered, 
Lloyds says it waits for the customer to get in touch. I appreciate Miss T says she didnt have 
a missed call on the day in question. But Lloyds has provided a date, time and number for 
the call it made. On balance, Im satisfied that Lloyds did try to contact Miss T as it claims. 
Miss T has asked why Lloyds only attempts to call once. I take Miss Ts point, but its up to a 
business to decide how to operate. Im satisfied that Lloyds did make reasonable attempts to 
contact Miss T and complete additional checks. 
When Miss T contacted Lloyds about the cheque issues on 31 January 2020 she wasnt able 
to speak directly with the cheque clearing team because it was closed. Lloyds accepts that 
the teams closure was inconvenient in Miss Ts case and paid her £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill. Whilst I agree that this was inconvenient for Miss T, I cant tell a business what 
opening hours to set for its teams. Its a commercial decision for Lloyds to take. 
Lloyds has made the point that after it tried to contact Miss T it sent the cheque back to her 
mortgage lender for representment. But it doesnt appear that the mortgage lender tried to 
process the cheque again. Miss T was ultimately able to repay her mortgage via a CHAPS 
payment on 3 February 2020. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss T but I havent been persuaded to uphold this complaint. Im 
satisfied Lloyds had reasonable grounds to carry out further checks and that it tried to 
contact Miss T as it claims. Lloyds paid Miss T £50 in recognition of the inconvenience 
caused by its cheque clearance team being closed and Im satisfied thats fair in all the 
circumstances. As I think Lloyds has dealt with Miss Ts complaint fairly, Im not telling it to 
take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman