DRN-2748623
The complaint
Mr K says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
The policy was sold by a different business, but Barclays now has responsibility for the sale, 
and for this complaint. So, Ill refer to Barclays in this decision.
What happened
Mr K bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a credit card over the internet. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing for him, so Ill explain why.
Mr K says that he was not aware of the PPI policy, that he didnt ask for it, and that he didnt 
have a need for the PPI. But I think Barclays made Mr K aware that he had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it.
I say this because Mr K took out the PPI policy at the same time as he applied for his credit 
card over the internet. Barclays has shown that as part of the application process, Mr K was 
presented with two clear options  to take PPI or to decline the policy. And he wouldnt have 
been able to complete his application without making this choice. So, with this in mind, I 
think that Barclays did give Mr K a choice in taking out the PPI, and that he chose to do so, 
although I can understand why he doesnt remember this given how long ago the sale took 
place.  
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr K, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him, 
but it did need to give Mr K enough information for him to make up his own mind if he 
thought the policy was right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Mr K says that at the time he took out the PPI policy, he had several different sources 
of income on both an employed and self-employed basis  which couldve made it harder to 
make a claim if hed needed to. But the information shown in his application data says that 
he was employed  with no other sources of income. He also told this service he was 
employed when he first brought his complaint to this service. And Mr K doesnt have any 
information available to confirm what hes said. So, Im unable to say for certain that he 
wouldve found it more difficult to make a claim due to his employment circumstances. 
But Mr K also doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the other main things the 
policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about his circumstances it looks like the 
policy couldve been useful to him. So, I dont think better information wouldve stopped him 
buying it. 
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive taken into account Mr Ks comments, but these points dont change my conclusion
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard does have to pay back to Mr K any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman