DRN-4187545
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC have allowed money to be debited from his 
account without his authority.
What happened
Mr W switched his current account from Barclays to a third party account. But he noticed that 
after this was done, money had left his account which he didnt authorise. It had references 
which led him to believe a third party company had tried to take money from his account 
fraudulently. Mr W made a complaint to Barclays.
Barclays upheld Mr Ws complaint. They paid £21.50 to his account to clear the overdrawn 
balance and £50 compensation to him. Barclays said that this wasnt a reference from a 
merchant (as it was their reference) and his account had not been fraudulently used. 
Barclays said that whilst going through the switch process, theyd applied a number of debits 
and credits for the amount of £10.75. The £10.75 was the balance Mr W had on his account 
at the time of requesting the transfer. Due to the various debits and credits, theyd left his 
account in debit with an amount totalling £21,50. However, theyd also put £10.75 into his 
savings account. Mr W brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. She said on 23 June 2022 there was a 
debit on the account for £10.75 with the reference Mr W thought was a third party company. 
She said this was a different entry on the statement compared to previous entries. Our 
investigator said while the credits and debits to the account wouldve been confusing, 
Barclays had explained why the entry of the reference appeared on the statement, and they 
paid compensation for the poor service and they applied a credit to cover the debit balance, 
which she thought was fair. Mr W asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Ws bank account statements from when he switched accounts from 
Barclays to get a sense of what happened on his account. Mr Ws account balance on 1 
March 2022 was overdrawn by £10.75. Which means he owed Barclays £10.75 to bring this 
to a zero balance. On 3 March 2022, his statements show a credit to the account of £5, to 
bring the balance overdrawn to £5.75, but on 31 March 2022, this money leaves his account, 
and he is back to being overdrawn by £10.75. 
On 30 May 2022, there is a credit of £10.75 on the account, which would bring the account 
balance to zero, but unfortunately it appears an error was made and another £10.75 had 
been added to the account which meant the balance had a £10.75 credit. Due to the switch it 
appears that these two credits of £10.75 then left his account on 1 June 2022 (which would 
mean the balance was overdrawn by £10.75 again). But also on 1 June 2022, £10.75 
credited the account which left a £0 balance. 
Unfortunately on 23 June 2022, £10.75 left Mr Ws account with a reference which was 
different to the previous times money had been debited and credited to his account. This led 
him to believe this was a company by a similar name (who had since appeared to have gone 
out of business) who was debiting the money from his account. I can confirm to Mr W that it 
wasnt another company who debited the £10.75 from his account. It was Barclays and the 
reference used was a Barclays internal reference, it had nothing to do with an external 
company. But I can understand why this could be confusing when the transaction had been 
displayed a lot differently to what it had been before. 
Barclays then debited another £10.75 from Mr Ws account on 28 June 2022. So this meant 
the balance on Mr Ws account was overdrawn by £21.50. Barclays have rectified what 
happened here by paying £21.50 into Mr Ws account to bring his account balance to a zero 
balance. As they explained to Mr W in their final response to him, that due to the switch 
process, this money would be likely to be transferred directly to his new account. This is 
what appears to have happened. So if the account is still overdrawn, Mr W will need to pay 
this money to make the balance zero again. But he may wish to close his Barclays account 
at this point, otherwise the money could be automatically forwarded to his new account 
again. 
I can sympathise with the position Mr W has found himself in here as his statements show a 
confusing situation of funds being credited to his account, debiting his account and being 
automatically forwarded to his new account. It could seem that Mr W was out of pocket. But 
looking at his statements, I can confirm Mr W has lost no money as a result of what 
happened. I say this because on 1 March 2022, he was overdrawn by £10.75. But Barclays 
have put him in a better position by paying this off on 22 August 2022 which meant Mr W 
had a £0 balance (before this appears to have automatically credited his third party account). 
But I do think compensation was due for what happened here. Barclays process led Mr W to 
believe his account was fraudulently being used which would have been distressing for him. 
And Mr W wouldnt be aware from the references that these transactions were internal 
Barclays transactions. So Barclays paid Mr W £50 for distress an inconvenience. And they 
paid £21.50 to bring his account to a zero balance at the time. Im satisfied that this is fair 
and it is in line with what we would award in these incidents. So it follows that I dont require 
Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman