DRN-4208982
The complaint
Mr F complains that Revolut Ltd reversed a chargeback claim and closed his account. 
What happened
Mr F raised a chargeback claim on 3 Feb 2023. This was for a payment to a company Ill call 
B made on his account the same day that he said he did not recognise. The payment of 
£57.19 was credited back to his account but Mr F was warned this could be reversed at a 
later date. On 7 February 2023, the payment was reversed and the £57.19 was deducted 
from his account again, as Revolut could find no indication of fraud. 
Mr F also raised a separate disputed transaction in December 2022 for a payment to a 
railway company for £729. He initially said he did not recognise the payment, but later said 
his mother had tried to purchase the ticket but he had not received it. He has since 
withdrawn his disputed transaction claim for this amount, and I understand the company has 
agreed to refund him. Mr F should contact Revolut directly if he has issues with this.
Revolut contacted Mr F on 14 February 2023 and explained it was withdrawing his banking 
services and that he had 60 days to transfer the funds out of his account. Mr F is unhappy 
that they have not provided him with a reason for the closure and feels they are 
discriminating against him due to his medical issues.
Mr F referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator looked into it. They explained 
they would not be looking into the payment to the railway company further as Mr F had 
withdrawn the disputed transaction claim. In relation to the payment to B, they did not think 
there was any indication of fraud and that it was more likely Mr F himself had made or 
otherwise authorised the payment. And they felt Revolut had followed the correct procedure 
when it chose to close Mr Fs account.
Mr F disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons, so I do not 
uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why in more detail. 
As has previously been set out, Mr F has withdrawn his disputed transaction claim about the 
payment of £729 to the railway company, so I wont discuss this further in this decision. 
Disputed payment to B
Generally, Revolut is able to hold Mr F liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. This position is 
confirmed in the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms and conditions of 
his account.
From what Ive seen, the payment was made using Mr Fs virtual Revolut card via his app. 
While this is important, it isnt enough on its own the say Mr F is liable for the transaction. 
Revolut also has to show its more likely than not that Mr F himself made or otherwise 
authorised the transaction
Mr F has said that in December 2022 he received a text from what he thought was a 
legitimate court and it had a link in it which he clicked. When he did so, his phone froze, and 
he had to take it to get fixed. He thinks it is possible that his banking details were hacked at 
that point, and this is how the payment to B occurred. 
I have not been given any evidence of the text, or phone issues Mr F had or anything to 
show he got it fixed when he said he did. On balance, while I am not a technical expert, 
based on my experience I think it is unlikely that clicking a link in a text would allow a third 
party to gain access to a protected banking app on Mr Fs device and allow them to make a 
payment two months later. I say this because there are multiple layers of security it would 
have to get through and the time in-between makes it significantly less likely. Finally, I 
wouldnt expect a scammer to go to such lengths to make a payment of only £57.19 when 
there was over £2,500 in the account, as they would typically try to drain an account as 
much as possible.
Revolut has provided evidence to show the payment to B was manually entered using the 
virtual card on Mr Fs app. This means a third party would have had to access his Revolut 
app in order to make the payment. Mr F initially said that in order to log into his Revolut app 
he uses either facial recognition or a PIN, but later said that if his phone is unlocked, he does 
not need to go through any security to unlock the app. It is difficult to place much weight on 
Mr Fs version of events as he has changed it over time. As Mr F did not lose his phone or 
give anyone access to it, I think its more likely he carried out the transaction himself.
Revolut has also provided the response from B to Mr Fs chargeback claim. In this, they 
provided evidence to show that the payment was made with Mr Fs own card and the 
booking was completed with Mr Fs own e-mail address, full name and residential address. 
And I think this also suggests Mr F himself made or otherwise authorised the transaction to 
B. I appreciate his comments that his account with B could have been compromised when 
he clicked on the link in the text mentioned earlier. But Ive explained above why I think it is 
unlikely these two events are linked. 
All of the above evidence suggests to me that there was no clear point at which a third-party 
could have bypassed the security on Mr Fs phone and Revolut app in order to make the 
payment. And on balance, I think its more likely Mr F made or otherwise authorised it 
himself. So, I think it was reasonable that Revolut held him liable and reversed the 
chargeback attempt.
Account closure
Looking at the terms and conditions of the account, it states Revolut may close or suspend 
an account for any reason, and they would give two months notice of this. I can see that 
Revolut did provide Mr F with 60 days notice, so it followed its agreed process.  Mr F is unhappy that Revolut have not set out their reasons for closing his account. 
However, they are not required to do so. I have reviewed Revoluts evidence and rationale 
for making this decision and I dont think they reached it incorrectly or unreasonably. From 
what I have seen, I think that they followed the correct process, so I cant see they have 
made an error in the circumstances.  
Mr F has said that he thinks that Revolut decided to close his account due to his medical 
issues and that this amounts to discrimination under the Equality Act 2010.
The first thing I need to clarify is the fact that this service is unable to make findings on 
whether or not something constitutes discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010, this is for a 
court to decide. However, I can consider whether or not the business has acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner, and in order to do that I will take a number of things, including the 
Equality Act 2010, into consideration. 
Having done so in this case, I can find no indication that Revoluts decision to close Mr Fs 
account is in any way related to his medical issues. So, I dont think he has been treated 
differently as a result of his medical issues and I dont think Revolut has made an error in the 
circumstances. Ive explained above that I think Revoluts decision to close Mr Fs account 
was done so correctly and reasonably, in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Having carefully considered everything available to me, I think it was reasonable for Revolut 
to reverse the chargeback and hold Mr F liable for the transaction of £57.19. And I think 
Revolut followed the correct process when it closed his account. So, Im not going to ask 
them to do anything to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman