DRN-3139084
The complaint
Mr T complains that Vanquis Bank Limited wont refund payments he made on his credit 
card to what he says was a scam investment. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. In 2014 Mr T made three payments from his 
Vanquis Visa credit card to a merchant Ill refer to as L. The payments were made between 
May and August 2014 and totalled around £2,600. Mr T also received a credit from L back 
onto his account for around £420 in September 2014.
In 2020 Mr T contacted Vanquis and asked that they reimburse him under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). He said L were a fraudulent company. Vanquis 
responded and said that they werent prepared to offer a refund. Mr T complained and when 
Vanquis maintained their position the matter was referred to our service. 
One of our investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary 
she thought that Mr T hadnt evidenced he had a valid claim under section 75 and she didnt 
think chargeback was an option given the time that had passed. She also didnt think there 
were any other reasons why Vanquis should provide a refund. 
Mr T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
Ill explain why. 
Where chargeback is concerned Vanquis are bound by the card scheme operators (Visa) 
rules. The chargeback rules are clear that the absolute maximum time allowed from the date 
of transaction for a claim to be raised is 540 days. As this had already passed (for all the 
transactions) by the time Vanquis were informed, I think their decision not to pursue a 
chargeback was reasonable. They can only act within the schemes rules and the time limits 
are clear. 
Section 75 of the CCA gives a debtor the right to pursue a like claim for breach of contract 
and/or misrepresentation against a creditor as he would have against the supplier of goods 
or services. For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show not just 
a false statement of fact but also that the statement induced Mr T into entering into an 
agreement. 
Mr T hasnt presented evidence to persuade me that L made a misrepresentation that 
induced him into entering into the agreement with them. Nor that they breached any contract 
he had with them. Ive not been able to find any information which suggests that (at the time) 
L were operating in a fraudulent manner. The fact that Mr T was able to receive a credit back 
to his account (albeit after some difficulties as I understand), makes that less likely to be the 
case. Mr Ts own testimony supports that he had access to a trading platform. Overall, I find 
that Mr T hasnt established a claim under section 75 for either breach of contract nor 
misrepresentation. 
As such, I think Vanquis decision to not make a refund on that basis was fair and 
reasonable. For completeness, I also dont think there were any other reasons why Vanquis 
ought to have intervened in the payments at the time they were being made or that they 
need to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman