DRN-2731989
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that ETU Forsikring A/S (ETU) declined a claim he made under his pet 
insurance cover for vet fees and death from injury or illness. 
What happened
Mr S insured his new pet bird, R, with ETU on 7 December 2020. 
That same day Mr S had taken R to the vets where R had a nail clip and it was noted that R 
had a lump which the vet recorded as an inflammatory mass. 
On 16 December 2020 the vets notes said Mr S couldnt bring R in for a follow up check, but 
requested antibiotics for the lump. 
On 22 December 2020 Mr S returned with R to the vet as he was concerned that R was 
acting differently and not his normal self. The vet said that if Mr S still had concerns R was 
lethargic then he should refer R to a specialist. 
On 23 December 2020 Mr S called his vet in the morning who suggested Mr S speak with a 
specialist vet. In turn Mr Ss vets spoke with the specialist vet on how best to treat R. The 
specialist vet advised that faecal samples be taken and probiotic be given to R. The cost of 
this was shared with Mr S who chose to source the probiotic himself and said he would wait 
to take faecal samples. 
On the same day Mr S expressed concern to his vet that R was lethargic and falling asleep 
in his food. Mr Ss vet spoke with the specialist vet again who recommended hospitalisation 
and fluids overnight, with a view to work up to bloods and radiographs. As Mr Ss vet was 
unable to keep R overnight, they recommended he should go to the specialist vet the next 
day if he still had concerns. 
Mr S spoke with a different vet (vet B) on 24 December 2020 as R was still unwell and, 
according to vet B, had been noted as having a poor appetite. 
On 26 December 2020 Mr S took R to vet B for a follow up as R had started to deteriorate 
again after the consultation on 24 December 2020. Vet B noted that Rs faeces were light 
green and R was dehydrated. Fluids were administered and an antibiotic was injected. R 
remained with vet B and sadly, on 27 December 2020, R passed away. 
Vet Bs notes record, Dx possible underlying condition of unknown origin (limited 
investigation was carried out considering the circumstances) either genetic or from birth 
(metabolic or systemic) since he was a young individual. (R was less than a year old). 
During their investigation ETU asked vet B some questions, and vet B further confirmed, I 
cannot comment if the condition was present on the 7th since I didnt carry out more 
diagnostic tests due to economic constraintsmy differential diagnosis was presumptive 
since as vets we need to list different possible scenarios for ill health when we dont have a 
diagnosis but in my professional opinion there could be a possibility that this (bird) has an 
underlying condition. 
ETU also queried whether the lump mentioned by Mr Ss vets had any impact on R in the 
circumstances, but vet B confirmed it didnt.
 
ETU declined Mr Ss claim. They said Mr Ss policy excluded payment for any pre-existing 
condition arising during the first twelve months of the policy and any amount claimed for if a 
pets death resulted from a pre-existing condition within the first twelve months of the policy. 
ETU also noted that under the policy Mr S was required to provide a post mortem (at his own 
expense) as R had passed away within the first twelve months of cover. ETU said Mr Ss 
claim wasnt able to meet the terms of the policy.
 
ETU also confirmed in light of the information received they took the decision to cancel and 
void the insurance. So Mr Ss policy for R was cancelled from the date of inception (7 
December 2020) and the December 2020 direct debit instalment of £14.89 was returned to 
him with no further payments to be collected. 
Mr S didnt accept ETUs conclusions. He told us he couldnt see what the point of the 
insurance was if ETU wasnt paying out. Mr S also said that ETU could have shown more 
sympathy in the handling of his claim and towards his personal circumstances, notably his 
limited financial means and his poor health. Mr S said he would have expected at least 
something from ETU as a gesture of goodwill to try and resolve things.
 
Our investigator attempted to mediate with ETU based on what Mr S had shared, but this 
wasnt successful so our investigator reviewed Mr Ss complaint in full. Our investigator 
concluded that Mr Ss complaint should not be upheld. 
The investigator explained our service wouldnt determine what caused R to pass away, but 
would need to rely on experts as part of our considerations to decide whether ETU had 
acted fairly when handling the claim. The investigator concluded ETU, in the absence of a 
post mortem, had acted fairly in the circumstances by relying on vet Bs submissions and 
therefore applying the exclusion for pre-existing conditions. Mr S requested an ombudsman 
review the case again as he still felt strongly that ETU could offer to pay him something. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. After listening to Mr Ss calls 
with our investigator I do understand how much upset this has caused him, and so I 
appreciate this will be disappointing news to him. Ive explained my reasons for reaching my 
decision below. 
As our investigator has already set out, it isnt for our service to determine the cause of Rs 
passing. But it is for us to look and see if ETU have fairly handled Mr Ss claim. And Mr S 
should note that I can only ask ETU to do something, such as pay Mr S compensation, if I 
think ETU has done something wrong. Looking through all the available submissions I dont think ETU has done anything wrong 
here and I think theyve acted reasonably in how theyve applied the terms of Mr Ss policy in 
this case. 
ETU are relying on the terms of Mr Ss policy which say that cover is not provided for a pet 
with a pre-existing condition. A pre-existing condition is described as a condition the pet may 
have been suffering from before the cover started and may have existed without the owners 
knowledge. The terms provide some examples such as a latent, genetic or hereditary 
disease, injury or deformity.
  
ETU have also referred to the requirement under the policy to obtain a post mortem report 
(at the owners expense) if a pet dies within the first twelve months of the insurance cover. 
Unfortunately, in Rs case a post mortem wasnt carried out. Mr S has said he wouldve 
arranged one had he known. But Im mindful this requirement was highlighted in the 
paperwork when Mr S first arranged the policy, and Im aware that costs were 
understandably an important consideration for him  a post mortem wouldve cost Mr S 
around £125. So its difficult for me to know whether Mr S would have definitely gone ahead 
with the post mortem.  
The difficulty in this claim is that its not possible to know, with any certainty, what really 
caused R to pass away at such a young age. I recognise that losing R so young wouldve 
been unexpected for Mr S and I have no doubt, that even though Mr S had R for such a 
short time, R nevertheless had made an impact on Mr Ss life. I understand that losing any 
pet is difficult. 
When its not possible to know for sure what happened, we have to therefore think about 
what are the most likely set of circumstances which apply. In Rs case, we have the 
submissions of vet B who treated R, and who, as described above, has explained in their 
professional opinion there was a possibility this bird had an underlying condition. I think it 
was reasonable of ETU to rely on what the expert had said and therefore conclude it was 
more likely than not that R had an underlying, pre-existing condition. And it follows that I 
think it was fair for ETU to decline the claim. 
I understand this is all upsetting for Mr S and I know he was simply looking for something 
from ETU even as a gesture of goodwill to recognise how the passing of R has affected him. 
Im also aware from what Mr S has said that the costs hes incurred have impacted his 
financial circumstances as well as caused him stress affecting his health, and I am sorry to 
hear this. 
 
Without wishing to upset Mr S further, Im mindful that these situations are never easy, but 
that in itself isnt a reason to say that compensation should be awarded. I must think about 
whether the business has done anything wrong here and acted unfairly, and I dont think 
they have.
 
Im aware that in light of what happened ETU arranged to return the premium Mr S paid and 
voided the policy. I think this was fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman