DRN-2927627
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy HSBC UK Bank PLC trading as first direct hasnt refunded her in full after 
she fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when he wrote to the 
bank upholding Mrs Ss complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so I 
dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
Mrs S sent £4,300 via mobile banking to an account controlled by a fraudster on 
9 January 2020.
She did so on the premise she was purchasing a portacabin, after bidding for the 
item on an online auction site.
The seller account that was advertising the portacabin had, in fact, been hacked by 
a fraudster. When the portacabin wasnt delivered on the date specified, Mrs S 
realised shed been the victim of a scam and contacted first direct.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM). This is 
a voluntary scheme first direct has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that have 
fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the Code is for a customer to be 
refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer has not met their 
requisite level of care. In making such an assessment, a firm may consider whether the 
customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
First direct did refund Mrs S 50% of her loss when she reported the scam. It did so on the 
basis it hadnt provided her with effective warnings about scams at the point she made the 
payment.
First direct declined to refund the remaining 50% as it felt Mrs S hadnt done enough to 
check the legitimacy of the sale. First direct also said Mrs S shouldve paid for the item via 
the money transfer service linked to the auction website, which wouldve provided her with 
additional protection.
First direct contacted the receiving bank to try to recover the money. But no funds remained 
in the recipient account. 
Mrs S brought her complaint to our service as she wasnt happy with first directs decision. 
One of our investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint be upheld. 
Our investigator found Mrs S had a reasonable basis for believing she was making a 
legitimate purchase through a genuine seller. He said that the portacabin was reasonably 
priced and that Mrs Ss bid was similar to bids made by other users of the auction site. While 
Mrs S initially tried to complete the sale via the recommended money transfer service, the 
investigator thought that the fraudster had provided a plausible explanation as to why he 
wouldnt accept payments through this channel  explaining that this method of payment 
incurred additional fees. The scammer also told Mrs S that he was going through a divorce 
and that his lawyers required all proceeds of sales to go directly through their bank account. 
The investigator reviewed the messages between Mrs S and the fraudster and didnt think 
there was anything concerning about how the fraudster communicated with Mrs S.
The investigator said the fraudsters account had a number of positive reviews and had 
been active since 2003, which you would not reasonably expect to see on an account 
controlled by a fraudster.
The investigator said first direct ought to have fully reimbursed Mrs S at the time she made 
her claim and so should refund the remaining 50% of her loss in order to settle the 
complaint, together with interest on the refund at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date 
it declined her claim to the date of settlement. 
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 10 June 2021 with a deadline for 
responding of 24 June 2021. That deadline has passed and, about three weeks later, the 
bank has still failed to respond. As such, the case has been escalated to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from first direct to the 
investigators initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the 
evidence we already have and to take account of first directs failure to reply to the 
investigators opinion. 
Ive considered whether, under the CRM, Mrs S ought to have been fully reimbursed when 
she notified first direct of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not she met her 
requisite level of care. I believe she did, for substantively the same reasons the investigator has already explained, so it would have been fair and reasonable for Mrs S to have received 
a full refund at the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mrs S ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM. I therefore direct first direct to pay 
Mrs S:
the remaining 50% of the money she lost  i.e. £2,150  within 28 days of receiving 
notification of her acceptance of my final decision; plus
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly                                               
deductible) from the date first direct declined Mrs Ss claim under the CRM to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman