DRN-2753932
The complaint
Mr H complains that JLT Wealth Management Limited didnt make him aware of the 
decreasing nature of a life insurance policy they sold to him in 1995.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into what happened when the policy was sold to Mr H and 
the late Mrs H in 1995. They thought the paperwork was clear about how the policy worked 
and that Mr H more than likely received a copy of the policy schedule. Mr H disagreed with 
our investigator so the complaint came to me for a decision. 
After reviewing the complaint, I came to the same conclusion as our investigator but for 
substantially different reasons. I issued a provisional decision on 11 March 2021 in which I 
said:
When considering complaints from a long time ago and with limited information I must come
to a decision on the balance of probabilities; that is, what I think is most likely to have
happened. Mr H says it isnt his fault that there is limited information from the original sale;
and hes right, it isnt his fault. However the sale took place over 25 years ago so I wouldnt
expect JLT to have a complete set of records, especially with the added complication of the
policy being sold by a predecessor business.
Having reviewed the policy schedule I think it makes clear how the policy works. In the
description of benefits the dual nature of the policy is explained. Page two has a table of the
decreasing sum assured showing the amounts payable up until 2018.
Mr H says that he never received a copy of the schedule so wasnt aware of the decreasing
nature of the policy. So whilst Im happy it explains how the policy works, this wouldnt really
matter if it was never seen by Mr H.
Its the responsibility of the product provider to send out a copy of the schedule once a policy
is set up. This complaint isnt about the product provider so its not my place to make a
finding on what they did or didnt do. However its standard industry practice for a policy
schedule to be sent out, and the product provider was able to produce a copy on request
from Mr H. I can see that the schedule is dated 10 August 1995 so it seems most likely it
was sent at that time.
Ive also looked at the application form signed by Mr and the late Mrs H at the time of the
sale. In the Policy Details section it says the annual premiums would be £1,730.72 for 31
years and then dropping to £979.04. Whilst this doesnt make perfectly clear how the policy
works, I think it shows that something was going to meaningfully change after 31 years
which meant the premiums would substantially reduce. It shows the policy wasnt going to
stay the same for the entire term. This change was when the decreasing term part of the
policy was set to come to an end. These premiums differ from those that were applied after
the policy was underwritten by the product provider, but the substantial change reflects how
the policy works.
Of course just making Mr and Mrs H aware about the type of the policy, and how it works,
isnt enough. JLT also had a duty to make sure the policy was suitable in the first place. Mr H
isnt saying that he didnt want a policy, just that it wasnt explained how this policy worked.
Also Mr H hasnt said that the original sum assured wasnt what he wanted. So Ive gone on
to think about the suitability of the policy happy that Mr and Mrs H had need for cover at the
time for the original agreed sum assured.
There are no notes from the time of the sale so I cant know what was discussed between
the advisor and Mr and the late Mrs H. At the time an advisor was required to make a
suitable recommendation taking into account the circumstances of the client.
Mr and Mrs H were sold a joint life second death policy. This means that the sum assured is
paid out after the death of both policy holders. These policies are usually taken out for
inheritance tax purposes or to support family once both parents pass away.
Mr H told us the policy was taken out to ensure that all taxes, if appropriate, along with any
other expenses and costs relating to probate issues would be covered. And also to provide
an amount of money to aid future financial security for Mr and Mrs Hs son.
Considering the type of policy sold, and the reasons for taking it out, Im satisfied the sale
was suitable. The policy fulfilled the needs for both covering any probate issues and leaving
an amount of money for Mr and Mrs Hs son.
This type of policy is cheaper than a normal whole of life policy because of the decreasing
term element. The policy is set up so the value of the whole of life part was expected to
increase over the term of the policy which would offset the decreasing term part. Here the
whole of life part of the policy started out at £30,780 and the product provider has confirmed
that as at June 2019 it had a current death value of over £70,000. So whilst the whole of life
part of the policy hasnt fully offset the decreasing term part, it has increased in value. At the
time the policy was sold projections for growth were much higher than they are now, and it
was expected that it would grow more than it has. This isnt surprising considering that the
return on investments has fallen greatly over the years since the policy was taken out in
1995.
Taking everything into account, I think on balance, that the policy was sold as a cheaper
option than a usual whole of life policy. The expectation wouldve been that the whole of life
part of the policy increased to offset the decreasing term part, so that the original sum
assured was maintained. Unfortunately that hasnt turned out to be the case, but I dont think
that makes the original advice unsuitable.
Mr H says that after the late Mrs H passed away the premiums reduced. And in terms of
timing this is correct, however the premiums reduced as the decreasing term part of the
policy had come to an end, rather than because Mrs H had passed away. The policy is set
up to pay out the sum assured on the death of the second policyholder. In this case that
means on the death of Mr H, as Mrs H has already passed away. Mrs H passing away didnt
have any effect on the premiums or the sum assured.
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied, on balance, the policy was suitable for
Mr and Mrs H and that how the policy works was explained.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further submissions they had before I issued my 
final decision.  
JLT responded to my provisional decision saying they had nothing further to add.Mr H didnt agree with provisional decision saying he was disappointed and asked if JLT 
might consider a good will gesture or a different way of paying out the surrender value. 
The complaint has now been passed back to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find myself coming to the same conclusions as I did in my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons. 
I know Mr H is disappointed with the surrender value and says he wasnt told about the 
decreasing nature of the policy at the time. However, having carefully considered everything 
Im satisfied, on balance, the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs H and that how the policy 
works was explained. So I wont be asking JLT to take any action such as what Mr H has 
requested. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman