DRN-2161032
The complaint
Ms W complains about the way Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) handled her subsidence claim 
under her home insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are not in dispute, so Ill only summarise them briefly.
In July 2018 Ms W contacted Zurich as she was concerned about cracks shed seen in her 
house and was worried they might be as a result of subsidence. 
Zurich appointed contractors and they initially thought that a nearby tree was the cause of 
the subsidence but on further investigation established it was caused by a consolidation of 
weak underlying soil. Zurich accepted the claim in August 2018 and works to rectify the 
subsidence commenced in November 2018.  
Ms W tells us she experienced issues and delays with the repairs including problems 
following resin injections to the bay window pillars and delays when a broken drain was 
uncovered. And she was required to make a contribution towards new windows. 
Ms W tells us that a trench was dug to facilitate resin injections under the bay window, and 
the injections were complete by the end of November 2018. She says the pillars supporting 
the bay window began to crumble and that in December 2018 a stone mason was brought in 
by Zurich to help with the works. However, the works werent carried out until March 2019. 
Further problems followed and it was established the bay window would need to be rebuilt. 
This work hadnt commenced by May 2019.
Ms W also says there was poor communication and the delays were causing stress and 
impacting on her health. She was unhappy with the way her claim was progressing and 
complained to Zurich. 
Zurich apologised and said the service Ms W had received had been completely 
unacceptable and offered to pay Ms W £1,000 compensation. It also said it would pay the 
full cost of the windows and wouldnt require a contribution from Ms W.
Ms W says she has experienced further delays after Zurich provided its final response on 24 
May 2019 and has made another complaint which is being considered separately by this 
service. And shes advised that further cracking has appeared which shes raised with 
Zurich. This service should be able to consider this latest complaint if she isnt satisfied with 
Zurichs answer and brings it to us. 
Our investigator agreed that Ms W had been inconvenienced more than she shouldve been 
for a claim of this nature, and had works going on in her house for longer than necessary. 
She initially considered the award of £1,000 made by Zurich to be fair, but after considering 
further testimony, and the impact the handling of the claim was having on Ms W she 
increased this to £1,400.
Ms W feels that the overall compensation payment should be in the region of £17,000, and 
Zurich believe the £1,000 they offered is fair. As both parties were unhappy with the 
investigators view the case has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I'm only considering issues up to 24 May 2019. The complaint issues raised 
with Zurich and brought to this service after this date will be dealt with in a separate decision. 
Since bringing these complaints to us Ms W has expressed concerns over the application 
and efficacy of the resin injections used to stabilise the bay window and has reported further 
cracking to Zurich. Zurich should consider this complaint separately. 
When I refer to Zurich I include its contractors and agents.
Ms W has made considerable submissions in bringing this complaint. Ive considered these 
and have looked at everything shes sent in, but I dont intend to respond in similar detail. So 
if I dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence it isnt because Ive not seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel its necessary to reference it to explain my decision. 
I hope Ms W doesnt take this as a discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal nature of 
our service.
Subsidence claims inevitably bring about a degree of disruption and inconvenience, and Ive 
seen that Ms W acknowledges this. But this claim hasnt progressed as it should, and 
mistakes made by Zurich have had a severe impact on Ms Ws day to day life for longer than 
was necessary. 
Ive seen that following the resin injections to the bay window the pillars supporting the 
window began to crumble. And in early December 2018 Zurich decided the services of a 
stone mason were required to help with the works. However, the works couldnt be carried 
out immediately due to the stone masons availability, and they wouldnt be able to start until 
after the Christmas break. But the works didnt start until March 2019. 
Further problems followed and it was established the bay window would need to be rebuilt. 
And this work hadnt started when Zurich issued its final response in May 2019 in which it 
agreed the service provided was unacceptable and said it is sorry it took so long for a start 
date to be arranged.
Im satisfied the issues causing delays couldve reasonably been foreseen and planned for 
to alleviate the delays that Ms W has experienced. 
Im mindful that Ms W is retired and spends a considerable amount of time at home. She 
effectively lost the use of her sitting room and had to move upstairs whilst remedial repairs 
were carried out. There was a loss of light to her home for the extended period her bay 
window was boarded up, and she wasnt able to enjoy her garden to the extent she usually 
does. 
Having considered all the evidence, I agree with our investigator and find that £1,400 is a fair 
and reasonable award in the circumstances of this case. 
  
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and require Zurich Insurance PLC to pay Ms W £1,400 in total for this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman