DRN-4193224
The complaint
Mrs K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc hasnt removed the adverse 
information from her credit file after she repaid her debt.  
What happened
Mrs K has been a customer of NatWest since 1996. In October 2018, NatWest wrote to 
Mrs K saying her accounts would be closed after 60 days and that her overdraft should be 
repaid. Mrs K agreed a repayment schedule with NatWest for her overdraft and loans. Mrs K 
raised a complaint about the account closures and the information recorded in her credit file. 
This complaint was referred to this Service and a final response issued in May 2020. 
Following this Mrs K raised complaints saying that defaults were applied to her credit file and 
even though it was agreed if she repaid her debts the credit file entries would be removed 
this hasnt happened.
NatWest said that the entries on Mrs Ks credit file are correct. It confirmed that her accounts 
werent reported as being in default and that three out of four of Mrs Ks accounts were 
reported as satisfied and the fourth account was not being reported any longer. 
Our investigator noted that as the events prior to May 2020 had already been considered by 
this service, these couldnt be revisited. They said they were satisfied that NatWest had 
corrected its errors, and appropriately reported activity in respect of Mrs Ks current account 
and personal loans. However, they did feel NatWest had caused distress with setting 
unreasonable expectations of removing markers. Mindful of the compensation already 
awarded, they recommended NatWest pay an additional £100.
Mrs K didnt accept that £100 was enough given the upset she had been caused over many 
years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs K is upset that her repaid accounts havent been removed from her 
credit file and that she has been dealing with these issues for a long time. However, in this 
case as a final decision was issued by this service in May 2020, I cannot revisit any of the 
issues covered by that decision. Instead, my decision relates to the issues Mrs K has raised 
since that date. In regard to these I have considered whether the actions taken by NatWest 
have been reasonable and whether it has treated Mrs K fairly.
NatWest apologised in its final response letter dated November 2022, for a default being 
reapplied to Mrs Ks loan account. It agreed that as it had previously said the default would 
be removed it shouldnt have been reapplied and the arrangement to pay shouldnt have 
been removed. Because of this it sent Mrs K a cheque for £100. The letter noted that Mrs K 
had been told the loan account would be deleted from her credit file once repaid and said 
this would be requested. In a letter sent dated 5 January 2023, NatWest said that following 
contact with its credit file department it had been confirmed that it wasnt possible to delete 
Mrs Ks accounts and as an apology for saying this could happen when it couldnt she was 
sent £50 of vouchers. It confirmed that the accounts were being correctly reported to the 
credit reference agencies. A further letter was issued in February 2023 detailing that no 
defaults were showing on Mrs Ks accounts and that three were recorded as satisfied and 
one was no longer being reported.
Having reviewed all of the evidence in this case, I do not find that I can say NatWest has 
done anything wrong regarding the information it has reported to the credit reference 
agencies. The credit report information I have seen shows the accounts flagged as having 
been in an arrangement and that they are all reported as settled in 2022. The markers on the 
payment history are showing but as this is an accurate reflection of the status of the 
accounts, I do not find I can say that NatWest is required to remove this. 
While I do not find I can say NatWest is doing anything wrong in how it is reporting Mrs Ks 
accounts to the credit reference agencies I agree that it didnt provide the service it should 
have. NatWest said that once the accounts were repaid, they could be removed from 
Mrs Ks credit file. It then confirmed that this couldnt happen. I appreciate that this would 
have been upsetting for Mrs K and I think it right that she is compensated for this.
I understand that Mrs K doesnt think the £100 compensation recommended by our 
investigator is enough. But as Mrs K was provided with compensation when it was identified 
that a mistake had been made in saying the credit file entries would be removed and 
considering the other actions taken and compensation paid in regard to Mrs Ks concerns, I 
find this a reasonable resolution to this complaint.
Putting things right
NatWest should pay Mrs K a further £100 compensation for the distress caused by being 
told the markers would be removed from her credit file. 
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should take the action set out above 
in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman