DRN-4003836
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with Unum Ltds decision to decline a claim she made under an income 
protection policy.
What happened
Mrs M had a group income protection policy through her employer. 
The policy had a deferred period of 26 weeks. After this point the policy said that it provided 
Mrs M with 50% of her salary, for a period of two years, followed by a lump sum figure, if she 
was unable to work because of incapacity. Incapacity being defined as Mrs M being unable 
to carry out the material and substantial duties of her own occupation due to illness or injury.
Since 2018 Mrs M had various periods of absence from work  as well as attempts to return 
to work full time, through a phased return. Mrs M was being paid by her employer in full for 
these periods, even when she wasnt working her full-time hours. But this phased return 
wasnt successful. And from 31 January 2020, Mrs M has explained she was unable to carry 
out the activities involved in her occupation, because of her medical situation. So, she was 
absent from work from 31 January 2020. 
And she made a claim under the income protection policy, for her absence since 31 January 
2020, recognising that any claim payment would come after the 26-week deferred period.
Mrs M explained to Unum that she was suffering from a number of conditions  which 
cumulatively meant she was unable to carry out her role. This included, but wasnt limited to, 
conditions such as Fibromyalgia, Depression, Anxiety and Arthritis. Mrs M provided details of 
these conditions, including medical information from her GP, and reports from an 
occupational health doctor from her employer. 
Unum considered Mrs Ms claim and in November 2020 it declined it. Unum said that Mrs M 
had been working in her role in a reduced capacity since 2018  this being reduced hours. 
And so, it was considering her claim in light of the reduced role she had been working, 
before becoming absent from work in January 2020. 
Unum recognised that Mrs M had a number of long-standing medical conditions. It said Mrs 
M had reported extreme levels of functional impairment, but this wasnt recorded or borne 
out in the medical evidence provided to it. So, Unum said it didnt consider there was 
sufficient evidence that Mrs M met the definition of incapacitated within the policy. And so, 
the claim wouldnt be paid.
Mrs M didnt consider this decline to be fair. She made further representations to Unum, 
including further information from her GP, and from an occupational health Doctor from her 
employer. 
Unum considered these further representations. And also looked into Mrs Ms absences 
from 2018-2020. But this didnt alter its decision on the claim. Unum reiterated that in order 
for it to accept Mrs Ms claim, it needed to be satisfied that she was unable to perform the 
material and substantial duties of her own occupation. And it didnt consider the medical 
evidence supported this being the case.
Mrs M remained dissatisfied with the outcome of her claim. And provided various 
representations about her medical conditions and the impact of these. Because Mrs M 
remained dissatisfied, she referred her complaint to this service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and thought it should be upheld. They considered 
that Mrs M had provided sufficient evidence that Mrs M was unable to perform the material 
and substantial duties of her occupation. And therefore, considered the claim should have 
been accepted.
The investigator recommended that Unum accept Mrs Ms claim  paying it from the end of 
the deferred period to the date Mrs Ms employment was terminated, on 31 August 2021. 
The investigator also recommended 8% simple interest was paid on this settlement amount.
Unum agreed to our investigators view, in order to resolve the matter. But Mrs M didnt 
agree. Mrs M raised two key concerns.
Firstly, she said she didnt think the payment of her claim should end on 31 August 2021, 
when her employment ended. She said that if Unum had been paying her claim, her 
employment would not have been terminated. And so, she would have been entitled to two 
full years of claim payments, plus the lump sum element of the policy. So, she wanted the 
claim to be paid on that basis.
Mrs M also said she considered the payment of her claim should come directly to her  
rather than going through her previous employer first. And she said this has been agreed 
with her previous employer. 
Because Mrs M disagreed with the redress recommended, this complaint has been referred 
to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As detailed above, Mrs M was unhappy that Unum declined the claim made under her 
income protection policy. Since this services involvement, Unum has agreed to accept Mrs 
Ms claim  from the end of the deferred period, until 31 August 2021, which was the date 
Mrs Ms employment ended. As Unum has now accepted this part of Mrs Ms claim, I havent 
needed to consider it any further. Instead, Ive needed to consider any elements of the 
complaint still in dispute.
Having done so, my intended decision is for Unum to pay Mrs Ms claim from the end of the 
policy deferred period, until the end of her employment on 31 August 2021. This should be 
based on the salary for Mrs Ms full-time role, which was 37 hours a week. Unum should also 
pay interest on this amount  which Ive detailed below.
I appreciate this intended outcome is going to be disappointing for Mrs M. But Id like to 
reassure the parties that Ive considered all information and evidence from the parties and 
come to my decision based on this. However, when detailing my intended decision below, 
Ive only referred to that I consider necessary to explain my outcome and reasoning.As above, Mrs M doesnt consider the payment of her claim should end on 31 August 2021, 
when her employment ended. She has said that if Unum hadnt declined her claim 
previously, and accepted it instead, her employment wouldnt have been terminated. And so, 
she would have been entitled to two full years of claim payments, plus the lump sum element 
of the policy. So, Mrs M considers that Unum need to pay her the remainder for the 
remainder of the two-year term, as well as the lump sum.
Unum is satisfied that it doesnt need to pay the claim, for any for the period after 31 August 
2021.
Ive carefully considered this element of the complaint. And Im satisfied that Unum doesnt 
need to pay for any period following 31 August 2021.
The policy terms are clear. They say that Mrs M is no longer covered under the policy, once 
her employment is terminated. Its accepted that Mrs Ms employment ended on 31 August 
2021. So, Im satisfied that on a strict application of the policy terms, Mrs M doesnt have 
cover under the policy, following 31 August 2021. So, it wouldnt be in line with the policy 
terms to require Unum to pay Mrs Ms claim, following her last day of employment. 
Mrs M has said her employment wouldnt have been terminated, if she had been receiving 
the claim payments from Unum, as she should have. And she has provided an email from 
someone at her previous employer, noting this to be the case. So, Ive thought about 
whether this means that, on a fair and reasonable basis, Unum should make any payments 
for time following her employment end date, on 31 August 2021.And, whilst I do sympathise 
with Mrs Ms position, I dont find Unum should do anything further in this respect. The terms 
of Mrs Ms contract with her previous employer, and the terms of the contract between that 
employer and Unum are entirely separate. And Unum isnt responsible for any decisions 
made by Mrs Ms previous employer  or for any agreements made between the previous 
employer and Mrs M, in relation to the end of her employment. So, I dont require Unum to 
pay the claim after Mrs Ms employment was terminated. 
Should Unum pay Mrs M a final lump sum payment?
The policy terms and conditions say that Mrs M is entitled to a final lump sum benefit if she 
remains incapacitated for the initial benefit payment period and remains incapacitated. 
That means Mrs M would have had to have been receiving benefit for two years from July 
2021. As her employment ended in August 2021, as Ive outlined above, she doesnt meet 
the criteria in the policy to receive a lump sum benefit.
As Ive outlined above the termination of Mrs Ms employment is a matter between Mrs M 
and her employer. My role is to decide whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Unum 
to step outside the policy terms and conditions to pay the lump sum. 
I dont think it would be. Unum wasnt party to the discussions between Mrs M and her 
employer. Based on the documents she has provided she received independent advice 
before agreeing to the settlement. And I dont think it would be fair to say it should pay a 
further significant sum of money to Mrs M when her employment came to an end around 12 
months before shed qualify for the benefit.   
Should the redress be paid to Mrs M or her former employer?
Unum has said it should pay the funds through Mrs Ms previous employer  who will be 
responsible for making any relevant national insurance and income tax deductions.Mrs M says she would like the claim payment to come directly to her  rather than through 
her previous employer. And said her previous employer agreed to this being the case. The 
information Mrs M has provided doesnt specify how any benefit due under the policy should 
be paid, it simply says shes the sole beneficiary. I dont think thats the same as saying that 
the payment should be made directly to Mrs M. 
Ive thought about whether Unums proposed way of providing settlement is fair. And Im 
satisfied it is.
Mrs Ms previous employer are the policyholders, and the terms of the policy do note that the 
settlement will be paid to the it. It isnt unusual for an insurer such as Unum to pay the 
relevant settlement in this way.  As above, Unum arent responsible for any separate 
discussions or agreement Mrs M had with her employer - in relation to how the amount 
would be paid. So, Im satisfied that Unum settling the claim through Mrs Ms previous 
employer is fair.
Mrs M has also queried the impact of the settlement on her taxation. Ive not seen any 
persuasive evidence that the settlement of the claim will negatively impact upon her tax 
payments. As Ive outlined above paying the claim via her employer should ensure that the 
relevant tax deductions are made.
My provisional decision
Given the above, my provisional decision is that Unum Ltd should pay Mrs Ms claim from 
the end of the deferred period to the 31 August 2021 is fair and reasonable. And I also 
consider it fair and reasonable that Unum pay 8% simple interest per annum on this amount, 
from the date of the deferred periods end to the date of settlement, less any tax properly 
deductible.
If HM Revenue & Customers requires Unum to deduct tax from this interest, Unum should 
give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if they ask for one.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Unum said it didnt have any further 
evidence or information to add. Mrs M provided a number of submissions.
I havent detailed all of Mrs Ms submissions here. But, in summary, Mrs M provided a large 
amount of detail about her health conditions, as well as comments on the terms of the 
income protection policy. In addition to this, Mrs M said she felt Unum deliberately declined 
her claim, and she felt it should be made to pay what Mrs M would have received if it hadnt 
declined her claim in the first instance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision remains the same as that noted in my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons. So, Ill not repeat these again here.
However, I would like to highlight that I have considered all additional submissions provided 
to me, by both parties. And done so alongside information we held previously. I havent 
responded to each submission in this decision. That isnt necessary. Rather, I have only 
commented on what I consider relevant to detail my reasoning. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy  but is a reflection of the information nature of this service.As above, Mrs M has provided additional submissions in relation to her health conditions, 
and on the terms and conditions of the policy. Neither Mrs Ms health, nor the terms of the 
policy are disputed. And, following our involvement, Unum has accepted Mrs Ms claim, from 
the end of the deferred period to 31 August 2021. So, I havent needed to consider this in 
detail, but only the issues that remain in dispute.
Mrs M has said that Unum shouldnt have declined her claim initially, and so should pay her 
what it would have, had it accepted the claim initially. I should explain, this is the reason that 
Unum are now going to pay Mrs Ms claim from the end of the deferred period, until her 
employment termination, on 31 August 2021. This service considered Mrs Ms claim for that 
period of time should have been accepted, and this is agreed.
And, I awarded Mrs M 8% interest, simple per annum on the above settlement, to recognise 
that Mrs M has been without those funds. So, Im satisfied I have considered the delay in 
paying the claim and made a fair and reasonable award for the time Mrs M has been without 
those funds. 
Mrs M still feels that the claim settlement should be paid further than 31 August 2021, as she 
has said her employment wouldnt have been terminated, had the claim been accepted 
earlier. Mrs M feels Unum should be held accountable for this. In my provisional decision, 
Ive explained why I dont consider Unum needs settle the claim further than 31 August 
2021. Mrs M hasnt provided any new evidence in respect of this point. 
Mrs M has reiterated the email she has provided this service from HR at her previous 
employer, which said she would not have been terminated if her claim was being paid. But, 
as detailed in my provisional decision, Unum isnt responsible for any decision made by Mrs 
Ms employer  or any agreements she had with it, in relation to the employment or its end. 
Mrs M has confirmed she sought independent advice before agreeing to the settlement and 
went ahead to agree it. I remain of the opinion that it wouldnt be fair to say Unum should 
pay a further sum to Mrs M. The policy terms were clear of the impact of termination, and the 
contract between Mrs M and her previous employer is entirely separate to the contract 
between her the previous employer and Unum. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Unum Ltd should pay Mrs Ms claim from the end 
of the deferred period to the 31 August 2021. Unum should pay 8% simple interest per 
annum on this amount, from the date of the deferred periods end to the date of settlement, 
less any tax properly deductible.
If HM Revenue & Customers requires Unum to deduct tax from this interest, Unum should 
give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if they ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman