DRN-2789582
The complaint
Mr U is unhappy with Pockit Limited (Pockit) because theyve restricted the access to 
his prepaid Mastercard following three transactions hes disputed. Hes unhappy with 
Pockit because it hasnt refunded him or issued him with a new card.
What happened
Mr U contacted Pockit on 16 November 2019 to advise there were three transactions on 
his account that he didnt authorise. The first was a £10.50 contactless transaction to a 
supermarket on 14 November 2019. Two further £10 transactions to an online casino site 
were debited on 15 November 2019 but made on 2 November 2019. Pockit blocked 
Mr Us card due to the disputed transactions.
Pockit agreed to arrange for a new card to be issued to Mr U. Mr U asked Pockit to send the 
card to a different address to the one on its records. Pockit explained it would need proof of 
change of address to issue the new card. Mr U is unable to provide proof as he doesnt pay 
any bills at the address in question.
Pockit has not refunded Mr Us account because they think Mr U either authorised these 
transactions or has been grossly negligent with his card. Pockit is not issuing a new card or 
releasing the account restriction because Mr U hasnt provided them with proof of his 
current address. Pockit has recently closed the account.
Our investigator agreed that Mr U likely authorised the transactions so did not recommend 
the £30.50 be refunded. However, she did not feel Pockit listened to Mr U regarding his 
living circumstances and this caused Mr U stress and frustration and left him unable to 
access his account. For these reasons she recommended Pockit pay Mr U £200 for the 
trouble and upset it caused.
I issued my provisional decision on 9 April 2021 explaining why I was thinking of reaching a 
different outcome to the investigator and not upholding the complaint.
Pockit has not responded. Mr U doesnt agree Pockit is acting fairly. He says he sent proof 
of address to Pockit to receive the card and it wouldnt accept this. He says Pockits policy 
says it accepts bank statements from another bank. Pockit is not acting fairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Mr Us response to my provisional decision. Mr U originally sent us a bank 
statement with his old address which our investigator told him wasnt acceptable because it 
wasnt his current address. Sometime later he provided a signed letter from his landlord. 
Pockit did not indicate whether or not this was acceptable but by then Pockit had decided to 
close Mr Us account in accordance with its terms and conditions. As I said in my provisional 
decision, I dont think Pockit acted unreasonably in closing the account in accordance with 
its terms and conditions
So, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For 
completeness, I have set this out below. 
I have concluded that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances, would be 
not to uphold this complaint. I understand this will disappoint Mr U because he feels strongly 
about whats happened. 
Generally speaking, Pockit can only hold Mr U liable for the transactions he disputes if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that he authorised them. The relevant rules say 
that for a transaction to be authorised it first must be authenticated. This can be done in 
several ways including Chip and PIN, contactless, card number, CVV and expiry date.
Having reviewed the technical evidence, Im satisfied that the transactions Mr U is disputing 
were correctly authenticated.
The authentication process for the supermarket transaction was the card and contactless 
microchip. For the online casino site, the card details were entered manually into the 
website to authenticate the payments. Ive seen the records which show that the genuine 
chip in the card was read and the correct card details were entered.
But that isnt (on its own) enough for Pockit to hold Mr U liable for the disputed 
transactions. For a payment to be authorised Mr U must also have consented to it. From 
what Ive seen I dont think its unreasonable for Pockit to have declined the claim and to 
hold Mr U liable for the transactions. I say this because, on balance, I think it is more likely 
than not that Mr U either made the transactions himself or consented to them being made. 
I say this for the following reasons:
The evidence shows the £10.50 disputed supermarket transaction was completed using the 
contactless microchip. The chip of the genuine card was used - so the person making the 
transaction had the card with them. The transaction took place two and a half minutes after 
a genuine transaction at the same supermarket.
For the two online transactions the card details were entered manually within the website 
of Mr Us online casino account (a site he used frequently)  so the person making the 
transaction had the card with them or knew the card details and also knew the password 
for Mr Us online casino account.
Mr U says that he was always in possession of his card and it is always kept in his wallet. 
He is the only person who has access to his card. He says no-one knows the card details 
or PIN. He advised that even during the time the disputed transactions occurred, he was 
still in possession of the card. Hes didnt lose or misplace his card at any time. He advised 
that hes the only person that knows his password for the online casino account and its not 
written down anywhere.
So, even if I only rely on what Mr U has directly told us, he hasnt provided us with any 
possible scenario whereby someone else, either known or unknown to him, couldve 
gained access to his card or card details.
In addition, the transaction pattern doesnt suggest an unknown person was attempting to 
access all of the money - which is what Id expect an opportunist would do. There were no 
further attempts to use the card. There are non-disputed transactions using the same card 
starting from the 16 November 2019. There were funds available on the account and 
there are no rejected transactions. There were no balance enquiries made on the account during the whole period of disputed transactions and so the person spending the money 
was doing so on the basis that money was available in the account. Usually Id expect a 
fraudster with access to both the card and/or card details to continue to try to make 
transactions or withdrawals until the card is blocked.
Looking at Mr Us account history, both the supermarket and online casino transaction 
are not unusual. Mr U regularly spends £10.50 in the same supermarket. He regularly 
spends sums of £10 with the online casino.
In summary Im persuaded that its more likely than not Mr U either made the transactions 
himself or consented to them. It follows, Pockit are entitled to hold him liable for the 
transactions.
Ive gone on to consider whether Pockit has acted in a fair and reasonable manner in 
restricting access to the account and in handling the request when asking for current proof 
of address. Ive also considered its recent decision to close Mr Us account.
Looking at the terms and conditions of the account, section 7.10 says:
We may close, suspend or restrict your Pockit Account, Pockit Card or PIN on 
reasonable grounds relating to:
7.10.2 the suspected unauthorised or fraudulent use of your Pockit Account, 
Pockit Card, card number or PIN
I am therefore satisfied that Pockit were entitled to restrict the account in response to Mr Us 
claim that he didnt make the transactions. This ensured no further fraudulent transactions 
were made. So, I dont think it act unfairly in doing so.
In order to lift the restriction on the account, Pockit tried to send Mr U a replacement card. 
Mr U asked Pockit to send the card to a different address to the one it had on its records. 
Pockit asked Mr U to provide proof of change of address. Mr U explained that he was 
unable to do so. He explained he lives in a hostel, and for this reason, he has a separate 
address for correspondence.
Pockit says it has a duty to ensure it is meeting data protection regulations. If
it was to amend Mr Us address without the relevant and compliant documentation 
this could potentially lead to a serious breach of Mr Us data. There is also the risk, 
in sending a card to an address Mr U doesnt reside at, that the card could be 
intercepted and used fraudulently.
Whilst the complaint was being investigated here, Pockit decided to close the account. It 
did so in line with its terms and conditions, giving Mr U 60 days notice (section 21 Ending 
the agreement). Pockit says Mr U has made multiple comments to members of Pockit 
staff that it finds to be completely unacceptable. Having listened to the call recording on 28 
November 2019 and noted the email correspondence of 7 December 2019, in which Mr U 
makes threats to staff, I dont think Pockit acted unreasonably in closing the account in 
accordance with its terms and conditions.
In summary, I think Pockit acted fairly and reasonably in restricting the account, requesting 
proof of change of address. It follows I wont be asking Pockit to do anything.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman