DRN-3674344
The complaint
Ms M and Mr S are unhappy that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) declined 
their claim for theft under their home insurance policy.
The policy is in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Ms M.
What happened
Briefly, Ms M advertised an item for sale online and agreed to accept payment on collection 
from her home. The buyer completed a bank transfer by phone app on collection. Ms M had 
no reason to doubt the transfer was completed and the buyer left with the item. The 
exchange happened on the doorstep of Ms Ms home.
Ms M almost immediately found the transaction hadnt gone through, so she contacted the 
buyer. After a brief reassurance that the transaction would be completed, the buyer deleted 
all online evidence, preventing further contact. Ms M didnt receive the payment. Ms M 
claimed under her home insurance policy for the theft. 
Admiral declined the claim because theft by deception wasnt covered under the policy 
unless deception was used to gain entry to the home. Admiral also said that the garden 
didnt fall within the definition of the home, so any deception used to gain access to the 
garden wouldnt have been covered anyway.
Ms M complained.
At first, our investigator thought Admiral should honour the claim because it was 
unreasonable to exclude the garden from the definition of home. After reconsidering the 
complaint, she remained of the view that the garden was part of the home, but she didnt 
think the buyer had intended to take the item by deception. Our investigator didnt uphold Ms 
Ms complaint.
Ms M disagreed. She said the pretence of being a genuine buyer was the deception used to 
gain access to her home.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Ms Ms complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
While I realise this is not what Ms M hoped for, Ive provisionally decided not to uphold her 
complaint. While the outcome is the same as that proposed by our investigator, my reasons 
are slightly different. Therefore, I considered it appropriate for both parties to have a further 
opportunity to comment. Ill explain.
My role is to decide whether Admiral declined Ms Ms claim fairly and in line with the policy. 
The circumstances of the theft arent disputed, so I wont be commenting on every piece of 
evidence - our rules dont require me to. Instead, Ill focus on the key issues.
Admiral declined Ms Ms claim under the following policy exceptions:
19 Deception
Any loss by deception, unless the deception is used to gain entry to your home
Admiral said, as the buyer didnt enter Ms Ms home it couldnt consider her claim.
Definition of home
The private residence and its garages, sheds or outbuildings, at the address shown 
on your policy documents, providing it is used for private and domestic purposes only
Admiral said the garden didnt fall within the definition of home, so the theft didnt fall within 
the policy cover.
I agree that the garden isnt named within the definition, but I dont think it was fair for 
Admiral to decline the claim for this reason alone. Thats because Ms M confirmed that the 
buyer was on her doorstep, occasionally stepping into her home. I expect Ms M considers 
the entire property her home, so I dont think it was helpful for Admiral to rely on this part of 
the policy.
Theft by deception
I dont think theres any dispute that Ms M suffered a loss by deception. The issue, here, is 
that the policy only covers loss where deception is used to gain entry to the home. For the 
purposes of my decision, Im accepting that the garden falls within the definition of home.
I can understand why Ms M thinks her claim is covered. The buyer went to great lengths to 
obtain her property by deception. But thats exactly what the buyer did  he gained Ms Ms 
property by deception. The deception wasn't about gaining entry to her home to make the 
most of opportunities once in there. The deception started even before the buyer attended 
Ms Ms home and continued thereafter. A classic example of gaining entry by deception 
would be cold-calling and pretending to be someone from an approved organisation and 
persuading the homeowner to let them in. Thats not what happened here. 
In Ms Ms case, she was expecting the buyer. The deception was around the intent, or not, 
to pay for the item she handed over: not about a deception purely to gain entry to her home. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that Admiral fairly declined Ms Ms claim under the policy which 
excluded cover for theft by deception.
In summary, theres no dispute that this act of deception happened to Ms M and Im sorry 
her belongings were taken while she acted in good faith. I realise that wont come as any comfort to her, but I cant fairly hold Admiral responsible for settling a claim which doesnt fall 
within the policy cover. I dont plan to ask Admiral to do anything here.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Admiral had nothing further to add, and Ms M didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the evidence again but, as neither party has made any further submissions or 
provided further evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional 
findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Ms Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman