DRN-2588968
The complaint
 Mr W, on behalf of Mrs W, complains Santander UK Plc have refused to refund a cash 
withdrawal Mrs W made as part of a scam.
What happened
 On 13 January 2020, Mrs W was contacted by a fraudster pretending to be the security 
team of another bank. Mr W says the phone number the fraudsters called from appeared to 
be the same as the genuine number of that bank, which Mrs W checked by looking at her 
bank card. 
The fraudsters told her it was necessary to make withdrawals from both her Santander 
account and the bank they were calling from, in order to test her account for security 
purposes. The money, she was told, would be returned the following day.
She was instructed not to tell anyone about this and, if asked, to inform the bank the money 
was for her sons divorce. Mrs W visited a Santander branch and withdrew £3,500 in cash. 
She also withdrew the same amount from another bank. It isnt disputed that Santander 
asked some questions about the withdrawal, including its purpose, and Mrs W gave the 
explanation shed been instructed to give.  
After she returned home a courier arrived to collect the money. Further requests from the 
fraudsters followed, which Mrs W, tired from the earlier events, refused. The following day, 
after realising the money hadnt been returned to her account as promised, Mrs W contacted 
her daughter.
Her daughter got in touch with her son, Mr W, and the matter was reported to Santander and 
the police that day. Santander said branch staff had taken sufficient steps to question Mrs W 
and were satisfied with her responses, so wouldnt refund the transaction. Mr W questioned, 
among other things, why the provisions of the Banking Protocol had not been put into place.
One of our investigators upheld the complaint. They were satisfied the withdrawal was out of 
character for Mrs W and didnt think Santander had done enough, especially considering Mrs 
Ws age, to prevent the scam. They also thought that £200 compensation was fair to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs W.
Santander disagreed, in summary it said:
- The transaction was not particularly out of character for Mrs W, left a considerable 
sum in her account, and the fact it was a cash withdrawal was not, in itself, any 
indication of potential financial harm.
- It had asked Mrs W a number of questions about the withdrawal, including whether 
shed been told her account was at risk or what to say, and had been satisfied with 
her responses.
- Both Mrs W and Mr W were known to the branch, which reassured staff.
- It was reasonably entitled to rely on Mrs W giving honest responses to questions.
- Contrary to the investigators suggestion, Mrs Ws age had been taken into account 
and its what prompted questions to be asked.
Santander also referenced the recent Philipp judgement, which it said supported the view it 
had taken.
 
So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I accept that this was an authorised transaction even though Mrs W was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. So, although she was tricked into carrying it out, under the Payment 
Service Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of her account, Mrs W is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But that is not the end of the story:  
Regulated firms like Santander are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers (Principle 6).
 
Firms also have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish 
and maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable 
requirements and standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk 
that the firm might be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R, which has 
applied since 2001). And over the years, the FSA and its successor the FCA have 
published a series of papers setting out non-exhaustive examples of good and poor 
practice found when reviewing measures taken by banks to counter financial crime.
Firms are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing of terrorism requirements.  In January 2020 those 
requirements included maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example 
through customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the 
business relationship (including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken 
throughout the course of the relationship).   
The law itself also recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a 
payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily 
proof) for believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the 
funds of its customer (known as the Quincecare duty).  
In addition, as a matter of good industry practice in January 2020, I consider firms should in 
any event have taken proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something also 
recognised by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations 
February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.  
For branch transactions like this one, those steps may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate.
I am aware that Santander considers too high a standard has been applied to what is 
expected of it; and it has referred to the Quincecare duty in support of its argument. I am 
mindful that the courts have interpreted Quincecare narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case. 
I am also aware of the recent Philipp judgment Santander have referenced in their 
submissions, where the judge took a different view about the Quincecare duty. Im not 
suggesting the Quincecare duty applies to this case. And notwithstanding what the judge 
said in the context of deciding a narrow point of law, we have a duty to resolve complaints 
based on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, taking 
into account not just the law, but also regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time  in other 
words, the standards I have set out above. 
So, in this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in their 
dealings with Mrs W when they processed the £3,500 payment.
Its not entirely clear whether it was simply Mrs Ws age which led Santander to ask further 
questions, or they thought the transaction itself was unusual. But for completeness, and to 
address Santanders response to our investigators view, I am persuaded that it was. The 
only payment over £1,000 in the preceding six months was a card payment of £1,885.50. 
Santander reference a larger payment  but that appears to have taken place well over a 
year before. So, despite leaving a significant balance on the account, the cash withdrawal of 
£3,500 clearly stands out as atypical activity. 
Its not just the amount that stands out here  but also the nature of the activity. Statements 
provided by Santander show Mrs W hadnt made a single branch cash withdrawal in the six 
months. 
And, this happened against a background of cash withdrawal scams, particularly those 
involving the elderly, being especially well-known to banks. Indeed, scams of this nature are 
exactly what the Banking Protocol is designed to combat. Its provisions recognise that 
customers will commonly have been given cover stories and even recommends the 
involvement of the police  where suspicions cannot be allayed by questioning. 
Its also important to mention that both the Banking Protocol and The British Bankers 
Associations report Improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances 
recognise that Mrs Ws age made her more at risk of being targeted by a scam. 
So, there was an unusual transaction in terms of the amount and type, a set of 
circumstances that were consistent with a very well-known type of scam and a customer 
whose age potentially made them more vulnerable to being scammed. Its taking these 
factors into account that Ive considered whether Santanders questioning went far enough.
I understand there isnt much dispute between the parties about the conversation that took 
place in branch. It appears to have been limited to a question or two about what the purpose 
of the withdrawal was, as well as some general questions about whether Mrs W had been 
asked or pressured into making it. 
The Banking Protocol recommends further steps that can be taken  including taking a 
customer to a quiet area and asking further questions. Neither of these appear to have 
happened here  presumably because Santander were happy with the responses received from Mrs W. Ive thought about whether that was reasonable, considering the answers she 
gave. In doing so, Ive taken into account that the Banking Protocol recognises customers 
may not always give the true reason for a transaction.  
Mrs Ws answer to the question around the purpose of the withdrawal  that it was for her 
sons divorce  strikes me as quite unsatisfactory. I understand the banks reluctance to pry 
into what, if true, would be a sensitive matter but I think there was a lot to be concerned 
about in this response. 
The most obvious issue is why Mrs W would be withdrawing this money in cash or what 
divorce related expenses would need to be paid in this way. Theres no indication that 
another payment option was discussed with Mrs W. And, while in the context of the scam, an 
alternative payment method would have almost certainly been refused by Mrs W, I question 
whether she would have been able to give a satisfactory explanation as to why it was 
necessary to have the money in cash. In fact, given that shed simply been told to say the 
money was for her sons divorce, I doubt the extent to which Mrs Ws cover story would have 
stood up to further gentle probing by branch staff. And, its likely that Mrs Ws responses 
would have led to further, open, questions being asked. Santander suggest Mrs W might not 
have responded to further questions or been truthful. Well never know, but a lack of 
response in itself would be a cause for concern. 
Santander say Mrs W and her son were known to the branch (though Mr W disputes that 
either of them were known to the cashier who served Mrs W). But, even if they were known 
to staff, its hard to see why this would give much reassurance to the bank. Mr W says that 
the only visits Mrs W had made to the branch had been with him. So, if anything, Mrs Ws 
presence without her son might have been a cause for concern, rather than reassurance.
The other questions asked  about whether Mrs W had been told her money was at risk, 
whether shed been put under any pressure or given a cover story are quite general. Its not 
clear there was any attempt to go further and outline specific scenarios or under what 
circumstances someone might be asked to withdraw money. Had this happened, Mrs W may 
have recognised her circumstances in those scenarios and stopped what she was doing.
Its relevant that Mrs W refused further requests from the fraudsters, visited the branch the 
following day to check whether the money had been returned and, when it hadnt, contacted 
her daughter to report her concerns. This suggests that the spell Mrs W was under was not 
unbreakable and, I think, indicates further questions from the bank are more likely than not 
to have prompted Mrs Ws own doubts in what she was doing. 
I note Santanders comments that Mrs Ws age was taken into account  and thats what 
prompted questions. However, given there were a number of reasons that this transaction 
stood out, I dont think the steps taken were sufficient or fully recognised the risk involved in 
the transaction. Id have also fairly and reasonably expected there to have been some 
concern about Mrs Ws safety given somebody of her age, would be leaving the branch with 
this amount of cash in her possession. Im of the view that most people would feel quite 
vulnerable carrying £3,500 in cash around with them.
Overall, I dont think Mrs W would have been able to satisfactorily answer further questions 
and, had they been asked, theres a strong chance Mrs W would have recognised the 
situation she was in or it would have become clear to Santander that she was the victim of a 
scam. So, Im persuaded that the loss would have been prevented if Santander had taken 
further steps to question Mrs W.
I have also considered whether Mrs W should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. At the point Mrs W made the payment its clear she believed what the fraudsters had told her. It also appears they may have used tricks, such as spoofing a 
banks number, which are not well known, to convince her of this. She understood the 
measures she took were necessary to test the security of her account, and she did not 
believe her actions posed any risk to her. Im mindful that the bank is the expert here and, 
had it known the full circumstances, Id expect it to quickly identify Mrs W was the victim of a 
scam, the same cant be said for her. She was a vulnerable person with little or no 
knowledge of financial crime. So, Im satisfied there was no contributory negligence on her 
part. 
Im persuaded that Santander should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mrs W for the loss she 
suffered without any reduction, as well as interest to compensate her for being deprived of 
the money she lost. Given the consistent balance of Mrs Ws account over the year or so 
before and after the scam, that interest should be paid at the account rate.
Finally, I think an award of £200 compensation is appropriate here. Santander recognised 
this would have been a very distressing experience for Mrs W and I understand her 
confidence in dealing with her own banking affairs has been affected as a result of this. And, 
while I acknowledge that the main cause of Mrs Ws distress is the actions of the fraudsters, 
much of that would have been avoided had Santander prevented the transaction from taking 
place.
Putting things right
I direct Santander UK Plc to;
- Pay Mrs W £3,500 within 28 days of receiving notification of her acceptance of my 
decision
- Pay interest on that sum at the account rate from the date of loss to the date of 
refund
- Pay Mrs W £200 compensation
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint against Santander UK Plc, and direct it 
to put things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman