DRN-4322283
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the way Sainsburys Bank Plc dealt with his request for money 
back in relation to a transaction hed made to buy furniture. 
What happened
The events of the complaint are well known to both parties, so Im not going to go over 
everything again in detail. Im also only going to focus on the complaint points that are still 
outstanding. In summary, Mr A bought furniture from a supplier in November 2022 using his 
Sainsburys Bank credit card. The furniture cost around £4,000. When the furniture was 
received, Mr A wasnt happy with it. He didnt think it was as described because he says the 
colour didnt match the pictures on the merchants website. He asked to cancel the order.
The merchant let Mr A know he had the option to return the goods at his own cost for a full 
refund or it could collect them at a cost. Mr A complained and asked the merchant to collect 
the goods. Mr A arranged with the merchant the return of the furniture, and the merchant 
refunded around £3,500 because it says its terms allowed it to make a deduction up to 25% 
of each item returned as a collection fee. Mr A complained to the merchant about the 
deduction from the refund for collection because he says the goods werent as described. 
The merchant referred to its terms about collection costs and also highlighted other terms 
that said it couldnt guarantee the way a customers computer displayed colours would 
accurately reflect the colour of the goods. The terms said the pictures on the website are a 
guideline. 
Mr A was unhappy he didnt receive a full refund so contacted Sainsburys Bank for help. 
Sainsburys Bank asked for evidence and responded to say Mr A had agreed to the 
merchants terms and conditions and there was no valid chargeback claim that could be 
made. It also said there was no evidence of a breach of contract. Mr A complained. 
Sainsburys Bank considered Mr As complaint but based on the merchants terms it didnt 
uphold it. It looks like Sainsburys Bank did, however, offer Mr A £50 compensation because 
Mr A said it didnt call him as requested when giving its outcome. 
Mr A remained unhappy. He says Sainsburys Bank didnt understand consumer rights and 
he was unhappy with the way it dealt with his claim and subsequent complaint. Mr A says 
the matter caused him stress and inconvenience. He says he wanted to close his account 
with Sainsburys Bank but wasnt sure if he could do this with a dispute ongoing. Mr A 
referred the complaint to our service and requested an apology and appropriate 
compensation. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt make any recommendations. 
She considered Sainsburys Banks handling of the chargeback claim, along with its liability 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. She also considered how Sainsburys 
Bank had handled things generally. Based on the evidence shed seen, our investigator 
thought Sainsburys Bank had handled things fairly. So, she didnt make any 
recommendations. 
Mr A didnt agree. He says our investigator simply repeated what Sainsburys Bank had said. 
He said she didnt understand the complaint. He also said our investigator ignored the 
response from the merchant that acknowledges colours can vary. As things couldnt be 
resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im considering whether Sainsburys Bank has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it 
handled Mr As request for getting his money back. In situations like this, Sainsburys Bank 
can consider raising a chargeback or assessing a claim under section 75. 
The chargeback process provides a way for a card issuer to ask for a payment to be 
refunded in certain circumstances. The chargeback process is subject to rules made by the 
relevant card scheme. Its not a guaranteed way of getting money back. 
While its good practice for a card issuer to attempt to chargeback where certain conditions 
are met and theres some prospect of success, there are grounds or dispute conditions set 
by the relevant card scheme that need to be considered. If these are not met, a chargeback 
is unlikely to succeed. And something going wrong with a merchant wont always lead to a 
successful claim. Its important to note this isnt a complaint against the merchant. 
Section 75 is a statutory protection that enables Mr A to make a like claim against 
Sainsburys Bank for breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier paid by credit 
card in respect of an agreement it had with him for the provision of goods or services. There 
are certain conditions that need to be met in order for section 75 to apply.
Our investigator considered the evidence Mr A had submitted to Sainsburys Bank for his 
claim. And she asked Mr A if he had any pictures to show the goods werent as described. 
He provided pictures from the merchants website and says these show blue sofas. He says 
he didnt take any pictures of the sofas that arrived. But he says they were teal or green. He 
says he didnt think thered be an issue obtaining a refund. 
Im required to decide Mr As complaint quickly and with minimum formality. Ive thought 
about whether a chargeback was likely to succeed, or whether theres sufficient evidence of 
a breach of contract Sainsburys Bank would be liable for under section 75. But the problem 
is, I simply dont have enough evidence the sofas werent as described. Mr A hasnt been 
able to supply any pictures for example. I think the chargeback was unlikely to succeed 
based on the evidence Mr A submitted to Sainsburys Bank because it didnt have the 
required supporting documentation. Moreover, even if I were to say the merchants term 
relating to the colours shown on its website was unfair (and therefore not binding on Mr A) 
for the same reasons I still dont have sufficient evidence the goods werent as described. 
So, I dont find theres enough to show theres a breach of contract Sainsburys Bank is liable 
for either. 
Ive also thought about Mr As response to our investigators view. He says, most 
importantly, the merchant had emailed him to acknowledge the issue with the colour and 
confirm it varied. Ive reviewed the email he referred to. The agent was responding to Mr As 
comment about the colour being described as air force and that when searching on the 
internet he says this is shown as blue  and not green or teal. The agent responded to say 
when she searched the definition of air force on the internet she found it could vary. She 
wasnt confirming the goods werent as described.  Therefore, to summarise, what Ive seen is that:
The merchant set out the photos on its website were a guideline and it couldnt 
guarantee Mr As computer would display the colour of the goods accurately. 
The merchant set out terms that upon cancellation it could make a deduction from 
the refund of up to 25% to cover the cost of collection. 
The merchant told Mr A a deduction would be made before collecting the goods.
Mr A had the option to return the goods himself to receive a full refund.  
Mr A has explained the colour of the sofas delivered was not as described but hasnt 
been able to supply any supporting documentation.  
All things considered, I think Sainsburys Bank dealt with the claim fairly based on the 
evidence Ive seen. I appreciate its a lot of money to lose out on for returning the goods. But 
based on what Ive set out above, I dont have the grounds to direct Sainsburys Bank to 
reimburse Mr A the collection charges.
Ive finally thought about how Sainsburys Bank handled things generally. Mr A was unhappy 
with its overall service. From what I can see, the claim was raised in January 2023 and 
Sainsburys Bank declined the claim the following month. So, I dont find it took an 
unreasonable amount of time to deal with it. Sainsburys Bank offered Mr A £50 because he 
says he wasnt called when the claim was decided as requested. I find this to be broadly fair 
in the circumstances. Im not making a further award. I understand the £50 offer is still on the 
table  although I appreciate Mr A was unhappy with this. Ill leave it to Mr A to decide if he 
now wishes to accept it. 
My final decision
Sainsburys Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Mr A £50 to settle the complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Sainsburys Bank Plc should pay £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman