DRN-1362200
 
The complaint
Mr R complains about the conflicting information he received from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) 
when he attempted to open up a joint account. This he complains, led to needless 
communication and wasted time.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr R and Lloyds so I wont repeat it in any great detail. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather, I dont think its relevant to the 
issues I need to deal with. However in summary it is this; 
Following the direction of the Court in an unrelated matter, Mr R was seeking to open a joint 
bank account with a third party, with the safeguard that both parties would need to authorise 
any transactions. Mr R called Lloyds head office who told him that would not be possible. He 
then went into two different branches, and received a conflicting explanation that it would in 
fact be possible. As a result he lodged a complaint.
Lloyds investigated and upheld Mr Rs complaint apologising and offering to pay him £150 
for any distress and inconvenience they may have caused and a further £16 to cover his 
expenses. Mr R agreed to this resolution, but later changed his mind when he learned that 
the third party had subsequently visited another branch and received the same wrong 
conflicting information. As such he said he was unhappy with Lloyds resolution and brought 
his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into it the complaint and having done so, thought that there had been 
some failings in the level of service provided to Mr R but that the amount of compensation 
paid had been fair and reasonable. Mr R didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint 
be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate. Our service 
doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, direct that they change their 
processes, or punish them. That is for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
We cant give businesses direction on policy or procedure. We can only say whether it is a 
policy or procedure which is being applied fairly and reasonably to all their customers. The 
FCA takes a principles-based approach to conduct regulation and lets businesses choose 
how they incorporate those principles into the way they deal with customers. This is reflected 
in the remit the FCA has given this service under the Dispute Rules in the FCA Handbook. 
What we recommend however can influence how businesses review their policies,Lloyds has accepted that it didnt get things right and it had given conflicting information to 
Mr R. And because of that Lloyds has accepted some compensation should be offered to Mr 
R. In fact it has done that and paid him a total of £166. When it was offered and accepted by 
Mr R I must infer from his acceptance that he considered the amount to be fair  otherwise 
he would not have accepted it. 
But matters then changed. The issue which appears to have arisen after his acceptance is 
that the third party also received similar conflicting information when she made an enquiry in 
a branch. Two issues arise from this the first being that in circumstances like the one I am 
dealing with here, this service looks only at the impact any business error may have had on 
the person bringing the complaint. Any inconvenience and distress occasioned by the third 
party as in this case, is their inconvenience and distress, not Mr Rs. As such I am 
concerned with impact on Mr R not the third party.  
Secondly, the position regarding the account opening had been clarified for Mr R prior to the 
third party making the enquiry with the branch and so arguably, there was no need for the 
enquiry in branch to be made.
I also appreciate that Mr R takes the view that it would be reasonable to expect Lloyds to 
advise all their branches of the correct way of dealing with a request such as his in order to 
prevent it happening to others. Lloyds have addressed that element of his complaint by 
explaining that to notify all their branches of every error made, would result in a significant 
amount of email traffic, the volume of which would be likely to dilute the importance of all 
such communications.  In other words Lloyds are saying it is very much a judgement call, 
and they determined that in this instance it was not necessary. I think that is a reasonable 
position for Lloyds to take and given it is a matter of their own policy it is not a matter upon 
which I can give them any direction.
So, having said that, I think the decision I have to make distils down to what the correct 
amount of compensation ought to be. Lloyds has paid Mr R £166 and Ive given further 
thought as to whether it is sufficient. In some complaints, the problems a customer 
encounters dont just affect them financially, and in part that is the case here. Those 
problems can lead to the customer being caused some trouble and upset and it is only right 
that the business should think about what it could do to put matters right. But the trouble and 
upset caused needs to be balanced and measured against  the ups and downs of daily life in 
dealing with other people, businesses and organisations, and recognising that that can be 
inconvenient at times.
Ive also considered the level of awards this service has made for distress and 
inconvenience in similar cases, and Ive taken account of the fact that Mr R initially agreed 
that £166 was sufficient for the upset and inconvenience he had endured personally. So, 
putting all of this into the balance I think what Lloyds paid is fair and reasonable. And I think 
it is enough to put matters right.
So, although Mr R will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Lloyds has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Lloyds has already paid £166 to settle this complaint, and that is fair and reasonable. So my 
final decision is that I dont require Lloyds to do anything else.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman