DRN-3961612
The complaint
Mr F complains that when HSBC UK Bank Plc sold his holding of shares (Ill refer to these as 
his B shares) it didnt have his consent or any other authority to do so. He says HSBC didnt 
comply with any terms and conditions and as a result of its actions, the overall cost to him 
when he reinstated his holding of B shares was more than £11,600, which he wants HSBC 
to reimburse. 
What happened
Mr F had a holding of B shares hed acquired during the 1980/1990s in a corporate ISA 
account administered by HSBC. The B shares were of particular importance and significance 
to Mr F. They also represented his largest single investment and he planned to rely on these 
for income in retirement.
In July 2022, HSBC wrote to Mr F informing him that it would be closing this account and he 
had until 29 September 2022 to provide instructions in relation to his B shares. HSBC listed 
the options that were available to him, as follows: 
1. If you don't provide us with an instruction by 2pm on 29 September 2022, we'll take
this as your consent to sell your shares and open an HSBC UK Bank plc Loyalty Cash
ISA for you. We'll transfer the cash balance to the new ISA on 17 October 2022 which
will ensure that you don't lose the tax efficient ISA status. We've enclosed an HSBC
Loyalty Cash ISA Summary Box. More information, including Terms and Conditions,
can be found at: hsbc.co.uk/savings/products/cash-isa/
2. Apply for an HSBC InvestDirect Stocks and Shares ISA account and transfer your
holdings.
3. Transfer your shares to another ISA provider of your choice. To do this you'll need to
complete a transfer application with your new ISA Manager.
4. Instruct us to close the ISA and withdraw your money.
HSBC sent a reminder letter the following month, reiterating the above options and a further 
follow up letter repeating this information in September 2022.
When no response was received from Mr F, HSBC sold his shares in line with option 1 
above. 
Mr F however hadnt seen any of HSBCs letters about this until he returned home after this 
had all happened so hed missed the chance to transfer his B shares before they were sold. 
When he complained to HSBC about the cost of having to buy back his B shares and the 
fact HSBC hadnt emailed him or followed up his lack of response, despite knowing his work 
took him away from home for periods, HSBC didnt agree it had done anything wrong. In 
summary it said HSBC had acted within its terms and conditions and given Mr F sufficient 
notice of the changes and option s available ahead of the sale. It said th at the fai rest way to 
ensure all customers were made aware of these changes was by post. 
Mr F remained unhappy with the response, so referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review. One of our investigators considered the complaint. In brief summa ry, he 
didnt agree that HSBC had been responsible for any wrong-doing or consider that HSBC 
was liable for the cost Mr F incurred buying back his B shareholding. 
Mr F didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to reach a final 
decision on his compla int. He mainly says (in bri ef summary):
the investigator didnt carry out a sufficiently thorough or even-handed investigation.
He should have considered HSBCs general handling of the share scheme and how 
they shut it down, did not follow procedure, had no terms and conditions to do so and 
subsequent communications to me regarding my complaint as well as properly  taking 
into account the specific impact on Mr F, which wasnt known when he first  raised his 
complaint.
Mr F had previously complained to HSBC regarding this account in 2021 and given  
HSBC clear notification that it should communicate with him by email because he  was 
frequently abroad  which HSBC had ignored when sending him letters about  this 
matter by ordinary post.
HSBC failed to provide Mr F with details of the Cash ISA so hed had to make  contact 
himself to find out this information so he could initiate a transfer. He finally  found out 
the details of the account on 8 November and this isnt covered in the  investigators 
view.
The investigator hadnt taken into account HSBCs overall handling of the case after  it 
admitted to Mr F during a telephone call it had been  inundated with complaints  and 
this should have been investigated further.
No mention was made as to why HSBC could not move the corporate ISA into an  
ordinary share ISA pending contact from the corporate ISA holder to confirm any  
further details required and the investigator hadnt asked for relevant information that  
HSBC had refused to disclose to Mr F.
The account was transferred to HSBC from the previous administrators and Mr F had 
never seen or agreed to any terms and conditions. These did not in any event say 
HSBC would send letters by post to inform of the closure of the scheme and in 2022,  
he said communication electronically by email is usual.
There are no terms and conditions relating to closure of the scheme.
Mr F received the funds on 6 February 2023 and reinstated his B shareholding at an 
overall cost of more than £11,600.
Mr F was not issued with a final letter in response to his complaint.
HSBC held Mr F's email address and mobile telephone number on file and it would 
have been reasonable under the circumstances for HSBC to make use of this  
information.HSBC should have been asked when the decision was made to close the scheme,
especially as it had previously said in 2021 that no further investments could be
made into the scheme.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carried o ut an independent review and having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator and Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain my 
approach and how I've reached my decision.
I appreciate how strongly Mr F feels about this complaint. Hes provided detailed 
submissions to support his view and whilst Ive summarised some of his main concerns in 
my own words, Ive carefully read and considered everything hes said. We provide an 
informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive approached the 
complaint. Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core issues I need to 
address in order to reach a fair outcome. My role is to consider the evidence presented by 
both parties and reach a fair and reasonable overall decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice. 
In simple terms, to uphol d this complaint there would have to be persuasive eviden ce that 
made it more likely than not that HSBC had done something wrong or acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some way that caused Mr F financial loss or other detriment. So I have 
approached the complaint with this in mind.
Thinking first about HSBCs Corporate ISA Terms and Conditions, Mr F wouldve had to 
agree to these when HSBC took over from the previous administrators in order to be able to 
continue holding his B shares and appoint HSBC as the account manager  which is the 
arrangement he had in place. 
The releva nt part of the terms and conditions that applies here provides as follows:
15.5 We may also end our agreement with you and close your Account for any other valid 
reason by giving you at least 30 days advance notice in writing.   
I think the material terms relating to Mr F's complaint are clear, fair, and not misleading. 
HSBC confirmed the reason for closing the corporate ISA account was due to HSBC 
discontinuing the product scheme and it wrote to Mr F at his registered address giving him 
60 days notice. I appreciate that Mr F prefers a different interpretation, in particular, he feels 
the terms dont cover the closure of the scheme and says there was no valid closure reason 
given by HSBC. But I cant fairly say, based on the information I've seen, that HSBC did 
anything wrong in breach of its terms and conditions when it closed the account. 
I agree that, even if HSBC acted in line with its terms and conditions, it doesnt automatically 
mean it treated Mr F is a way that was fair and reasonable, and Ive thought carefully about 
this. 
Central to Mr F's complaint is the way HSBC communicated with him. He feels it was 
unreasonable for HSBC to rely on sending him important information in the post because his 
view is that this is now an outmoded way of communicating and, as I understand it, he felt he 
had previously made it clear to HSBC that it should communicate with him by email. He says this was particularly the case concerning communications about his B share s since HSBC 
already knew that this account was imp ortant to him, following the complaint he had raised 
about it in 2021, when hed made clear the necessity of using email to reach him. 
I've carefully listened to the call recording Mr F refers to and seen the email exchange he 
relies on when he says HSBC had clear instructions to communicate only by email. 
During the call with the complaint handler at HSBC in August 2021, Mr F was asked if he 
preferred his response to be sent to him by post or by email, and he said: I would probably 
like an email . Mr F provided his email address and HSBC followed up with an email. But I 
think HSBC reasonably understood that Mr F's stated email preference was specifically in 
relation to the complaint being dealt with at the time. I dont find that Mr F gave any clear 
notification of a general standing instruction that he wanted all future communication by 
email as he was frequently away from his home travelling abroad.
And Mr F's email sent 5 October 2021 says: Note that I will be away from my home address 
until the new year and Id therefore appreciate communication through email . This further 
suggests to me that his requ ests for communication by email were specific to those times he 
expected to be away fro m home. 
So I dont think HSBC ought fairly or reasonably to have known that its letters about the 
scheme closure sent in July, August and September 2022, wouldnt be seen by Mr F in time 
for him to be able to act on any of the available options. It explained that its view was that 
post was the most reliable way of sending mailings out to all affected customers, given that 
not everyone had access to emails. 
That seems reasonable to me  also bearing in mind that in the terms and conditions it says  
Communications refers to post or telephone. 
Im also mindful th at HSBC provided twice a s much notice as it was required to g ive. I cant 
fairly say, based on everything I've seen and heard, that HSBC had any good reason to think 
that Mr F wouldnt have received its communications about this in time to provide his 
instructions. And the letters HSBC sent him set out clearly what would happen if no 
instructions were provided  and HSBC did as it said it would, in the absence of any 
communication from Mr F.
To sum up, I find th at :
there was no particular reason why HSBC wouldve known that Mr F was unlikely to 
receive post sent to his home address during July  September 2022, and
I dont think HSBC wouldve had any particular reason to think it unusual that Mr F 
hadnt responded to the closure notice when that scenario was effectively covered in  
its letter and one of the options he could choose, or
that HSBC should reasonably have been prompted to email Mr F, simply by virtue of 
the fact hed made a complaint about its handling of the account the previous year  
and asked for a response on that matter to be sent to him by email.
HSBC fairly and reasonably sent notification of the planned closure in line with the  
account terms and conditions by post to Mr F's address  where it was delivered.
HSBC is not responsible for the fact that Mr F wasnt living at his home address at 
the time and he had no arrangements in place to enable him to monitor or respond topost. 
HSBC didnt make any error or treat Mr F in a way that wasnt fair or reasonable  
when it sold Mr F's B shares after giving him due notice that it would do this if he  
didnt provide alternative instructions by the deadline date  as Mr F didnt do this.
I appreciate that Mr F thinks the sale proceeds should have been treated differently,  
but I dont consider that transferring the cash balance following the sale of his B  
shares to an HSBC UK Bank plc Loyalty Cash ISA it set up for him was unfair or  
unreasonable.
I appreciate that if hed known about the planned closure ahead of time, then Mr F would 
have taken steps to move his existing shares and retain them and he feels the two month 
period for closure of the scheme was in any event insufficient. But I havent seen enough to 
persuade me that I can fairly hold HSBC responsible for the cost of buying back his shares. 
After taking into account everything that Mr F and HSBC have told me, I havent seen 
enough to show that HSBC did anything wrong or that it treated Mr F in a way that wasnt 
fair and reasonable. So I cant uphold this complaint. 
The purpo se of my decision isnt to address eve ry single point raised and so I have 
concentrated on what I consider to be the main points that affect the outcome of this 
complaint. But looking at the other points Mr F mentioned in response to the investigators 
view, I can see these are of concern to him and so I would say as follows:
HSBCs records show it sent a  New Cash ISA letter to Mr F on 11 November 2022.  
Although Mr F wanted information more quickly and he felt the need to chase up this  
himself, I dont think that was an unreasonable timescale. Hed already received the  
three letters HSBC sent telling him what would happen to his money and information  
about the new ISA. And HSBC provided the requested information over the phone  
straightaway when he called. So I dont find this is enough of a reason for me to  
uphold this complaint.
HSBC told 
Mr F that the demise of the platform had resulted in a number of  
complaints, but our role is to investigate individual complaints so weve looked into  
the particulars of Mr F's complaint. How businesses choose to operate and the  
services they offer are matters that come under the oversight of the regulator - the  
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Whilst Mr F wanted to know why HSBC could not move the corporate ISA into an 
ordinary share ISA pending contact from the corporate ISA holder to confirm any  
further details required, I have found that the options HSBC offered were fair and  
reasonable, so this isnt something I consider this service needs to follow up further.
I appreciate that Mr F was still involved in buying back his shares when the  
investigator started looking into his complaint, but this wasnt a reason to hold up an 
investigation and it didnt stop the investigator considering the merits of this  
complaint. The question of loss and redress is a separate issue and it doesnt arise if  
we dont first identify fair and reasonable grounds to uphold a complaint
Mr F raised some additional complaints during the course of this matter, including the  
time it took for HSBC to process the transfer of his funds to his new provider. We can  
only look into the scope of his original complaint  it wouldnt be fair to make findings  
on a matter that HSBC hasnt first had an opportunity to address and put right if needbe. But in case it assists Mr F to know, I can confirm that HSBCs records show that 
funds were transferred fro m HSBC on 25 January 2023. 
HSBC sent Mr F its final response letter by email on 5 December 2022. All the
regulatory requirements HSBC had to meet, including referral rights to us were
clearly set out. The fact that Mr F chose to engage in further correspondence
after receiving this letter doesnt mean he didnt receive a final response from
HSBC. This was confirmed by HSBC when it wrote to him further on 11 January
2023, addressing some of the points hed raised, and confirming that its email
sent on 5 December 2022 was its final response.
Mr F would particularly like to know when HSBC decided to close the scheme but  this
isnt material as it doesnt affect the outcome of his complaint when I have found,  for
all the reasons I have set out above, that HSBC didnt make any error or 
treat Mr F
unfairly or unreasonably when it closed his account.
I hope that setting things out  as I've done helps explain how I've reached my conclusions  
and even though this isnt the outcome  Mr F hoped for,  he will at least feel that his complaint 
has been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final  decision
My final decision is that I  dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or  
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman