DRN-2641268
The complaint
Mrs D complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) increased the interest rate on her credit
card. Mrs D also complains that Aqua negatively impacted her credit file by recording a Q
marker when she complained.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my view on how to resolve it were set out in my 
provisional decision. In my provisional decision I said: 
 What happened
Mrs D had a credit card with Aqua and in 2019 it wrote to advise the interest rate would be
going up. Mrs D asked some questions about why her credit card rate was increasing and
complained. On receipt of Mrs Ds questions, Aqua recorded a Q marker on her credit file.
Aqua says the use of the Q marker is industry standard and used when a consumer asks
questions about their account or complains.
In September 2019 Mrs D took the decision to repay her credit card balance instead of
paying the new interest rate and asked for the account to be closed. Mrs D has told us that
around this time she and her husband were applying for a remortgage. But the lenders they
initially approached declined the application, citing Mrs Ds credit score. Mrs D got a copy of
her credit file and found the Q marker reported by Aqua. Mrs D was concerned that the Q
marker had reduced her credit score and caused her remortgage to be declined. On 3
November 2019 Mrs D has told us she checked her credit file again and found the Q marker
was gone.
Mrs D has advised that she was able to arrange a remortgage with a new lender once the Q
marker was removed from her credit file.
As she remained unhappy, Mrs D referred her complaint to this service. On receipt of our file
request, Aqua took the step of applying another Q marker to Mrs Ds credit file.
Mrs Ds remortgage completed in March 2020. Mrs D has requested that Aqua cover the
additional interest she paid towards personal loans that were consolidated to her new
mortgage. Mrs D has also asked for the difference in interest rates between her old and new
mortgage to be refunded. Mrs D has explained that she believes Aquas Q marker was the
reason her initial remortgage applications didnt go ahead.
An investigator reviewed Mrs Ds complaint but was satisfied Aqua had used the Q marker
correctly and didnt ask it to take any further action. Mrs D asked to appeal.
I asked Aqua for evidence from its policy manual or guidance obtained from the credit
reference agencies to show its use of the Q marker was correct. Aqua responded to
say it didnt have written guidance but the way it reports complaints and queries is a
longstanding practice.
I also asked Mrs D to provide a copy of her and her husbands credit files along with
anything she may have had that specifically showed why the remortgage applications had
been initially declined. Mrs D sent in the credit reports and confirmed that she was advised
applications couldnt proceed because of her credit score.
I went on to issue a provisional decision, upholding Mrs Ds complaint in part. I said I felt the
use of the Q marker was unfair and didnt find it had been applied in line with industry
guidelines. But, I didnt find that Mrs Ds remortgage application was delayed or declined on
the basis of the way the Q marker had been applied by Aqua.
In the provisional decision, I also said Aqua should have closed Mrs Ds credit card in 2019,
when she repaid the outstanding balance. To resolve the complaint, I said that Aqua should
amend Mrs Ds credit file to remove any Q markers reported. I also said Aqua should amend
Mrs Ds credit file to reflect a closure date. Finally, I said Aqua should pay Mrs D £400 in
respect of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Aqua responded to my provisional decision and highlighted guidance from one of the main
credit reference agencies on the use of credit file markers. The guidance included
circumstances where Q markers can be applied where a consumer raises a query or dispute
about their account.
Aqua also said its normal process means it can take 90 days to close a credit card and that,
before that time limit had passed, it paid £25 compensation onto Mrs Ds account. As there
was an active credit balance on the credit card, Aqua says it couldnt close the account in
line with Mrs Ds request in September 2019. Aqua says it only closed the account around
90 days after Mrs D told it she didnt want the £25 compensation.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by thanking both parties for their patience whilst this case has been with us.
In my provisional decision, I said I would consider new information provided by either party
before making my final decision.
Aqua responded and pointed to guidance from one of the major credit reference agencies
regarding the use of Q markers and has also given us further information about the process
it follows when closing a credit card. And the points Aqua has made have impacted how I
think Mrs Ds complaint should be resolved. As a result, Ive taken the step of issuing
another provisional decision which gives both parties a chance to respond.
Aquas response included close reference to guidance relating to the use of a Q marker on a
credit file to reflect a query. The guidance says Where a query exists on an account, for
example a mechanise complaint the record should be flagged with the letter Q In my
provisional decision I said Aqua hadnt shown its actions were in line with the guidance set
out by the credit reference agencies. But, having considered Aquas response and the
associated guidance, I agree that, in this case, it could report a Q marker on Mrs Ds credit
file after she raised queries about the increased interest rate on her credit card.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs D, but having reconsidered Aquas actions and the guidance, I
havent found it treated her unfairly when it applied the Q marker after she raised a dispute
about the interest rate.
The guidance goes on to say A record marked as a query is still expected to receivemonthly updates until the point at which it is marked as settled of defaulted. So Ive
considered whether Aquas use of the Q marker in this case is fair and in line with this
approach.
In my provisional decision, I said Aqua should have closed Mrs Ds credit card as she
requested after repaying the outstanding balance in 2019. I said Aquas records showed Mrs
D had specifically asked it to close her account once the balance was cleared but that it
hadnt taken that step.
In response to my provisional decision, Aqua said Mrs D has repaid the outstanding balance
on 14 September 2019 and asked for her account to be closed. But Aqua says its internal
processes mean it can take up to 90 days for a credit card to be closed. And, before 90 days
had elapsed, it upheld Mrs Ds complaint and paid £25 onto her credit card on 31 October
2019. Aqua says it sent Mrs D its final response to her complaint on 9 November 2019 and
asked for bank details to arrange settlement. But it wasnt until 17 April 2020 that Mrs D
advised she didnt want the £25 compensation. Aqua says the account was closed and
marked as settled on 29 July 2020, around 90 days later.
Whilst I understand Aqua is free to decide its own processes concerning how it operates and
how accounts are closed, I also have to take into account whether, in the circumstances of
Mrs Ds complaint, it has acted fairly. And I still dont think Aquas approach to closing Mrs
Ds credit card was fair.
Aquas credit card terms say You may end this agreement by giving us notice. This will take
effect when the notice is received by us. The terms make no mention of an additional 90
days required to process the account closure. The terms specifically say that the account
closure will take effect when Aqua receives notification from the card holder. In Mrs Ds
case, Aqua has recorded that Mrs D repaid her outstanding balance and asked it to close
her account on 14 September 2019.
In addition, Aqua says the account remained open because it subsequently credited it with
£25 compensation. Whilst I can see Aquas final response dated 9 November 2019 asked
Mrs D for details of where to pay the compensation, at the end of the letter it made reference
to an email that was sent after closing the account. I dont think Aquas final response is
clear. If Aqua intended to leave Mrs Ds account open until she confirmed whether she
accepted the £25 settlement, I think it wouldve been fair for it to have made that clear in its
final response.
Im satisfied Aqua was aware that Mrs D had asked for her account to be closed when it
responded to her complaint. So, I think it shouldve considered whether paying
compensation directly to the account was the right approach as that acted as a barrier to
closing it, in line with Mrs Ds instructions.
Ive considered everything Mrs D and Aqua have sent us. Whilst I have changed my view
about whether the use of the Q marker was reasonable, I still think the reported closure date
isnt a fair reflection of Mrs Ds instructions. I understand Aqua has its own processes, but for
the reasons Ive given above, I think Mrs D has been unfairly impacted because the account
remained open and active on her credit file until July 2020.
Given Mrs D took the necessary steps to repay and close her credit card, in line with the
account terms, in September 2019, I think the fairest approach is for the information Aqua
reports to reflect that.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied Mrs D has suffered distress and inconvenience
as a result of the way Aqua has reported her account. So, I still think its fair for Aqua torecognise the trouble and upset caused. As a result, I intend to tell Aqua to pay Mrs D £200
which, in my view, fairly reflects the impact of the delay in following her instruction to close
the account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I asked both parties to respond with any new information or 
comments they wanted me to consider. Mrs D responded and confirmed she was willing to 
accept the provisional decision. Aqua responded to say it didnt accept. 
Aquas response provided similar information to that contained in its previous submissions. 
Aqua said it had acted in line with its process by leaving the account open and reporting on 
Mrs Ds credit file. Aqua accepted its final response was unclear but said it had sent Mrs D 
statements that showed the account remained open. 
Ive considered the comments made by Aqua. As Ive previously said, if Aquas decision to 
uphold Mrs Ds complaint meant it was going to pay compensation to her credit card account 
and disregard her request to close it, Id have expected that to be made very clear in its final 
response. The fact Mrs Ds credit card would remain open because £25 compensation was 
paid was not made clear. 
I understand Aqua says it continued to provide statements but Mrs D had given clear 
instructions to close her account and Im not persuaded its fair to expect her to have 
highlighted the ongoing issue to Aqua. 
Ive considered Aquas response to my provisional decision but havent been persuaded to 
change my view. In Mrs Ds case, Im satisfied that the way Aqua handled the account 
closure request impacted her unfairly and meant the credit card remained open and reported 
for longer than it should have. Having considered everything Aqua and Mrs D have sent, I 
still think this complaint should be upheld, for largely the same reasons. 
I havent been persuaded to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. As 
a result, Im going to proceed and uphold Mrs Ds complaint.  
Putting things right
To resolve Mrs Ds complaint, I direct Aqua to settle as follows: 
- Amend Mrs Ds credit file to show she closed the credit card in September 2019
- On resolution of this complaint, remove Q markers reported
- Pay Mrs D £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to settle 
as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 Marco Manente
Ombudsman