DRN-3181117
The complaint
Mrs Ms representative complains on her behalf that Saga Services Ltd (Saga) have unfairly 
increased the annual cost of her motor insurance over the past several years.
References to Mrs M, or her representative, will include the other.
What happened
Mrs M has held a motor insurance policy through Saga for a number of years. When Mrs Ms 
representative was looking though her policy premiums they said that since 2016 the 
increase in her insurance premiums had seemed excessive to them. 
In late 2015 Mrs M was hit by another car whilst out shopping. Mrs M had been advised that 
the other drivers insurance company had eventually paid for this claim and it was recorded 
on her records as a no-fault claim.
 
Mrs Ms representative said they dont feel the increases to her insurance premiums are in 
line with a customer who hasnt caused an accident in over 50 years of driving. They said 
they feel the premiums mirrored the amount Saga paid to repair Mrs Ms car after the non-
fault claim that was settled in 2016. 
Mrs Ms representative would like her to be refunded for the overpayments they think she 
has been charged by Saga and feels this is around £2,000.
Saga looked into this complaint and found that between the years of 2017 to 2019 it had 
calculated her premiums incorrectly. This was due to an internal admin error for a mistaken 
identity claim. Saga said it has rectified this error by correcting her records and refunding a 
total of £343.79.
This amount was made up of £294.09 for the premiums paid for cover between 1 November 
2017 and 31 October 2019 and £49.70 for the premium starting 1 November 2019. Mrs Ms 
representative said they feel this isnt enough.
As Mrs Ms representative was not happy with Saga, they brought the complaint to our 
service.
 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think that Saga treated Mrs M unfairly in 
its refund of her premiums and so did not uphold the complaint. 
As Mrs Ms representative is unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought 
to me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to understand that were not the industry regulator. That means I dont have 
the power to tell an insurer or broker how much it can charge for its policies. Neither is it my 
role to tell an insurer what factors it should take into account when assessing risk.
When calculating what premium to charge individual policyholders, Saga will take numerous 
different factors into account  these are likely to include, but are not limited to, the 
policyholders postcode, the age of the drivers, the number of fault claims and non-fault 
claims etc. And different insurers assess risk differently. What is high risk to one may not be 
to another. Individual insurers may also use different data when assessing the risk posed. 
But thats not unusual or unfair. 
We cannot tell Saga (or any insurer) that it should use, or discount, specific data. Thats 
because the risk is Sagas to take on so it will decide how to assess it and will price the 
policies it offers accordingly. Prices can go up or down, depending on what it thinks the risks 
are that year for all of its customers.
Providing they treat people fairly, insurers and brokers are entitled to charge what they feel 
they need to in order to cover a risk. So although I cannot tell Saga how much to charge Mrs 
M, I can look at whether it treated her fairly throughout the time she held her car insurance 
with it.
In this case I can see that Mrs Ms premium has increased each year from 1 November 
2016. I cannot give details of any increase or decrease prior to this time as I have not seen 
this information, but I do understand she held a policy prior to this time. 
 
The representative said that massive premiums coincide with damage caused to Mrs Ms 
car by a third party in 2015. 
On review of the changes in Mrs Ms policy prices year on year I saw the largest increase in 
policy price was not seen in the year following the non-fault accident but was at the renewal 
in November 2017 and again in November 2018. Saga have since accepted that in these 
two years it made an internal administrative error and so made a refund of £294.09 in 
relation to this error in price. I cannot see that the increases coincided with the non-fault 
accident and Mrs Ms representative claims. Saga made a further refund of £49.70 on the 
policy starting 1 November 2019.
Mrs Ms representative said to our investigator that these refunds had not been fully repaid 
by Saga. I have looked at this and can see that a refund of £294.09 was made in December 
2019 and the quarterly payments for her policy starting November 2019 were reduced by 
£49.70 in total.  
The fact that Mrs Ms premium has risen more steeply in some years and not others, and 
also decreased in one of the years (2019), doesnt mean that Saga has calculated it unfairly 
due to the non-fault accident in 2015.
Saga have said that across the industry there has been in increase in motor insurance fraud 
and claim costs have risen which in turn has impacted its premiums.
I have also looked at evidence of the annual renewal paperwork that was produced and sent 
to Mrs M each year. I saw that there was no additional cover added or any other changes 
made so I think it is fair to accept that Saga reviewed her renewal information in the same 
way as it would with other customers, and from what Ive seen, there seems to be legitimate 
risk related reasons for the premium increasing/decreasing over the years.I do not believe Saga have been unfair in its pricing and I dont think it has treated Mrs M any 
differently to its other customers. Therefore, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint that she has 
been treated unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman