DRN-1619717
complaint
Mr M complains that AIB Group (UK) plc (AIB), trading as First Trust Bank, mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr M took out a loan with AIB in June 2000. At the same time he bought a PPI policy which 
would have covered the repayments on his loan for up to 24 months if he couldnt work due 
to an accident, sickness or unemployment. It also provided life cover for the balance.
Mr M says that he was told it was a condition of the loan to take the PPI. He says he didnt 
need it.
The adjudicator thought that Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr M disagrees, so his 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Given the length of time since the sale its unsurprising that neither party has kept all the 
original documents from the sale. AIB has been able to provide sample copies of the forms 
that were in use at the time Mr M took out his loan and the PPI. Mr M objects to these being 
used to assess what happened. But as Mr M hasnt been able to provide any evidence to the 
contrary I dont think its unreasonable to take these documents into account. Im satisfied 
that these sample documents provide a good understanding of the documents Mr M would 
have seen and signed. I havent seen anything to suggest AIB departed from its usual 
processes in Mr Ms case.
Looking at these documents I can see that the loan application form had a separate section 
for PPI. It made it clear that the cover was optional and it would not have been added 
without Mr M making an active selection of it. 
On the information I have available to me Im satisfied Mr M bought the PPI knowing he had 
a choice about it
AIB didnt make a personal recommendation to Mr M about the PPI so it didnt need to take 
reasonable steps to make sure it was suitable for him. But it did need to make sure it gave 
him all the information he needed to make her own decision. Its possible AIB didnt do this 
well enough. For example, I dont think its likely AIB explained to Mr M that the policy 
wouldnt have paid out a proportionate refund if Mr M settled the loan early (which he did). 
But I havent seen anything to suggest that was something Mr M was planning to do when he took out the policy, so I dont think it would have prevented him from buying the policy if 
hed understood this. 
Looking at the rest of Mr Ms circumstances I dont think more information wouldve changed 
his mind about buying it. I think its likely Mr M understood the policy would pay a benefit if 
he wasnt able to work as this is how it is described in the paperwork he likely would have 
completed. And as I think Mr M chose to take out the PPI, it seems he was interested in this 
type of cover. 
It doesnt look like Mr M was affected by any of the terms which mightve made it more 
difficult for him to make a successful claim, such as those related to existing medical 
conditions or self-employment  so it wouldve been useful for him if something went wrong. 
I havent seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mr M.
Mr M says he was entitled to some sick pay. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to 
any sick pay and potentially for considerably longer. Mr M says he had some savings he 
could have used for the repayments, but he hasnt told us how much or provided any 
evidence of them. In any case, the policy would have still paid out in addition to this, leaving 
Mr Ms savings for other uninsured expenses. So I think the policy offered Mr M a useful 
benefit.
So, on balance, I dont think Mr M lost out as a result of anything AIB did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint, so it follows that AIB Group (UK) plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman