DRN-4358784
The complaint
Mr D complains that Tesco Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank sent him letters charging an 
additional premium because they had incorrectly recorded a claim on his insurance record 
as closed and fault when it was open.  
  
What happened
Mr D held a motor insurance policy with Tesco Bank.
In September 2022 Mr D was in an incident in which he said a third party car was 
responsible. 
Mr D didnt initially report it to Tesco Bank as he didnt intend to make a claim. However, he 
was contacted by Tesco on 30 September because they had received a claim from the third 
party insurer. Mr D denied liability. 
Tesco Bank told him to get his car repaired but Mr D declined unless the third party accepted 
responsibility first. 
Mr Ds policy renewed at the end of September 2022, and then on 13 October he received a 
letter from Tesco Bank advising that he owed them £158.26 for additional premium  which 
was due because of the open claim which occurred shortly prior to renewal. 
Mr D rang Tesco Bank to challenge this and made a complaint as he didnt accept he should 
pay any additional premium as he didnt accept liability for the accident. 
Mr D then received further reminders on 19 and 26 October 2023 about the premium and he 
was threatened with the policy being cancelled if he didnt make payment . 
Following his complaint, Tesco Bank said that the additional premium was correctly due 
because the claim was actually still open and would be due until liability was admitted by the 
third party insurer.  However, they agreed to waive the additional premium of £158.26 to 
compensate Mr D as the claim should have still been recorded as open.
In March 2023 Tesco Bank rang Mr D to advise him that the third party had admitted liability 
in early February and asked him to withdraw his complaint. Mr D refused. 
Mr D was unhappy and so he brought his complaint to us. 
After initially upholding this complaint, Tesco Bank provided further information and our 
investigator thought that Tesco Bank had acted fairly, and that their offer of compensation 
was reasonable. 
Mr D disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case came to me to review. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
What I have to decide is whether Tesco Bank have acted fairly and reasonably when dealing 
with Mr D and if they have made an error, what the impact of that error was. 
Having thought about this, Im upholding part of Mr Ds complaint and I will explain why.
The increase in premiums
Although the claim was for an accident on 17 September, it wasnt logged on Mr Ds record 
until after the new policy period had started, which was on 5 October. So the renewal 
premium that Mr D had been charged was lower than it should have been if an open claim 
had been on his record at the right time. 
Mr D has said that the additional premium shouldnt have been due as he wasnt liable for 
the accident. However, it is standard industry practice for a claim to be recorded as open 
until liability is resolved, and during that time it will affect premiums. So Im satisfied that 
Tesco Bank were entitled to ask for an additional premium once they had corrected their 
records to show that a claim was in progress. 
However, things then became a little confused, because despite being entitled to charge the 
additional premium, when Tesco Bank recorded the claim, they logged it as a closed fault 
claim rather than an open claim. This was an error as claims should remain open until 
liability has been determined, and any costs recovered from the third party. 
Tesco Bank then sent three letters to Mr D asking for the additional premium and threatening 
him with cancelling his policy if he didnt pay the additional premium. Mr D contacted Tesco 
Bank to query this and then raised a complaint. 
Following the second letter about the additional premium, in a call to Tesco Bank on 27 
October 2022, an advisor did explain to Mr D that his complaint was logged and that his 
policy wasnt going to be cancelled. He also explained that Tesco had disputed liability with 
the third party and that the claim would have to be recorded as open until the claim is settled 
and if the third party admitted fault the fault claim would then be removed and the additional 
premium would be reimbursed. So after that I think Mr D should have been reassured that 
his policy wasnt in jeopardy. 
However, the incorrect recording and repeated letters about the premium cancellation 
caused Mr D some distress and frustration, and in their complaint response, Tesco Bank 
accepted that initially it wasnt properly explained to him why an additional premium was 
being charged, and so they agreed to waive the additional premium as compensation. 
And so Ive thought about whether this is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress 
caused for the failure to communicate clearly. 
Tesco Bank have told us that although the claim was incorrectly recorded on their system as 
closed and fault, Tesco underwriting, who calculate the premium, had it correctly recorded 
as open, and so the additional premium charged was the correct amount and was due. So 
Im satisfied that the letters sent asking for the premium were correctly sent.
The distress caused was because of Tesco Banks communication about the recording of 
the claim, and the failure to explain the process properly from the outset, as well as the 
incorrectly closed claim. 
The investigators view is that waiving the additional premium is sufficient compensation. 
However, as the third party has now admitted liability, and this additional premium would 
have had to be refunded to Mr D anyway, I dont think it would be fair to say this was 
compensation, and so I propose to award £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the delay in Tesco explaining the reason for the additional premium and the process 
properly. I appreciate that the confusion was distressing, but it was short term, with a proper explanation being given on 27 October, and so I consider that £100 is sufficient 
compensation for this.  
In the light of these findings, I therefore intended to uphold Mr Ds complaint, and I invited 
the parties to comment.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Tesco and Mr D have responded.
 
Mr D has accepted my decision but Tesco disagree. They say that they explained the 
position on 27 October and so there was no confusion. They also say that they consider that 
waiving the additional premium at the time was sufficient compensation. I have agreed that 
the information was clear from 27 October, and that is in my provisional decision. However, 
there was a period of uncertainty before this and Tesco missed earlier opportunities to make 
the position clear to Mr D, and it is for this distress and inconvenience that I consider it fair 
and reasonable to make award. I have already explained why I dont consider the waiving of 
the premium is compensation. 
In light of the above, Im making my final decision in line with my provisional findings.  
Putting things right
To put things right I think that Tesco Bank should pay Mr D £100. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Ds complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC trading as Tesco Bank to put things right as outlined above.   
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman