DRN-4154799
The complaint
H complains about a credit card dispute it raised with New Wave Capital Limited trading as 
Capital on Tap.
 
What happened
On 21 August 2021 H made a credit card payment of £3,375 to a merchant Ill call N to pay 
for an ecommerce project. The client agreement shows the payment was broken down with 
£1,875 in upfront costs covering software licencing, training and implementation and 
security. The remaining £1,500 element of the payment was made to cover design and 
branding services. 
The client agreement also said monthly fees of £189 a month for ongoing support would 
apply. But this fee was reduced by 50% while the website was being developed. 
In May 2022 the website went live but Mr R has explained that it didnt meet the 
requirements agreed and asked N to refund all monies paid to date and cancel the contract. 
Mr R also contacted Capital on Tap and asked to raise a card dispute to reclaim the funds 
paid to N since August 2021. Mr R filled out a dispute form and it was submitted to Capital 
on Tap. 
In the weeks that followed Capital on Tap asked Mr R to supply further information in support 
of Hs chargeback claim. On 5 August 2022 Capital on Tap emailed Mr R to explain it 
wouldnt process a chargeback claim for the initial £3,385 payment H made as it was raised 
outside the 120-day time limit set by VISA. Further information was requested in relation to 
the ongoing payments made to N. Ultimately Capital on Tap didnt think it had reasonable 
evidence or grounds to raise a chargeback claim for the regular payments without further 
information being supplied by H and no refunds were approved. 
On Hs behalf, Mr R complained and Capital on Tap issued a final response. Capital on Tap 
said information it had requested in support of Hs chargeback claim hadnt been supplied. 
Capital on Tap said Mr R could submit further information in respect of the monthly charges 
that had been taken. 
Mr R referred Hs complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They looked 
at the client agreement H had entered into with N and supporting information but didnt think 
Capital on Tap had acted unfairly by declining to take the chargeback claim forward. They 
were satisfied that H hadnt lost out as a result of the way Capital on Tap had dealt with its 
chargeback claim. 
On Hs behalf, Mr R asked to appeal and said the product supplied by N wasnt fit for 
purpose. Mr R also said that as the customer, H wasnt liable for any costs of a product that 
doesnt work and that the client agreement, or contract, couldnt be taken in isolation. As Mr 
R asked to appeal Hs complaint, its been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
As Capital on Tap has said, it has to apply the VISA chargeback scheme rules when 
considering whether to raise a claim. One of the rules says a claim has to be raised within 
120 days of the payment or the date the goods or service were due to be supplied. Ive 
looked at the client agreement and can see that a total of £1,875 were charged on 21 August 
2021 by way of upfront fees for items like licensing and training. As these fees were charged 
on an upfront basis, Im satisfied H had 120 days to raise a chargeback claim for this 
element of the payment made. As the claim wasnt raised in that timeframe, Im satisfied 
Capital on Tap reasonably declined to raise a claim on Hs behalf. 
The remaining £1,500 H paid on 21 August 2021 was for the design and build of the website. 
The website went live in May 2022, so I agree with the investigators view that there was 
time for Capital on Tap to raise this part of Hs chargeback claim within the scheme time 
limits. But I also agree that the information supplied to Capital on Tap by H wouldve been 
unlikely to have resulted in a successful chargeback claim for this part of the fee paid. I say 
this because whilst Ive seen the email Mr R sent N in May 2022 advising he wanted to 
cancel the service provided and obtain a full refund of all monies paid, there was a lack of 
supplementary evidence to show the website wasnt operating properly. 
I further note that the VISA chargeback scheme rules direct a customer to try and resolve 
issues with a merchant before raising a claim. But the email Mr R sent to N in May 2022 
didnt offer any grounds to resolve the issues they raised, it requested immediate 
cancellation of the contract and a full refund. The information on file doesnt show attempts 
to resolve the situation with the merchant before H withdrew from the agreement which is a 
step the chargeback scheme rules direct customers to take. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but I havent been persuaded that the way Capital on Tap 
handled the chargeback claim for the initial payment made on 21 August 2021 was 
unreasonable. 
The 120-day chargeback time limit applies to the monthly payments H made to N. Ive 
looked at the client agreement and can see the £189 monthly fee was charged for ongoing 
service and support, reduced by 50% while the website was in development. As these were 
recuring fees for ongoing services Im satisfied Capital on Tap could only consider 
chargebacks for payments taken within 120 days of the date Mr R raised the dispute. Capital on Tap didnt decline to raise chargeback claims for the remaining monthly payments 
made but asked Mr R to submit further evidence. I can see the final response issued by 
Capital on Tap confirmed it was willing to consider further evidence from H but the 
information required wasnt provided. In my view, Capital on Taps decision not to take Hs 
chargeback claim forward without further supporting evidence was reasonable. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr R but as Im satisfied Capital on Tap dealt with Hs dispute 
fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman