DRN-3941486
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C are unhappy with Zurich Assurance Limiteds decision to reduce the level of 
benefit paid when they made a claim. 
Although this complaint was brought by both consumers, Ill refer to all submissions as being 
made by Mr C as this complaint concerns his disclosures at the time they took the policy. 
What happened
Mr C arranged for life and critical illness cover with Zurich in November 2020. As part of the 
application process, he was asked questions about his previous medical history. Sadly, Mr C 
needed to claim on his policy in July 2021 following a heart attack. Zurich investigated Mr 
Cs claim and discovered hed not told it about his previous cholesterol problems. Zurich 
decided to pay a proportionate settlement and reduced the overall life cover amount, saying 
this is the action it wouldve taken had it known about the raised cholesterol at the time the 
policy was taken out. It said Mr C made a careless misrepresentation under CIDRA 
(Consumer Insurance Disclosure Representations Act).
Our investigator disagreed with Zurich saying the questions asked at the time of application 
were unclear. She said the question about cholesterol could be interpreted in such a way 
that its simply augmented towards finding out whether a consumer has ever taken 
medication, or received treatment for cholesterol, rather than having been diagnosed with 
the condition. She said on that basis, Zurich should pay the claim in full, reinstate the 
previous level of benefit and pay £300 compensation for the overall distress and 
inconvenience. 
Zurich disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsman to review the case. In summary, it 
said the question asked was clear and that Mr C shouldve reasonably shared his previous 
cholesterol problem. And so, its now for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it and for the same reasons already explained by our 
investigator. Im satisfied the question asked is unclear because its asking too much 
information within a relatively short sentence. I also dont consider Mr Cs medical records as 
evidence of him being treated for cholesterol problems and so I agree with our investigators 
recommendations. Ill explain why. 
To be clear, the question asked by Zurich was;
In the last 5 years, unless you have already told us earlier in this application, have you had, 
or been advised to take any medication or have any treatment for: raised blood pressure or 
raised cholesterol?
Mr Cs medical records show that he visited the GP for a problem with an injury to his ankle 
during the five-year catchment, in 2017. The issue he experienced was with delayed healing 
of his ankle. The GP took a blood sample as the wound wasnt healing and a comment was 
made that Mr C had slightly raised cholesterol  for which he was advised to monitor his diet. 
This is the occasion Zurich has referred to where Mr C should have disclosed his cholesterol 
issues in response to the above question. But Im not persuaded by that because I dont 
consider it reasonable that Zurich should expect him to disclose this information based on 
the question it asked. 
I should also say that Mr C was unable to recall this instance because it was some time ago 
and wasnt the primary reason for his visit to the GP, it was for something else entirely. I also 
wouldnt have considered Mr C as having received treatment given the wider circumstances 
Ive just explained. Im satisfied this was more of an off-the-cuff remark and this is further 
supported by no treatment having taken place. In any event, I still dont consider the 
question asked by Zurich, to be clear, because I dont think the question, as it currently 
stands, would prompt Mr C to share this information.  
The question asks whether in the last five years, have you had, or been advised to take any 
medication or have any treatment for raised cholesterol. Ive understood that question to be 
aimed at gathering details about whether a consumer has had treatment or been advised to 
take medicine to treat the raised cholesterol. I understand Zurich disagrees with that, and 
theres been some discussion around where the commas are situated and where emphasis 
lays on whether someone has had raised cholesterol. But Im not persuaded by these 
arguments because I think Zurich could ask the questions differently to gather the 
information it wanted. 
I think the question should have been separated making it clearer and this would help 
ensure consumers are able to give a clear answer about a) whether theyve had raised 
cholesterol and b) whether theyve received any treatment or medication for it. 
Because the question was unclear, Zurich was unable to capture the relevant information it 
needed. But I dont consider that to be Mr Cs fault and so I think the action Zurich has taken 
is unfair. Zurich also has obligations under CIDRA and it must ask clear and specific 
questions. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think it has and so it must now implement 
the recommendations made by our investigator. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and Zurich Assurance Limited must now reinstate the original 
cover provided for the policies involved in this matter and pay full benefit accordingly on the 
critical illness claim. In addition, Zurich must pay 8% simple interest on that amount, from the 
date it declined the claim until the date of settlement. It must also pay £300 compensation for 
the overall distress and inconvenience it caused Mrs C and Mr C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman