DRN-2619722
The complaint
Mr G complains about Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Limited (Lloyds Bank Insurance). 
His complaint is about Lloyds Bank Insurance incorrectly using information provided by him 
through a comparison website when he took out a home insurance policy, which when 
corrected Mr G says resulted in him having to pay a higher premium. 
What happened
Mr G took out his home insurance policy at the start of May 2020, to take effect later that 
month. He took out his policy with Lloyds Bank Insurance after initially using a comparison 
website to provide details about his circumstances, including his claims history. He maintains 
that in answer to a question about his claims history within the previous five years, he 
provided details of two claims that he made in 2016, one for buildings and one for contents. 
Mr G was then taken to the Lloyds Bank Insurance website where he thought the information 
he had entered on the comparison website had been carried across. On this understanding 
he took out his policy at a quoted premium of £271.
When Mr G subsequently received his policy documents he noticed that the policy statement 
set out (correctly) that he had made no claims in the previous three years. But it also stated 
that he had nine years without a claim, which wasnt correct. Mr G called Lloyds Bank 
Insurance to correct the information, but when he did so his premium increased to 
approximately £400. Unhappy at this increase, Mr G cancelled the policy. Mr G then went 
back to the comparison website to take out a new policy. But he was only able to do so at a 
cost of £345, with higher policy excess figures than those in his original policy.
Mr G was unhappy at having to pay a higher premium and complained to Lloyds Bank 
Insurance in May 2020. Lloyds Bank Insurance considered his complaint but did not uphold 
it. In their Final Response Letter of June 2020 Lloyds Bank Insurance said that they relied on 
information obtained through the comparison website, and the information was that Mr G 
was nine years claim free on his home insurance. Lloyds Bank Insurance also stated that 
when Mr G decided to take out the policy, he was directed to Lloyds Bank Insurance website 
and asked to confirm the information provided. Lloyds Bank Insurance then used that 
information to calculate the premium of £271 and issue the policy documents.
 
Unhappy at the outcome of his complaint to Lloyds Bank Insurance, Mr G complained to this 
service in July 2020. He asked that he be reimbursed for the difference in the premium he 
paid (£345) and the premium quoted when he took out his original policy (£271). He also 
asked that the policy excess figures in his new policy should be reduced to those in his 
original policy.
Mr G was also unhappy that the comparison website had asked him for details of his No 
Claims Discount (NCD) as his understanding was that the concept of NCD was relevant to 
car insurance and not home insurance. Mr G was also unhappy that he was unable to speak 
to anyone from Lloyds Bank Insurance during their handling of his complaint.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Gs complaint in December 2020, concluding that Lloyds 
Bank Insurance had not acted unfairly The investigator noted that the responsibility of 
ensuring that information and answers provided are accurate falls on the consumer. The 
investigator also noted that Mr G was asked by Lloyds Bank Insurance to confirm his details 
and the information provided on the Lloyds Bank Insurance website. The investigator 
concluded that the questions on the website were clear and that Lloyds Bank Insurance 
reliance on them was reasonable. The investigator also concluded that in revising the 
premium following Mr G clarifying the information about his claims history after receiving his 
policy documents, Lloyds Bank Insurance acted fairly.
Mr G did not accept the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On Mr Gs principal element of complaint, that he provided accurate information to Lloyds 
Bank Insurance through the comparison website and had been disadvantaged when he 
clarified the information on his claims history, Ive looked at the evidence. Its clear that the 
responsibility for checking the information provided through the comparison website lies with 
Mr G as the person seeking to take out a policy. I think its reasonable for Mr G to be asked 
to confirm directly the information provided to Lloyds Bank Insurance on their website, 
notwithstanding that he would have initially provided the information and answers to 
questions asked through the comparison website.
 
This isnt just because the contract of insurance would be between Mr G and Lloyds Bank 
Insurance (not between Mr G and the comparison website). But also because separate 
confirmation provides a means of detecting any errors or omissions that might have occurred 
when the information and answers were provided to the comparison website in the first 
instance. It also enables detection of any errors or omissions that may have occurred when 
the information was passed from the comparison website to Lloyds Bank Insurance. Ive 
seen no evidence that this second confirmation didnt take place. And that the information 
wasnt then used to generate the details of the policy subsequently sent to Mr G to check, 
and which led to his contacting Lloyds Bank Insurance to correct the information on his 
claims history.
Ive also concluded that it was reasonable for Lloyds Bank Insurance to revise Mr Gs policy 
to reflect the correct information on his claims history. This is one of the standard pieces of 
information that insurers use to determine the level of risk, and hence the premium for the 
policy and any other terms and conditions (such as policy excesses).
Mr G also raised a concern that by placing the Lloyds Bank Insurance quotation first on the 
list of results from the comparison website, this constituted a misrepresentation and an 
inducement to Mr G to deal with them. But any comparison website would produce a list of 
results based on the information and answers input by the consumer. Its then for the 
consumer to consider those results and decide which  if any  to follow up. Thats not 
unreasonable, and as Ive noted above the separate process by which Mr G was asked to 
confirm the information and answers provided on the Lloyds Bank Insurance website would 
have enabled him to make an informed choice about which policy to take out.
 
Ive also noted that the policy documents subsequently sent to Mr G clearly state that the 
consumer should: read all the important information included in this pack and check it 
carefully and that If you have any queries or changes, call. The document also clearly 
states that consumers should read each item listed below to check that we hold the correct 
information and that the policy is still right for you.Mr G was also unhappy that the comparison website had asked him for details of his NCD 
as his understanding was that the concept of NCD was relevant to car insurance and not 
home insurance. As Mr Gs complaint to this service was against Lloyds Bank Insurance, 
Ive not considered the role of the comparison website here. But I have looked at the 
questions and information that Mr G was asked to check and confirm by Lloyds Bank 
Insurance. From the information provided by Lloyds Bank Insurance these questions 
included (with the information provided in brackets):
In the last 3 years, how many paid (buildings/contents) insurance claims have you or 
anyone currently living with you had? (0)
Number of complete years, without a break, that you or anyone living with you has held 
(buildings/contents) insurance without having a claim paid? (9)
I dont think these questions are ambiguous or otherwise unclear, and the fact that Mr G 
noticed that the answers to the second question were incorrect and contacted Lloyds Bank 
Insurance shows to me that they were clear.
Mr G was also unhappy that he was unable to speak to anyone from Lloyds Bank Insurance 
during their handling of his complaint. Complaint handling lies outside the remit of this 
service, so Ive not considered this point any further.
Based on the above considerations, Ive concluded that Lloyds Bank Insurance have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr G, and I dont consider that they need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman