DRN-4011186
The complaint
Mr W complains Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk (Valour) provided him with a 
loan without carrying out appropriate affordability checks. 
Mr W also says he was offered a loan over a longer term than he had anticipated.  
What happened
Mr W took one loan from Valour for £300 on 27 March 2021. Mr W was due to make 
17 repayments  every other week of £34.21. Valour says the loan has been settled. 
Valour considered Mr Ws complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide the loan based on the checks it carried out, which included asking Mr W about his 
income and expenditure and carrying out a credit check. The results of these checks showed 
Valour that Mr W could afford the loan repayments. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr W referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was then considered by an adjudicator. She concluded Valour made a 
reasonable decision to provide the loan because it had carried out a proportionate check 
which showed the repayments to be affordable. She also didnt think Valour needed to have 
verified the information Mr W had provided. 
Mr W disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached. In response he said:
I strongly disagree with your conclusion and I am asking for it to be looked at again 
savvy did not properly check my income and outgoings and offered me a loan on the 
basis of having 300 left after bills for a month without taking into account food electric 
and normal daily activities I would need money for 300 plus their payment was not 
affordable at all and they didnt check this properly
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Valour had to assess the lending to check if Mr W could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Valours checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ws income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Valour should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr W. 
These factors include:
Mr W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr W. As there was only one loan, the 
adjudicator didnt think this applied in Mr Ws case. 
Valour was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr W was able to repay his 
loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ws complaint.
Before this loan was approved, Valour asked Mr W for details of his income, which he 
declared to be £1,000 per month. Valour says it carried out an electronic verification check of 
this amount  and the results confirmed that Mr W had received at least this amount, each 
month for the last six months. 
As part of his application, Mr W provided Valour with details of his living costs, this was then 
discussed with Mr W on a telephone call with an agent as well as the information that Valour 
gathered from a credit search it carried out. As a result of these checks, Valour believed 
Mr Ws monthly expenditure came to £637.60. Again, as it was the first loan Valour was 
entitled to rely on the information Mr W had provided. 
As part of the expenditure, Mr W declared that he didnt have any rent or mortgage costs. 
Ordinarily, this ought to not have been accepted, especially if there was information to 
suggest that Mr W had for example council tax payments. But in this case, Mr W declared he 
lived at home with parents and didnt contribute towards any of the bills  and so its not 
unreasonable for Valour to have relied on these costs.  
Valour therefore reasonably believed Mr W had £362.24 per month of disposable income to 
be able to afford the monthly repayment of around £69. The loan looked affordable. Mr W also spoke to a Valour agent (and a copy of the call has been provided which I have 
listened to) in which he confirmed details of his application such as his employer and 
payment date, his living situation and details of his income and expenditure. 
Before this loan was approved Valour also carried out a credit search and it has provided the 
results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although 
Valour carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone 
one to a specific standard. But what Valour couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then 
not react to the to the information it received. Valour was also entitled to rely on the results it 
was given as it didnt have anything to suggest the results were in anyway inaccurate. 
The credit check results gave an overview of all the active credit accounts that Mr W had. 
From the information it received, Valour knew Mr W had a hire purchase agreement costing 
£228 per month and an insurance product costing £136 per month. There were also four 
active credit cards  with balances totalling £1,169. All of these accounts were up to date 
with no late payment markers, or any arears markers. 
Valour calculated from Mr Ws credit file that he had around £266 per month of existing 
credit commitments and that does appear to have been about right  based on the 
information it received from the credit reference agency. 
And it is likely, this insurance product was for a motor car  in which case this appears to 
have been included in the motor costings that have been declared / calculated at £170 per 
month. 
Taking everything into account, there wasnt, in my view, anything solely from the credit file 
which wouldve led Valour to decline Mr Ws application or to have prompted it to carry out 
further checks. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Valour to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
he had provided. 
Given it was the first loan in a the lending relationship, it was reasonable for Valour to have 
relied on the information Mr W provided about his income and expenditure which showed 
sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments. So, Ive concluded the checks carried 
out were proportionate. There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Mr W was having 
financial difficulties or that the loan repayments would be unsustainable for him. 
I appreciate the loan term may have been longer than expected, but the term and payments 
were outlined in the credit agreement and the agent who discussed his application with Mr W 
also confirmed the same details. While the term may have been longer than Mr W expected, 
he did ultimately, agree to such a term and to the loan being funded. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Robert WalkerOmbudsman