DRN-3861943
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) rejected her claim under s 75 in respect of timeshare purchase. Mrs W is 
represented by a claims management business, which I shall refer to as S. The purchase 
was made by Mr and Mrs W, but it was funded by separate loans taken out by both. This 
complaint has been made by Mrs W and that made by the late Mr W is being dealt with 
separately, but I will refer to both on occasions in this decision.
What happened
In February 2009 Mrs W entered into a contract with a company, which Ill call R, for the 
purchase of membership rights. The purchase of points would entitle Mrs W to use holiday 
accommodation at a certain resort or resorts.
The cost of the points was funded partly by a loan provided to Mrs W by BPF and by another 
loan made to the late Mr W. Mrs Ws loan was settled in July 2009. Membership was 
relinquished in 2016.
In March 2021 Mrs W complained to BPF through S. S said that the timeshare arrangement 
had been mis-sold to its clients. Because the contract had been funded by BPF, it was liable 
for the mis-sale. The elements of the sale which formed the basis of the complaint included:
They felt pressurised to make the purchase and they feel the product was 
misrepresented.
They didnt understand what they had bought.
They were vulnerable due to their age and BPF did not carry out proper credit 
checks.
BPF rejected the complaint and said the claim was made out of time. One of our 
investigators considered what had happened but did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. The investigators reasoning was, in summary, that BPFs response to the claim was 
reasonable, given the length of time that had passed since the sale of the timeshare product.
S did not accept the investigators preliminary conclusions and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case. It reiterated its argument that the contract was null and void. It said BPF 
had a duty of care to its clients. It also referenced some material relating to R which it said 
showed the resort named in the contract hadnt sold any memberships.
Later it made a further submission in which it argued that the agreement was not compliant 
with the 1992 Timeshare Act. It said that R had failed to provide an accurate description of 
the accommodation and its location. It also said that the exact period the right could be 
exercised had not been identified.
It also said that a full withdrawal period had not been given and payment had been made in 
advance which ran contrary to the 1992 Act.
S said that because of these breaches Mrs W had three years from the date she became 
aware of these breaches in which to make acclaim and so it wasnt time barred.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Section 75 and section 56
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier.
Under section 56 of the same act, a party which makes statements in connection with a 
credit facility is, subject to certain conditions, deemed to do so as agent of the lender.
I have approached this case on the basis that the relationships of BPF and C did meet the 
conditions of sections 75 and 56, although I do not have full details of the link between the 
two companies. I have therefore considered the claims against the seller.
The complaint about the credit assessment
Part of Mrs Ws complaint is that BPF did not carry out a proper credit assessment before 
agreeing to the loan. It is not clear whether they had difficulty meeting the payments due, but 
I do note that he settled the loan in full a few months after it was agreed.
Our rules say that we cannot consider a complaint unless it is referred to us within six years 
of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which the 
complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint.
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in February 2009. Mrs W would have known fairly soon after that date if they 
were having difficulty making repayments. She certainly would have known within six years. 
It follows that this part of the complaint should have been referred to this service by no later 
than October 2016. Because it was not, we have no power to consider it.
Unfair terms in the loan agreement
S says that Mrs W have a claim against BPF as the terms were unfair. Such matters are 
covered by under Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations (UTCCR). A term which 
is unfair within the meaning of UTCCR is not enforceable. S says that the interest rate 
under the loan agreement was so high as to be unfair within that definition. Again, 
however, any such complaint would need to be brought within six years of the agreement, if 
this service is to have power to consider it  or, if later, withing three years of the date on 
which Mrs W knew or ought to have known he had cause for complaint.
I believe they knew what the interest rate was when they agreed to the loans in 2009. I do 
not believe therefore that I have any power to consider this part of his complaint.
I would observe in any event that UTCCR excludes from any assessment of fairness any 
term which relates to the price of goods or services. The interest rate in a loan agreement is 
in my view part of the price of the loan. So, even if I were to take a different view of the time limit, I do not believe I could properly uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Section 140A and 140B claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
Under the Limitation Act 2010 the usual time limit for bringing a claim of this nature is six 
years from the date on which the credit relationship ended. The loans were settled in 2009, 
around 11 years before any claim was made. I therefore take the view that the limitation 
period for this part of the claim is six years and that it started no later than February 2009.
Ultimately this is a decision for a court to make, but I think it is likely that a court would 
conclude that an action brought under section 140A would be out of time. BPFs response to 
that part of Mrs Ws claim was therefore reasonable.
Misrepresentation and breach of contract
Under the Limitation Act an action (that is, court action) based on misrepresentation cannot 
generally be brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. A 
misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of fact or law made by one party to a 
contract which is untrue and which induces the other party into that contract. S has simply 
said that both Mr and Mrs W feel promises made to them were not kept. So it is not clear 
there was any misrepresentation. However, if there was any misrepresentation it was made 
on or before 26 February 2009, so that is the date on which any cause of action arose.
The Limitation Act applies in a similar way to claims for breach of contract. On the face of it, 
the claims which S has raised are claims that matters were misrepresented, rather than 
being claims for breach of contract. It is likely however that any breach that may be alleged 
occurred many years ago.
S has suggested that Mr and Mrs W would not have known about any claims until some 
years after the contract was made and that they have three years from the date of 
knowledge in which to bring a claim. That reflects our own rules about time limits but does 
not reflect the position under the Limitation Act. For contract claims, the usual six-year limit 
runs from the date on which any cause of action accrued, whether or not the claimant knew 
about it. In fact S takes a section of one of my previous decisions out of context to try and 
make the point.
No claim was made until S contacted BPF in or around September 2020, nearly ten years 
later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim was made 
outside the time limits in the Limitation Act. It follows in my view that it was reasonable for 
BPF to decline to consider the misrepresentation and breach of contract claims under 
section 75 and the claims under section 56.
Is the loan agreement voidable?
S argues that the timeshare agreement was null and void, which meant the related BPF 
loan was voidable and Mr and Mrs W now wish to exercise their right to rescind it. If the 
timeshare agreement was voidable, I think it is likely that the related loan was also voidable 
on the recission of the agreement it was used to fund. This is something that could be 
considered under a s.140A CCA claim, but for the reasons I have already explained, I think 
that claim was brought too late. But it could also be a freestanding claim in its own right, so I have considered it separately.
S has asked me to consider an EU Directive, some Spanish legislation and a Spanish court 
judgment. They say that, taken together, they demonstrate that, a timeshare that provides 
for a floating week or the ability to use points to book holidays with a provider, is a voidable 
agreement. I have considered this argument. But I do not agree Mr and Mrs Ws timeshare 
agreement is voidable.
S has not supplied a full copy of the timeshare agreement but it is most likely governed by 
English law, not Spanish law, so I do not think the Spanish judgment can be applied directly 
to the question as to whether the contract is voidable under English law.
S has not asked me to consider any specific part of the relevant EU Directive or any other 
provision (in English or European law) that would point to Mr and Mrs Ws timeshare being 
voidable. Having read all of the relevant legislation, rules and regulations, I cannot see 
anything that would have the effect Mr and Mrs Ws representative seeks. In fact, in the 
recent House of Commons Library Briefing Paper, Timeshares: common problems faced by 
UK owners, it was said that a floating week or points based timeshare were basic 
timeshare models that were not described as being a problem in and of itself.
Further, I am satisfied these types of agreements fall within the definition of a timeshare 
contract contained within the Timeshare Regulations 1992. In line with the definition set out 
in Regulation 7, Mr and Mrs W acquired the right to use overnight accommodation for more 
than one period of occupation, and the contract had a duration of more than one year  and 
accommodation can be from within a pool of accommodation. So, I am also satisfied that 
these types of timeshares have never been prohibited to be sold under English law, either at 
the time of the disposal or after.
S has argued that the timeshare contract doesnt comply with the 1992 regulations because 
it didnt provide an accurate and detailed description of the immovable property and its 
location, in line with Schedule 1 from the Timeshare Regulations 1992. It thinks this means 
the contract should have specified the unit size and unit number. However, under the 
heading Information on the properties under Part 3 of the Schedule, it says the consumer is 
entitled to the following information:
- where the timeshare accommodation has been determined an accurate description of that 
accommodation and its location
The one page of the contract which I have seen identifies the accommodation as an Ocean 
1 Bed Deluxe which I consider satisfies the relevant requirements. I also note that the rules 
entitle Mr and Mrs W to accommodation at any location available.
As regards the Exact period within which the right which is the subject of the contract may 
be exercised and, if necessary, its duration, which is required by Schedule 1 of the 1992 
Timeshare Regulations. The agreement provides details of the weeks the agreement refers 
to.
This also means I dont agree with the arguments that the longer withdrawal period applies, 
or that R and BPF breached Regulation 25 by allowing advance payments to be taken 
during this withdrawal period. So, I also dont think Mrs W has any claim for negligence to 
which section 14A of the LA would apply because there was no breach of any duty of care 
on the part of BPF. Overall, based on the evidence I have seen, I do not think either the 
timeshare agreement or the related loan agreement is voidable for the reasons Ive 
explained.S 32 Issues
Typically s.32 applies to fraudulent misrepresentation but it does extend to concealment. In 
cases where that has been alleged, it can extend the time the consumer has to raise a claim.
However, Mrs W has raised a number of issues with the product (over and above failure to 
declare how to end the agreement) in their claim/complaint and those issues could have 
been discoverable earlier, so I consider that they had discovered or ought to have been able 
to discover that something had gone wrong and if that was in excess of 6 years before claim, 
so I do not believe that s.32 extends the time limit.
Conclusion
S has explained in some detail why it believes that C was in breach of a number of rules and 
regulations  including under the Timeshare Act, the EU timeshare directives, unfair terms 
legislation and both UK and Spanish law. I stress however that it is not for me to decide 
whether Mr and Mrs W have a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the 
seller. Nor is it for me to decide whether any such claim might be outside the relevant time 
limits in the Limitation Act. Rather, I must consider BPFs response to the complaints made 
by or on behalf of Mr and Mrs W.
In my view the complaints about the credit assessment and that the loan terms were unfair 
were brought outside our own time limits and I have no power to consider them.
The complaint under section and/or section 75 was brought within our own time limits. That 
is because the complaint was that BPF had not responded fairly to the claim; that response 
was made very recently. In my view however BPF acted reasonably in concluding that the 
section 75 and section 56 claims and the section 104A claims were likely to be out of time 
under the relevant provisions of the Limitation Act. It was therefore reasonable as well not to 
uphold those claims.
S didnt agree and said:
The supplier, R, wasnt regulated by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) for credit 
broking when the loan was arranged.
There is a claim to be made under s 75 CCA 1974 given that R went into liquidation 
in 2020 and Mr and Mrs Ws agreement was for 41 years and so they have lost out.
The purchase was of a floating weeks timeshare which was regulated by the 1992 
Timeshare Act. Due to the non-disclosure the withdrawal period was extended to 
three months and 10 days and as the bank paid the money before that it was 
negligent.
That negligence means s14A of the LA extends the time allowed to make a claim to 
three years from the state of knowledge which is when S was engaged.
It also submitted a number of attachments. The bank acknowledged receipt of the 
provisional decision and had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The complaint which was initially made to BPF was a very narrow one and it did not include 
reference to the OFT regulation or to a s 75 claim due to the liquidation of the supplier. We 
cannot generally investigate a complaint unless the financial business has had an 
opportunity to consider it first. For that reason, I am unable to comment on these two issues 
in this decision. It is open to Mr and Mrs W to pursue these matters with BPF if they so 
choose.
Should section 14A of the LA apply to Mrs Ws claims?
S has said that section 14A of the LA is applicable and this would extend time to when Mrs 
W became aware of the breaches of the law by R. But I still disagree. Ill explain why. 
Section 14A provides a Special time limit for negligence actions where facts relevant to 
cause of action are not known at date of accrual (as per the title of that section). It provides 
for a second period in which a claim for negligence can be made. 
Looking at what happened, when Mr and Mrs W purchased the timeshare and took out the 
finance in the form of separate loans, I think there was an obligation to give them sufficient, 
appropriate and timely information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether 
to take out the loan. But Im not persuaded a duty of care arose in the way S has argued, or 
that advice was provided that could give rise to a claim to which section 14A could apply.
It has been suggested that R breached the law while acting as an agent for BPF, so it was 
responsible for Rs actions. It has been mooted that BPF was negligent because it had a 
duty of care to ensure all laws were being complied with when R arranged the timeshare 
contract, as a linked agreement.
As I explain below when considering whether R complied with the relevant sections of the 
Timeshare Act 1992, (not the 2010 Act as S has pointed out) I dont think this creates a duty 
of care in the way S says, and I dont think BPF acted negligently. So, I still dont think 
section 14A applies in this case. And I dont think there are any other reasons or provisions 
in the LA that mean time should be extended in these circumstances.
Is Mr and Mrs Ws timeshare agreement null and void?
In my provisional findings, I explained that Id considered Ss arguments, along with the EU 
Directives, Spanish laws and Spanish legal judgment he referred to, but I wasnt persuaded 
that this meant the timeshare agreement and/or loan agreement were null and void. And Im 
still not persuaded by the arguments S has made.
As per my provisional decision, the purchase agreement makes clear that it is governed by 
English Law - not Spanish law. So, I dont think the Spanish judgment S referred to can be 
applied directly to the question of whether this timeshare agreement is voidable under 
English law. And I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude it should be 
voidable, given UK Parliament recently published a briefing paper in the House of Commons 
Library titled: Timeshares: common problems faced by UK owners, in which it said that a 
floating week or points based timeshare were basic timeshare models that were not 
described as being a problem in and of themselves.
Having considered the Timeshare Act 1992, the 1994 Directive and the relevant regulations, 
I still do not think the law makes the timeshare agreement voidable as suggested either. Ill 
explain why.
S argues that R failed to provide the required information under the Timeshare Act 1992, as 
amended by the 1994 EU Directive (94/47/EC). Section 1A Obligations to provide 
information of the Timeshares Act 1992 says:(1) A person who proposes in the course of a business to enter into a timeshare agreement 
to which this Act applies as offeror (an operator) must provide any person who requests 
information on the proposed accommodation with a document complying with subsection (2) 
below.
(2) The document shall provide  (a) a general description of the proposed accommodation, 
(b) information (which may be brief) on the matters referred to in paragraphs (a) to (g) and (i) 
of Schedule 1 to this Act [], and (c) information on how further information may be 
obtained.
Sub-section (7) goes on to say: In this section the proposed accommodation means  (a) 
The accommodation which is the subject of the proposed agreement, or (b) The 
accommodation in the pool of accommodation which is the subject of the proposed 
agreement, as the case may be.
Section 1C Obligatory terms of timeshare agreement says: (1) A person must not in the 
course of a business enter into a timeshare agreement to which this Act applies as offeror 
unless the agreement includes, as terms set out in it, the information referred to in Schedule 
1 to this Act.
Schedule 1 sets out a Minimum list of items to be included in a timeshare agreement to 
which section 1C applies. This list includes the following, which S argues were not specified 
in the timeshare agreement:
(c) When the timeshare accommodation has been determined, an accurate description of 
that accommodation and its location.
(h) The exact period within which the right which is the subject of the agreement may be 
exercised and, if necessary, its duration;
Firstly, based on the extracts above and my wider reading of the Act, the 1992 Act makes 
provision for timeshare accommodation being from a pool of accommodation, so I think it 
was drafted with those types of arrangements in mind. Nothing in the 1992 Act makes me 
think selling those types of timeshares was prohibited. So, I dont think all timeshare 
agreements had to refer to a specified apartment or set week to comply with the 1992 Act in 
the way S argues. I think setting out the resorts that could be used (in other words, the pool 
of accommodation) was sufficient for the purposes of the regulations. I consider the 
information given by R as set out above is sufficient to satisfy the 1992 requirements. So, I 
am not persuaded R failed to comply with the Timeshare Act 1992 requirements on this 
point.
This means I also dont think the longer withdrawal period applies, or that R or BPF 
breached the Timeshare Act 1992 by taking advance payments within the withdrawal period.
In any event, there is nothing in the Timeshare Act 1992 that means the timeshare 
agreement would be unenforceable, even if the minimum standard information requirements 
or other requirements under the Timeshare Act were not complied with. Given I still do not 
agree that R breached the Timeshare Act 1992 in the way S argued, I also still dont think he 
had a claim for negligence against either R or BPF on this basis. It follows that I also still 
disagree that section 14A of the LA should apply to extend the applicable time limits for Mrs 
Ws claims under the CCA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman