DRN-4138067
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Belmont Regency Limited (BRL) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to self-invested 
personal pension plan (SIPP). He says the advice he received contained errors which he 
believes has caused him to suffer a financial loss.
What happened
Mr M approached BRL in April 2020 to discuss the potential transfer of his DB pension 
scheme. Mr M told BRL that he was a former financial adviser and that he only wanted to be 
advised on the potential transfer of his DB scheme into his SIPP after which he planned to 
take over the ongoing investment management of his pension himself. BRL said that this 
was something that it could assist him with and a meeting was arranged. 
BRL told Mr M that its fee for professional clients was £3,000 and that apart from requiring 
proof that he was a professional client its process was the same as for any other of its 
clients. It said it would want to carry out a full assessment of Mr Ms finances and personal 
circumstances so would be completing a fact-find with him. 
A fact-find was duly completed in late April 2020 with BRL noting the following:
Mr M was aged 54 and married; his wife was the same age. They had one non-
dependent daughter.
Both Mr and Mrs M were retired and had a joint monthly income of £3,000 derived 
from Mrs Ms own DB pension (which paid her £1,400 per month) and their 
investment income. Mr M intended to draw his own pension benefits at age 60. Mr M 
had an existing SIPP.
Mr and Mrs M had joint monthly outgoings of £2,500.
Their home was valued at £320,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £140,000 which 
they were working to clear by 2025. They had no other liabilities or debts.
Mr and Mrs M had other assets between them worth a total of £855,000 held in a 
mixture of cash, ISAs, unit trusts and shares. 
The fact-find also included a section about attitude to risk (ATR) which was supplemented 
by a separate risk profiling form. Mr M was noted as having an overall ATR profile of 9 on a 
scale of 1 to 10. It was also noted however that Mr M wanted to be slightly more 
conservative in his investment approach. The separate risk profiling form also noted that 
Mr M was happy to trade the certainty of his DB scheme benefits for potential higher 
investment returns, flexibility and better death benefits. 
On 7 May 2020 BRL issued Mr M with an Appropriate Pension Transfer Analysis (APTA) 
report (which included a transfer value comparator (TVC)) along with a suitability report in 
which it set out its recommendation that he transfer his DB scheme benefits to his SIPP. The 
covering letter BRL sent with the suitability report said its recommendations were made 
following a full assessment of their suitability. The reasons for BRLs recommendation to 
Mr M were, in summary: -
To improve the death benefits for Mrs M and his family.
So that Mr M could have full control and flexibility over his pension assets so he 
could access his pension flexibly to suit his circumstances. 
Because Mr M was annuity averse and found the DB scheme to be too restrictive for 
his needs. He didnt want to have his income dictated to him over the course of his 
retirement. 
That BRL believed that accessing his pension funds now was the most cost effective 
and suitable option for Mr M. 
Mr M accepted BRLs recommendation and the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
his DB scheme totalling £765,965.34 (this included an AVC with a value of £29,356.81) was 
transferred to his SIPP in July 2020.
In December 2020, Mr M received a letter from BRL to say that it had decided to become a 
member of a large national financial advice partnership (which I shall refer to here as S). 
BRL said the new business would have another name (which I shall refer to here as W). 
Around January 2022 Mr M was discussing his DB scheme transfer with a former colleague 
who expressed surprise that the critical yield calculated by BRL and cited in the suitability 
report and TVC was as low as 3.3%. On further consideration, Mr M thought that the critical 
yield had been incorrectly calculated because BRL had incorrectly valued his deferred DB 
scheme pension. Mr M thought the undervaluation had resulted in an underestimation of the 
value of his DB scheme by BRL and consequently led to a highly inaccurate critical yield. 
Mr M calculated that the fund required to provide him with an equivalent annuity to what his 
DB scheme would give him at his normal retirement date (NRD) of age 60 would need to be 
61% higher that the figure cited in the APTA. Mr M also calculated that the actual critical 
yield required in order to match his DB scheme benefits at NRD was, in fact, 13.5% and not 
3.3% as cited by BRL. 
Mr M complained to S in February 2022. He said that the correct critical yield was a 
completely unrealistic level of return and, had it been correctly cited at the time of the advice, 
he would never have proceeded with the transfer. Consequently Mr M said hed suffered a 
financial loss. 
S replied to say that the advice he was complaining about wasnt provided by one of its 
appointed representatives. It said W had not become an appointed representative of S until 
November 2020 which post-dated the advice he was given. S said that as it hadnt been 
responsible for providing the advice it was closing his complaint. 
Mr M then complained to BRL. It replied to say that its financial services side had been 
closed down and its clients transferred to W in 2021. BRL also said it was no longer 
registered by the FCA and had applied to Companies House to have the company removed 
from the companies register. BRL said it understood the advice it gave to Mr M had been 
provided on an execution only basis. Finally it said it couldnt provide any more assistance 
and directed Mr M in the direction of this service. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint having first satisfied herself that this was a 
complaint that had been correctly brought against BRL, it being responsible for providing 
Mr M with the advice to transfer. Our Investigator asked BRL for its file but it said it no longer 
had it. Both BRL and our investigator asked W for a copy of the file but a copy was never 
provided. BRL subsequently managed to locate a few documents from the time of the advice 
and forwarded them to our Investigator. 
Whilst our Investigator was looking into his complaint, Mr M approached his former DB 
scheme provider for some further information, principally about what his deferred pension 
revalued at his NRD of age 60 would be (obtaining from it a revaluation statement). Mr M 
forwarded this information to our Investigator and said it showed that BRL had revalued his 
deferred DB pension incorrectly. Mr M said his principal complaint was that BRL had incorrectly calculated his revalued DB pension and that the information he had obtained from 
his former DB scheme provider proved it. He said that information showed by how much the 
revalued pension had been undervalued by BRL and that the correct critical yield at the time 
of the advice had actually been 12%. 
Our Investigator issued her view on Mr Ms complaint in March 2023 and recommended that 
it was upheld. She thought that Mr M had been advised by BRL to transfer his DB scheme 
pension based on incorrect information. Our Investigator recommended that BRL 
compensate Mr M by undertaking a redress calculation in line with the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) guidance. 
Mr M accepted our Investigators findings. BRL replied to say that it had closed its business 
in 2021 and was a business in name only as it had no funds or even a bank account. It said 
that it had ensured that all rules and regulations had been followed when closing down and 
deregistering the business with the FCA and Companies House. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What follows below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of BRLs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
BRL has said that Mr M was an experienced professional client who wanted to take a high 
level of risk. It also said that there was no mention at the time of the advice that the transfer 
was being concluded based on the critical yield. Mr M has said that obtaining the critical 
yield was central to the advice process for him because it would enable him to evaluate if transferring his DB scheme benefits was viable. In Mr Ms mind, the threshold for the transfer 
was a critical yield no greater than 5%.
Ive seen an exchange of emails between BRL and Mr M from the time of the advice. In one 
email in May 2020, Mr M refers to the critical yield of 3.3% cited on page 7 of the TVC and 
says; This looks like a reasonable yield objective to myself, to which BRL replied, This 
critical yield does not concern us at all and is absolutely realistic considering your attitude ti 
[sic] riskit is relatively low so that is positive. In a later email to BRL on 20 May 2020 Mr M 
said, I agree I think the 3.3% critical yield is a reasonable figure... if it had been above 5 or 
6% I think it may have been a different outcome!. 
I think this email exchange demonstrates that the critical yield figure was important to Mr M 
and that he made BRL aware ahead of the transfer that if that figure had been above 5% or 
6% then he would have been unlikely to have wanted to proceed with the DB transfer.
BRL commented at one stage that Mr Ms was an execution only transfer but having 
reviewed the available evidence in this complaint Im unable to agree. The transfer was 
clearly conducted after full advice as to its suitability was assessed and a recommendation 
was subsequently made. I accept that the advice was limited to the suitability of the DB 
transfer only, and that Mr M was classed as an Elective Professional Client, but neither of 
these facts makes the transfer execution only. 
And Ive noted too the email from BRL to Mr M on 8 April 2020 in which it states: Apart from 
that [the requirement for Mr M to sign a professional client notice] our process is the same 
as any other client. We would want to do a full an [sic] in depth assessment of your finances 
and personal circumstances meaning we would need a full fact find completing along with a 
raft of other documents. So I think its clear that BRL understood it was providing Mr M with 
full advice on his prospective DB transfer. And as BRL is no doubt aware, when transferring 
a DB scheme with a CETV in excess of £30,000 the FCA requires financial advice to be 
sought. 
In any event, whether Mr M made it clear to BRL that he had a critical yield threshold, 
whether he had a higher than usual level of knowledge and experience and whether he 
wanted to take a high level of risk is all of little relevance. Thats because the fact remains 
that BRL was foremost under a duty to have due regard to Mr Ms information needs and to 
communicate information to him in a way which was clear, fair and not misleading. This 
meant that Mr M was entitled to be given correct information on which to base his decision. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen however, Im not persuaded that happened. Ill explain why.
As both BRL and Mr M will be aware, the critical yield is essentially the average annual 
investment return required on the CETV from the time of advice until retirement (before the 
provider applies its charges) to provide the same annuity income at retirement as the DB 
pension would have done. It tells the consumer how likely it is that a personal pension plan 
will be able to achieve the necessary investment growth for the pension transfer to result in a 
higher pension than the DB scheme would provide (on the assumption that the consumer 
buys an annuity at retirement). Put differently it is a useful measure of whether the transfer is 
a financially viable one and provides a reasonably close like-for-like comparison with the DB 
scheme. 
If the wrong information or assumptions are used when calculating the critical yield however 
then it will likely produce an inaccurate answer. Having considered the APTA from May 2020 
along with the revaluation statement recently provided by Mr Ms former scheme I can see 
from the former that BRL said that Mr Ms estimated (DB) annual pension at retirement on 
his 60th birthday was cited as being £17,376.68. However Mr Ms former scheme recently provided a revaluation statement for him showing that his annual DB pension on his 60th 
birthday would have been £24,848. 
Clearly there is a substantial difference between these two figures. The annuity figure 
(£17,368.68) cited by BRL in the APTA impacted the other calculations contained in the 
report. Firstly the TVC contained in the APTA compared the CETV with the estimated cost of 
acquiring the same promised income (i.e. the deferred DB scheme pension) from a defined 
contribution scheme. It concluded that it would cost Mr M £172,150.68 more than the value 
of his CETV (£736,608.53) to do so. But the promised income was £17,368.68. If that 
promised income/deferred pension had been correctly calculated then it is reasonable to 
assume the TVC would have been substantially higher than the additional £172,150.68 BRL 
had calculated. 
Secondly, the critical yield calculation would have been similarly affected. BRL calculated in 
the APTA the fund Mr M would need (£851,252.12) in order to purchase benefits of equal 
value to the estimated benefits provided by his existing DB scheme. From this figure the 
critical yield was then calculated. To attain this sum by NRD, BRL calculated that the annual 
investment return/critical yield that Mr M would need to achieve was 3.3%. Similarly, 
however, this fund was based on Mr Ms annual DB scheme income being £17,368.68. Had 
this income being correctly calculated however then it is reasonable to assume that the cost 
of providing it would have been substantially higher than the £851,252.12 calculated by BRL. 
Ive reviewed the transfer value information on page 33 of the APTA and note the revaluation 
figures cited there by BRL. On comparing them with the transfer value details provided by 
the DB scheme provider on the Statement of Entitlement however I can see that the figure 
BRL has used for the revaluation of the pension in excess of GMP is lower than the 
schemes figure. And its this error that has meant BRL based its calculations in the APTA on 
an incorrect revaluation figure which in turn led to a significantly lower TVC figure and a 
significantly lower critical yield. Consequently Mr Ms CETV was significantly short of the 
amount needed to match his deferred DB scheme benefits. 
I also think its worth mentioning that BRL had access to a software package so that it could 
make the calculations required in the APTA. Consequently it was BRLs responsibility to 
correctly input the information that calculated the revalued deferred DB pension from which it 
then calculated the TVC and the critical yield. I note too that BRL could have produced a 
new APTA based on the correct revalued deferred pension figures and then have gone on to 
discuss this with Mr M to see if he had been disadvantaged by its error, however, it has 
chosen not to do so.
From the evidence Ive seen therefore, I think that BRL made an error when running the 
necessary calculations to generate the information it needed to insert in the APTA. As a 
result, the information it gave to Mr M, and on which he based his decision to transfer, was 
misleading and therefore unfair. 
It matters not that Mr M had a high ATR because foremost he was entitled to receive 
accurate information on which to base his decision. So there is no need for me to consider 
his ATR against the critical yield and decide if this was a financially viable transfer. I need 
only satisfy myself here that Mr M was first given clear, fair and not misleading information 
on which to base his decision. As he wasnt, it follows that I dont think BRL acted 
professionally and in accordance with Mr Ms best interests. Mr M made an irrevocable 
decision to transfer his DB scheme pension based on incorrect information for which BRL 
was responsible. If the APTA had shown the correct critical yield which, after considering the 
evidence Im satisfied would have been much higher than 3.3%, I dont think Mr M would 
have gone ahead with the transfer as it would not have represented good value for money.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
BRL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, although Mr M is retired, he has not taken any of his benefits and he has no plans 
to do so at present. So, compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 60, 
as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of 
Mr Ms acceptance of my decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, BRL should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts BRLs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Mr M may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15%/30% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £355,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £355,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Belmont Regency 
Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £355,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £355,000 I also recommend that 
Belmont Regency Limited pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Belmont Regency 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman