DRN-3879802
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by Cradle Overseas Pensions Ltd to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if 
risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Rs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr R approached Cradle in November 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He 
was introduced to Cradle by another adviser who couldnt advise on DB pension transfers. 
And he was concerned about the situation with the BSPS. 
Cradle completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Rs circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that he was aged 54, married and had two non-dependent children. 
Both he and his wife were employed full time. They had a property worth £450,000 and they 
jointly held £22,000 in cash. Mr R owed £5,000 on a credit card and £13,000 in a personal 
loan.
Cradle also carried out an assessment of Mr Rs attitude to risk, which it said was cautious. 
And Mr R has said that one of his main concerns was that his pension wouldnt perform well 
enough for it to support his retirement plans. So, its reasonable to say he didnt want to take 
a great deal of risk. 
In respect of Mr Rs pension arrangements, he had received a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) from the BSPS in September 2017. This showed that he had around 32 years 
service. He was entitled to a pension of about £32,500 at the date of leaving the scheme. 
The CETV was about £830,000. And he had joined his employers group personal pension in 
April 2017. Both he and his employer were contributing into this, and it was valued as 
£6,500.
On 1 December 2017, Cradle advised Mr R to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP and 
invest the proceeds into several funds that it said matched his attitude to risk. The suitability 
report said the reasons for this recommendation were that he wanted to retire at age 60 and 
he could meet this need whilst taking a relatively low risk. The transfer value was 
advantageous and the potential death benefits were greater and could leave his family better 
off if he were to die prematurely. He didnt need the income from this pension to meet his 
needs, so the transfer had very little risk.
Cradle advised Mr R to join the BSPS2 as he didnt want to enter the PPF. Im assuming 
that Mr R did this  although this doesnt affect my considration of the complaint. 
After receiving a letter from the industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
advising that he might have received unsuitable advice Mr R complained to Cradle in 2021. 
He later went on to say that as a cautious investor he shouldnt have been advised to take 
the risk of the DB transfer. 
 
Cradle didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It used a guide that the FCA had produced to 
consider unsuitable DB transfer complaints. And it thought that it had covered all the areas 
that could result in unsuitable advice. It felt that the transfer met Mr Rs needs at the time 
and that he would always have transferred as he didnt want his pension to end up in the 
PPF. 
Mr R referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An Investigator upheld the 
complaint and recommended that Cradle pay compensation. Our Investigator didnt think 
that it was in Mr Rs best interests to transfer his DB scheme to a SIPP as he was likely to 
receive lower retirement benefits as a result. The advantages of the SIPP didnt outweigh 
this. Our Investigator thought that Cradle should pay Mr R £350 for the worry the advice 
caused him. 
Cradle disagreed, but at the same time it said that it would perform a loss assessment to 
determine if Mr R had suffered a loss. It completed this in September 2022 and it was based 
on the FCAs guidance given in FG17/9, this showed that Mr R hadnt suffered a loss due to 
the transfer. It agreed to pay Mr R £350 for the distress and inconvenience the advice would 
have caused him. 
Mr R didnt agree with Cradles calculation and requested that an ombudsman consider the 
complaint. He also employed an actuary to consider the calculation. His actuary commented 
on the calculation and, in particular, they questioned whether it had correctly considered the 
future charges on the SIPP and inflation. Cradle considered these comments but still thought 
that its redress calculation was performed correctly and within the guidance of the time. 
At a later point Cradle explained why it thought the Investigators opinion was incorrect. It did 
this in some detail and I have read all the comments it made about this. I don't intend to refer 
to every point it made here. But a summary is that it thought the advice was right for Mr R as 
he didnt want or need the income from his DB scheme. This is because his partner had 
provision of her own and they would both receive state pensions in time. This would take 
them close to their target retirement income of £32,000 a year. So, it was reasonable that he 
transferred his DB scheme funds and use those in a more flexible way. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so both parties were informed 
that an ombudsman would consider the complaint in due course. 
And after this, the regulator developed, and now provides access to, a BSPS-specific 
redress calculator. Both parties to the complaint have been informed that if I uphold the complaint, Im likely to award compensation based on this. And Cradle has now confirmed 
that it would be prepared to do a loss calculation using this and pay any compensation that 
arises. 
Cradle also made Mr R an ex-gratia offer of £1,000 to settle the complaint. But this wasnt 
accepted by Mr R, and I understand it is now withdrawn. 
And as far as I can see, Cradle hasnt performed a loss assessment yet although it does 
seem to be in the process of gathering information to allow it to do this. But agreement 
hasnt been reached by both sides, even though Cradle has said that in principle it will 
calculate if any compensation is due to Mr R. And Mr R has said that he would like an 
ombudsmans decision to ensure finality, particularly about the compensation method. 
So, Ive looked at whether the advice was suitable for Mr R and how Cradle should put this 
right if it isnt. Ive set out my conclusions below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Cradle's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Cradle 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Rs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.Cradle was required to carry out a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report by the regulator. 
This calculated the critical yield which was how much Mr Rs pension fund would need to 
grow by each year to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme. It showed this was 
14.61% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 60. I 
understand this was based on the BSPS2. I cant see that any calculations were done if 
Mr R were to take tax-free cash which isnt unreasonable as he didnt seem to need this. 
To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid from age 60 the critical yield was 12.34% 
and to match the tax-free cash and reduced pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 
11.52%.
The discount rate, which represents a reasonable assumption about future growth, was 3% 
for four years to retirement in this case. And given this, and Mr Rs recorded cautious 
attitude to risk, and the regulators lower projection rate of 2%, I think Mr R was always likely 
to receive pension benefits, from age 60, of a lower value that those hed have been entitled 
to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring and investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
And this was recognised at the time of sale when the suitability report said that referring to 
the returns needed that they were unlikely to be achieved and is outside of your attitude to 
risk and so if you were definitely going to purchase an annuity at age 60 to match the 
benefits in the new British Steel pension then you should not transfer. And gave warnings 
that he may not be able to secure the same, or the same type of income, as the DB scheme 
would have provided.
Cradle has said that Mr R didnt want a regular income from this DB scheme benefits as he 
and his wife had other provisions. So it was a realistic option that he didnt use this pension 
to provide a regular income. It seems clear enough that Mr R didnt disagree with this at the 
time. But it wasnt Cradles role just to put in place what Mr R mightve thought he wanted. Its 
role was to advise him on what was in his best interests. Put simply, given the financial 
detriment that Mr R may suffer due to the transfer, it really had to be the best option for him, 
not just something he thought was a reasonable idea. 
Mr and Mrs R wanted an income in retirement of about £32,000. It was estimated that Mr Rs 
DB scheme would have provided around £41,750 at his age 65. And Mrs R had a DB 
scheme that would give her an annual pension of £14,000 at her age 60 (she was three 
years younger than Mr R) and they would both receive their state pensions of just over 
£8,000 each year. 
So, I dont think there is any doubt that Mr and Mrs R had more than enough income to meet 
their needs at age 65. But having more income than they may have needed isnt a good 
enough reason to transfer on its own. Mr and Mrs R could have used this extra income to 
fully enjoy their retirement or save in a tax efficient way for their wider family. And their 
needs at the point of sale are only estimates, and they could end up needing much more at 
some point in the future. There needs to be a good reason for Mr R to make the transfer in 
addition to this, due to the lower benefits he may receive and the increase in the risk he 
would be taking. But as far as I can see there wasnt a pressing need, and no party to the 
complaint has said that there was. 
And I dont think it was fully explored whether the DB scheme could have met their 
retirement aims in a different way. It was noted that at 60 the BSPS2 would provide tax-free 
cash of about £155,250 and an income of about £23,250. This was lower than Mr and Mrs R 
said they wanted at their retirement, but they could have Mr Rs tax-free cash to use until 
Mrs Rs pension, and their state pensions, became payable in due course. Or Mr R could 
have thought about retiring earlier. I think its clear that Mr R had a significant degree of flexibility with his existing arrangements, and this should have been the first place to look to 
meet his retirement aims. 
Mr R was giving up a guaranteed and increasing income. I dont think that Cradle should 
have advised him to alter his retirement provisions, at a significant potential overall cost, 
without fully exploring any alternatives he could have used to meet these aims. The pension 
under the BSPS2 or PPF was guaranteed. And appears to have been a more appropriate 
way to meet Mr Rs income needs in retirement  which is the primary purpose of a pension. 
I dont think transferring to obtain flexibility in this way was in his best interests.
Cradle said Mr R was interested in the improved death benefits a transfer offered to his 
family, I note this wasnt a main objective of his. But the priority here was to advise Mr R 
about what was best for his retirement. And the existing scheme offered death benefits, by 
way of a spouses pension, that couldve been valuable to his family in the event of his 
death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum, the 
sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be different. As well as 
being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also been reduced by any income 
Mr R drew in his lifetime. And so may not have provided the legacy that Mr R may have 
thought it would. 
If Mr R had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, Cradle couldve explored life insurance 
as an alternative. He did have some disposable income through which he couldve met the 
associated premiums and this couldve been considered on a whole of life or term assurance 
basis  which was likely to be cheaper. But there's little evidence Cradle did so, or that Mr R 
was concerned about this aspect of his finances. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the likely 
decrease of retirement benefits for Mr R. And ultimately Cradle should not have encouraged 
Mr R to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a SIPP over his security 
in retirement.
Cradle has said that Mr R wanted to control his pension benefits. By this it understood Mr R 
wanted to choose how he took his benefits and have some input about how and where his 
funds were invested  as he has done. 
But I think Mr Rs desire for control over how his pension was invested was overstated. I 
dont think he needed to control how he took his benefits in this way and I cant see that he 
an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension in a more detailed way. 
And the recommendation seems to have been given on the basis hed receive, and pay for, 
ongoing support with his pension. Which has increased the cost of his retirement. So, I dont 
think that this was a genuine objective for Mr R  it was simply a consequence of transferring 
away from his DB scheme.
Mr R may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his pension 
and the prospect of entering the PPF. And it was recorded that he very strongly didnt trust 
his employer. But it was Cradles role to objectively address those concerns. At the time of 
the advice, all signs pointed toward the BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF 
still provided Mr R with guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr R 
was unlikely to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this meant 
that transferring was in his best interests.Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Rs best interests to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a SIPP. And I also havent seen anything to persuade 
me that Mr R wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB scheme. 
So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr R received from Cradle was 
unsuitable for him.
Our Investigator recommended that Cradle also pay Mr R £350 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. Mr R said that the incorrect advice has caused him worry. In 
particular, hes been concerned about whether the transfer would affect his retirement 
income. I dont doubt that Mr R has been caused concern in relation to his retirement 
planning, in what was already a difficult time for employees of the company he worked for. 
And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the 
circumstances, I think the award the Investigator recommended is fair. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would most 
likely have joined the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
Cradle must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Cradle should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr R and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Cradle 
based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr R has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Rs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Cradle should:
calculate and offer Mr R redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr R before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment his 
DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr R receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr R accepts Cradles offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr R for the calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Rs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr R as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Cradle may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that Mr Rs 
would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Rs likely 
income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 
15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Cradle should also pay Mr R £350 for the distress and inconvenience the poor advice 
caused him. 
Mr R did comment on the earlier loss assessment and provided input from an actuary. But 
the calculation will now be redone using new assumptions and some changes in 
methodology. So, I dont think I need to comment on what his actuary said about the earlier 
calculation. Its not now relevant to the complaint. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
Cradle Overseas Pensions Ltd pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Cradle Overseas 
Pensions Ltd to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Cradle Overseas Pensions Ltd pays Mr R the balance.
If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Cradle Overseas 
Pensions Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman