DRN-1561552
 
The complaint
Mrs complains that Saga Services Limited (Saga) said it had no record of a claim she says 
she reported to it by phone on the claims telephone number listed on its website. 
What happened
Mrs S car was involved in an accident whilst being driven by her husband who is a named 
driver on the policy. Mrs S says that later that evening, around seven oclock, when they 
were at home, they called the claims number listed on Sagas website to report the claim. 
Mrs S says as a result of this call, they received a call back the following morning, from a 
company she believed to be Saga, to discuss the details of the claim.
Five days after this Mrs S received a call from Saga telling her the other driver had made a 
claim against her policy and asking her why she hadnt reported the accident. Mrs S 
explained she thought she had reported it, she gave Saga the number she had received the 
call back from following the accident.
Saga investigated this and told Mrs S they had no trace of the claim being reported. It said, it 
did have a record of a call from her phone number to it on the day of the accident, but the 
call lasted just 49 seconds and never connected to an agent. It also said it had checked the 
number which Mrs S had received the call from and it appeared to be a claims handling 
company (CH) and had nothing to do with Saga.
Mrs S was unhappy with this explanation and brought her complaint to us. She said that she 
had only made one call on the evening of the accident to the number listed on Sagas 
website and so Saga must have diverted her call to the other company. She feels that 
Sagas failure to recognise that she registered the claim couldve led to the claim not being 
covered or her insurance being cancelled.
Mrs S provided an itemised call listing from her phone provider (B) for the night of the 
accident. The letter from B says that it couldnt provide a call itemisation for the full period 
requested by Mrs S. What it did show was two calls outgoing from Mrs S home number on 
the day of the accident  neither number belongs to Saga. The investigator didnt uphold Mrs 
S complaint, in summary they said there was no evidence to show that Saga had been 
notified of the claim and so hadnt done anything wrong. Mrs S disagreed and so the matter 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence. This decision only addresses those 
issues I consider to be materially relevant to the complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so 
I have to tell Mrs S that I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly 
the same reasons, Ill explain.
While I understand Mrs S strength of feeling and certainty that she and her husband 
reported the accident to Saga on its number, the evidence both she and Saga have supplied 
dont support this. Saga has provided a screen shot of its system showing incoming calls to it 
from Mrs S phone number on the day of the accident. The log shows that there was a call to 
it at 19:00 from Mrs S, the call lasted 49 seconds and was never connected to an operator.
The itemised call log Mrs S provided to us from B doesnt show this call, I think its likely it 
doesnt because the call never connected. But it does show another call four minutes later at 
19:04 to CHs number. Mrs S feels the call mustve been diverted from Saga to CH, but I 
dont think that happened here. If it had I think the itemised call list from B would show 
Sagas number rather than CHs number. I think what more likely happened is that Mrs S 
tried to call Saga to report the accident, for whatever reason the call didnt connect and the 
next call that Mrs S made was to CH, albeit she believed it was to Saga.
I believe Mrs S truly thought she had done the right thing and reported the accident to Saga 
and can understand why she was so upset when she received a call from Saga telling her 
she hadnt done this. I know Mrs S will be disappointed, as this isnt the outcome she was 
hoping for, but based on the above Im satisfied Saga hasnt done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman