DRN-2914774
The complaint
Mrs D complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
In November 2016, Mrs D was given a cash loan of £2,400 to be repaid in 36 monthly 
instalments of around £116.71. The total amount repayable over the term including charges 
and interest was £4,201.47. The loan has been repaid in full and on time. Mrs D says at the 
time she had several payday loans, a bank loan and had borrowed from friends and family. 
She says AvantCredit didnt assess her application and situation properly and she couldnt 
afford the loan.
AvantCredit said they felt she could afford the loan based on the information she gave and 
that it obtained. They said all instalments were received on time with no sign of financial 
hardship.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ds complaint. She agreed AvantCredit should have 
undertaken more checks on Mrs Ds application, but felt that if it had done so, it would still 
have agreed the loan. AvantCredit agreed with our investigators assessment, but Mrs D 
didnt. As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I didnt agree with the findings of our investigator and issued a provisional decision. I said: 
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  including 
the key relevant rules, guidance good industry practice and law. And Ive considered this 
approach when deciding this complaint. 
AvantCredit needed to take steps to ensure that it didnt lend to Mrs D irresponsibly by 
carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks. I think there are key questions I need to 
consider in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint:
Did AvantCredit carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs D was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? 
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? Did 
AvantCredit make a fair lending decision?
Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs D in some other way?   
AvantCredit was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment. This assessment is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability check or affordability assessment. The purpose of 
the checks is for AvantCredit to think about whether repaying a loan sustainably would 
cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs D. In other words, it wasnt about 
AvantCredit assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to consider the impact of 
the loan repayments on Mrs D. 
AvantCredit had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs D 
would be able to repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that AvantCredit 
had to do, but it could take into account several different things such as the amount and 
length of the loan, the amount of the monthly repayments and the overall circumstances of 
the borrower.
Taking all that into account, I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough where:
a customer has a low income (because it may make it more difficult to make loan 
payments of a set amount from a low level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (because it may be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment for a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (because the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
higher, and the customer is obliged to make payments for a longer period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (because of the risk of repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing has become or was becoming 
unsustainable).  
Did AvantCredit carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
AvantCredit says it carried out a number of checks on receipt of Mrs Ds application 
including income, credit file and expenditure checks. It says Mrs Ds income was verified 
using a credit reference agency tool and her credit file was checked for pre-existing debt 
obligations. It compared the results with her net monthly income to gauge affordability. It also 
noted that her credit file showed shed not been in any arrears in the previous 12 months on 
any account.  
Mrs D had told AvantCredit she was earning £1,300 which was confirmed. AvantCredit said 
her monthly credit obligation payments were listed as £200 per month on her credit file, so it 
was confident she could afford the monthly repayments of £116.71. 
Ive looked at the information AvantCredit collected during the application process and I 
agree with the amount it used for Mrs Ds income. The application detail Ive seen shows 
Mrs D as living in rented accommodation with monthly rent of £100 and utilities of £100. 
These figures, added to what AvantCredit says it used for her credit obligations of £200, 
gives a total figure for outgoings of £400. Compared to her income of £1,300, that would 
leave her £900 monthly disposable income, so I can see why AvantCredit thought the loan 
was affordable.
But the credit file AvantCredit say they used for Mrs Ds application shows that in the last 
three months, shed had seven new credit accounts and five balance increases. She had two 
card accounts and five loans with a total balance across all active accounts of almost 
£13,000. In the last six months, shed had twelve new accounts, and 22 in the last year.
Given the volume of new accounts opened over the last year and the size of the debts Mrs D 
was servicing compared to her income, I would have expected AvantCredit to look more 
closely into her financial situation. I feel there is evidence there to show she was becoming increasingly reliant on credit. I agree with our investigator that I dont think the checks 
AvantCredit carried out were sufficient to be considered reasonable and proportionate.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? Did AvantCredit 
make a fair lending decision?
Ive outlined above some of the circumstances which I think ought to have led AvantCredit to 
carry out further checks on Mrs Ds financial situation. In light of what appears to be a 
reliance on credit by Mrs D, I think it would have been reasonable for AvantCredit to get a 
detailed understanding of her existing financial commitments, including evidence of income 
and expenditure  for example, by asking for bank statements or similar. Mrs D says that 
AvantCredit did ask for some bank statements, but Ive not seen that from its file submission, 
and it hasnt mentioned doing so.
The rules lenders must follow are set out by the industry regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). At the time AvantCredit lent to 
Mrs D, CONC 5.3.1 4(b) said it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its 
assessment of the customers income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Mrs D has provided me with bank statements from 9 August 2016 to January 2017 (after the 
loan was drawn towards the end of November 2016). There is a loan repayment to a high 
street bank for £245 per month, two payments to credit cards varying between £100 and 
£150 per month combined, plus several payday loan transactions. It is very clear that the 
£200 per month AvantCredit used for credit obligations when conducting its affordability 
checks was too low. Her other commitments listed on the application appear low and/or 
incomplete too.
I note Mrs D was applying for a loan for debt consolidation. It isnt clear from the application 
which debts she was looking to refinance. According to the credit file AvantCredit used to 
assess the application, Mrs Ds total balances on all accounts totalled £12,992 with total 
monthly payments on all accounts excluding mortgages of £660. So, while initially some of 
Mrs Ds outgoings may have been reduced in the short term by consolidating some of her 
debt, its not clear how lending £2,400 would assist Mrs D be sustainable for her in the 
longer term alongside her existing, non-consolidated commitments.
Each month Mrs Ds salary was received in the statements provided, there were at least two 
payday loans (sometimes more) going into the account and repayments going out the 
following day. Its clear to me that Mrs D was in a cycle of debt which was growing each 
month and she couldnt afford what she had. 
If AvantCredit had obtained a thorough understanding of Mrs Ds existing financial 
commitments from Mrs D, I think it ought to have spotted this cycle and concluded that shed 
be unable to repay this new loan sustainably. It follows that I dont think it made a fair lending 
decision.
 Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs D in some other way?    
Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to 
this complaint. Having done so, I dont think AvantCredit has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mrs D in some other way. 
But I do think AvantCredit should have refused to lend to Mrs D, so I am upholding her 
complaint about the loan. Both AvantCredit and Mrs D accepted my provisional decision, so I see no reason to depart 
from that decision.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. 
In this case, that would mean putting Mrs D in the position she would be in now if she hadnt 
been given the loan. Mrs D was given the loan, used the money and has already repaid the 
entire amount including interest due under the agreement.
So, I think AvantCredit should:
Calculate the total amount Mrs D has paid to the loan (including interest and 
charges) and deduct the amount of the loan itself (£2,400). 
oIf this results in Mrs D having repaid more than the loan he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded to her along with 8% simple interest from 
the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement. 
oIf AvantCredit considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs D how much its taken 
off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Ds credit file regarding the loan. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint. AvantCredit of UK, 
LLC should put things right for Mrs D in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman