DRN-2042575
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) didnt advise him of the possible consequences 
when he was refunded for multiple direct debit payments under the direct debit indemnity 
scheme. 
What happened
Mr B says he visited his local TSB branch on two occasions in August 2016 and March 2017 
to cancel direct debits for gym memberships. In May 2019 Mr B noticed that these direct 
debits were still being taken from his bank account. Mr B visited the branch and they 
arranged for the direct debits to be refunded. Mr B says that he is now being pursued by one 
of the gyms via a debt collection agency. Mr B says that TSB failed to carry out his original 
requests to cancel the direct debits in 2016 and 2017 and when it refunded him the direct 
debit payments failed to advise him that the gym may contact him directly and  ask for the 
monies back. 
Mr B feels TSB are responsible and need to pay back directly to the gym the amount owed 
as he only asked them to cancel from March 2017 and not from January 2017  the amounts  
refunded to his account. Mr B feels that because of the fact TSB claimed all of the monies 
including January to March 2017 is the reason why the gym has now insisted he pays all of 
the money as they feel he hasnt been honest with them as to when he used his gym 
membership. 
TSB  paid Mr B £50 by way of an apology for any inconvenience caused, but subsequently 
stated they had made no banking error as they could find no record of Mr B visiting the 
branch either in 2016 or 2017 to cancel the direct debits.   TSB also say that letters were 
sent to Mr B advising him they had refunded his direct debit and at the same time the 
possibility the company may contact him directly about any money he might owe them. As a 
result, they feel they have done nothing wrong.
Mr B was unhappy with the response from TSB and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked into the complaint based on the information available to him but 
didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He felt that there was no evidence to support the fact Mr B 
had visited the branch either in 2016 or 2017 to cancel the direct debits. The investigator 
also says that TSB have since refunded the direct debit payments as requested and TSB 
had provided letters explaining to Mr B the company may be in contact about any money, he 
may owe them. 
Mr B wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration when he felt he had given instructions to TSB to cancel 
direct debits and then to find when this had been actioned 2 years later, one  direct debit 
claim was for the wrong dates adding to confusing with gym provider. 
For the purposes of my decision I have focussed on the direct debit to the gym provider, 
which I will refer to as H, as the other direct debit payment seems to have been dealt with. I 
have looked at whether TSB had been at fault when raising the direct debit indemnity claim 
and if they were responsible for not cancelling it earlier. 
Mr B says that he visited his TSB branch in March 2017 to cancel his direct debit with his 
gym provider H. I have looked at the information provided by both parties here, but I  havent 
seen any evidence to show that Mr B visited the TSB branch at that time, and I can only 
make my decision on the information and evidence provided to me. Mr H also says at this 
time he told a member of the gym H staff,  he needed to cancel his gym membership, 
although the gym provider H dispute this.
Mr B says that in 2019  he noticed that his H gym membership was still being taken from his 
account and arranged with the branch at that time to initiate a direct debit indemnity claim. 
Mr B says that TSB never mentioned gym H may contact him for the monies back following 
the refund to his account and that they failed to act correctly on his instructions to cancel 
from March 2017 and instead recalled this from Jan 2017. Mr B feels that the actions taken 
by TSB in recalling more than he asked has led to gym H taking a hard line with him and 
have now demanded the return of all of the payments refunded under the direct debit. Mr B 
says during his discussions with gym H he believed he was only talking about the 
membership he believed he had cancelled from March 2017 onwards and this has created a 
bigger issue and why they are now pursuing him for all of the refunds made under the direct 
debit indemnity claim.
I have considered these points and as I have pointed out I can only come to my decision 
based on the evidence and information provided to me. I have seen a copy of a letter sent to 
Mr B  provided by TSB that show Mr B was informed of the potential of the gym H coming 
back to him - in the letter it says  If our checks show that a refund wasn't due, then we might 
have to take it back from your account. We'll let you know if this happens.The company may 
contact you directly about any money you owe them.  It follows, I am satisfied that Mr B 
would have been aware that this was a possibility. 
I cant see any evidence to support Mr Bs claim he only wanted the direct debit indemnity 
claim from March 2017. Even if that was the case it is Mr Bs responsibility to check his bank 
statements to ensure the amount, he had been refunded was correct. I would expect that if 
the gym H felt there was a problem at that time this could have been explained to them and 
any dispute over whether or not he attended the gym or gave instructions to cancel his 
membership was a matter between Mr B and H gym  so it follows I cant hold TSB 
responsible for those areas of dispute. 
From what I have seen here the problem with gym H stems back from when Mr B says he 
cancelled his membership verbally with them and it does appear that this is why the dispute 
exists with gym H and not solely the level of the amount he has claimed under the direct 
debit. I am satisfied this would have  been exacerbated by the fact it was over 2 years before 
Mr B noticed this. Its reasonable to say that, on balance, this has added to the complication 
between him and gym H and Mr B would be responsible to check his bank statements over 
this period of time. This would have meant the direct debit cancellation could have been 
acted upon sooner and helped here. On balance based on all that I have seen, I am satisfied that TSB did carry out the 
instructions given to them by Mr B and any dispute that exists is between him and gym H 
and I cant see that TSB can be held responsible for that. It follows that while Mr B will be 
disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of TSB here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman