DRN-1586626
 
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy with what DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) did 
after she made a claim on her legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Ms H has legal expenses insurance with DAS. In 2016 she made a claim on her policy as 
she wanted to take action against a water company which she believed was responsible for 
flooding at her property. DAS appointed panel solicitors who agreed the claim had 
reasonable prospects of success (as required by the policy terms).
The water company argued it had the right to discharge water on Ms H's land and disputed it 
was responsible for flooding. Matters progressed and DAS authorised the production of an 
expert report. Once this was available (in January 2019) the panel solicitors were concerned 
as to whether the claim still enjoyed reasonable prospects of success. DAS agreed they 
should seek counsel's opinion and authorised further tests if recommended by counsel. In 
March 2019 and August 2019 Ms H raised concerns with DAS about the progress of her 
case. 
Counsel's opinion was received in September which said the prospects of success were now 
below 50%. DAS agreed the panel solicitors should therefore try to settle the case on the 
best possible terms and that it would continue to provide funding for this. The water 
company wasn't prepared to accept the settlement offers that were made. I understand the 
claim has now been withdrawn and Ms H has had to accept the water company had the right 
to discharge water on her land. 
DAS accepted it hadn't properly responded to the concerns Ms H raised about the progress 
of her case. And it offered to pay £250 because of this. But neither the panel solicitors nor 
counsel had agreed with Ms H's concerns about the expert report. And as counsel's opinion 
said the case no longer had prospects of success it was entitled to withdraw cover for this 
(though it had extended cover to assist efforts to settle the case on the best possible terms).
Our investigator noted the requirement for a case to have reasonable prospects of success 
was ongoing and didn't think DAS had done anything wrong in withdrawing cover when that 
was no longer the case. And she thought the compensation DAS had offered did enough to 
recognise that it hadn't acted properly when Ms H got in touch with it about her concerns. 
Ms H didn't agree. She provided her own timeline of events and said the panel solicitors 
hadn't been acting in her best interests. And she said when she complained to DAS about 
this it didn't act correctly and new solicitors weren't appointed (as she was told they would 
be). She said she was now significantly out of pocket and had to accept future damage to 
her property by the water company. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms H is concerned at the actions of the panel solicitors in this case and has said 
she doesn't believe they were acting in her best interests. However, as I think she's aware 
we're not able to consider the actions of her solicitors. Ms H might be able to complain to the 
Legal Ombudsman about these matters. 
What I can consider is whether there have been any problems by DAS in dealing with the 
insurance claim and whether it took appropriate action when Ms H contacted it about this. I 
can see that, in common with other legal expenses policies, hers only provides cover where 
a claim has reasonable prospects of success for the duration of the claim. And the definition 
of reasonable prospects includes that they must be at least 51%.
As DAS aren't themselves legally trained I think it was right that they sought advice on that 
from their panel solicitors. And their initial view was the claim did enjoy reasonable 
prospects. However, as that's an ongoing requirement during the lifetime of a claim, DAS is 
entitled to ask for prospects to be reassessed. Following receipt of an expert report (and 
follow up questions on this) counsel's opinion was that given the findings of the expert report 
the claim no longer enjoyed reasonable prospects of success.
I appreciate Ms H disagrees with the expert report. I can see that she's raised a number of 
questions including about the competence of the expert. But I can also see the panel 
solicitor's view was that the expert was suitably qualified and experienced and that neither 
they or counsel shared her concerns about the report. I also note that after the initial report 
further questions were agreed with Ms H and put to the expert to which he responded. And 
counsel's opinion having considered that information was the claim no longer had 
reasonable prospects.
Our general approach is that an insurer is entitled to rely on a properly written and reasoned 
legal opinion from a suitably qualified lawyer unless it's obviously wrong. I've read counsel's 
opinion on the case and I think the legal advice in this case met that test. So I don't think 
DAS did anything wrong in relying on it.  And as that meant Ms H's claim no longer met the 
terms of her policy DAS was entitled to stop funding it. However, I think it was right that it did 
then provide additional funding to see if a settlement could nevertheless be achieved.
Having said that, it's not in dispute DAS got things wrong when Ms H got in touch to raise 
concerns about the progress of her claim. DAS has accepted it didn't do enough to progress 
the concerns she raised in March. And it didn't properly respond to further contact she (and 
her broker) then made including a request for a change in panel solicitors. 
I understand Ms H believes if DAS had taken steps in response to her concerns then there 
would have been a different outcome to the claim. I don't think that's likely. In particular even 
if DAS had appointed an alternative panel firm the key reason why Ms H's claim no longer 
enjoyed reasonable prospects of success was because of an unsupportive expert report. A 
change of solicitors wouldn't have changed the position in relation to that. And for the 
reasons I've already explained I think DAS was entitled to rely on the legal advice that was 
informed by that report.  
As a result I can't say that more proactive steps by DAS would have led to a different 
outcome. And while I accept DAS's failure to take action here will have caused Ms H distress 
and inconvenience I think the £250 DAS has already offered (and which I understand has 
already been paid) does enough to recognise the impact on her of what it got wrong. 
My final decisionI've decided not to uphold this complaint because I think DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited has already done enough to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
James Park
Ombudsman