DRN-3419212
The complaint
Ms W complains about a loan provided to her by Oakbrook Finance limited, (Likely Loans) 
which she says was unaffordable.
What happened
Likely Loans provided Ms W with a loan of £2000 on 10 December 2016. The loan was to be 
repaid over 24 Monthly instalments of £122.14. If Ms W made each payment when it was 
due, shed pay £2931.36 in total. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in 1st March 2022. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
I can see Likely Loans asked for some information from Ms W before it approved the
loan. It asked for details of her annual income and her residential status. It says it also
checked Ms Ws credit file. It has shared what it says is a high-level overview of the
customers financial status upon application but adds that this represents just a small
proportion of the data it gathered. From what it has shared I can see it looked at the
number of accounts Ms W had, her credit balance, credit score and calculated a debt to
income ratio. From these checks combined Likely Loans concluded Ms W had enough
monthly disposable income to afford to repay the loan.
It has also provided a more detailed credit file with a search date of 29 October 2020 (so 
coming up for 4 years after the loan application). It has explained that it would have 
extracted detailed data like this from Ms Ws credit file at the time of the application, but it 
does not store this. However, it says this report shows the status of Ms Ws credit 
commitments that it would have seen at the time of the lending.
Ms W said her annual income was £18,000 and the loan purpose was captured as other. 
The high-level overview from Likely Loans credit check shows that Ms W had total debts of 
£7500 and these came from a hire purchase account and credit cards.
The lender says her credit file shows she was meeting all her credit commitments at the
time and it can approximate that she had monthly credit commitments of £361.10. Given
the October 2020 search date of the credit file and the fact it did not record the full data it
extracted as part of its credit check, I cant know whether Likely Loans knew this at the
time of the application.
However, that aside, based on the above, I dont think Likely Loans affordability checks
were proportionate. Ms W was applying for a loan over a term of 24 months and although 
the monthly repayment was low as a percentage of her income, Likely Loans hasnt shown it 
made any kind of estimate about what her total monthly expenditure might be. Given it was 
deciding if Ms W could sustainably afford to repay a loan over a two-year period, I think it 
needed to understand this. So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely 
have shown.
Ms W has recently provided some bank statements. Im not suggesting here that obtaining 
bank statements is the sort of check that Likely Loans should have done. But I think 
looking in particular at her bank statements would give me the best picture of what the 
lender should have seen.
I have looked through these statements and I can see that they are all dated for after the 
date Ms W took this loan. So, I havent been able to see what further checks might have 
shown the lender at the time it carried out its affordability assessment. Ms W has also not 
been able to provide our service with bank statements from before and around when she 
took out the loan either. 
I have also looked at an up to date credit report submitted by Ms W and can see the 
accounts that she held at the time she arranged this loan are reflective of the credit search 
carried out by Likely Loans at the time. I cant see any additional information that potentially 
Likely Loans would have uncovered if it had carried out further checks.  
So, in summary, Ms W has not so far provided bank statements from 3 months before and 
leading up to the loan application, only after it. So, I havent been able to see what Likely 
Loans would have most likely seen if it had carried out further checks. So, because of this, I 
am unable to safely conclude that Ms W was given a loan that was unaffordable for her. 
So, for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. Likely Loans did not respond. Ms Ws representatives 
responded and said it would pass the provisional decision onto her. But no further 
comments have been made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W has not made any new points for me to respond to and Likely Loans has not 
responded. So, as neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment 
on or that will change the outcome of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from 
my findings within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I do not uphold Ms 
Ws complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman