DRN-3133743
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finances offer of settlement for his claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 is insufficient. 
What happened
Mr R bought solar panels for his home in 2013. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Clydesdale, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr R into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Clydesdale accepted there had been a misrepresentation and made an offer of settlement 
that, in effect, would make the solar panels self-funding over the ten-year term of the loan.
Mr R was dissatisfied with this offer because he felt Clydesdale had overestimated the 
benefit of the solar panels and so the offer was insufficient. 
Our adjudicator felt the offer was fair and reasonable. Because a resolution couldnt be 
agreed the complaint has been passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clydesdale is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Clydesdale has accepted there was a misrepresentation so I just need to decide what 
Clydesdale must do to put things right. I have set this out below.
Ive taken on board Mr Rs comments. He says his Feed-In Tariff (FIT) income was only 
£4,116.30 by the end of the seventh year and would be £5,839.80 by the end of the ten 
years. Whereas Clydesdale has calculated the ten-year benefit of the solar panels to be 
£7,625.28. 
However, I can see that, in line with our approach to redress in cases like this, Clydesdale 
has calculated the benefit of the solar panels to include not just the FIT payments but also 
the electricity savings from using some of the electricity generated rather than buying it from 
the electricity grid. So, I think Clydesdales approach to calculating this is fair and 
reasonable. 
However, because a decision is required in this case, I set out below what Clydesdale must 
do to put things right. It should recalculate its offer in line with this.
Putting things right
Clydesdale should to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the known 
and assumed savings and income to Mr R from the solar panels over a ten-year period so 
Mr R pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits 
once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr R is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Clydesdale needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr R by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Clydesdale 
to restructure Mr Rs loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr R in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr R have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr R and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr R and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr R accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr R has settled the loan, Clydesdale should pay him the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr R has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Clydesdale and Clydesdale should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr R paid each month with the Clydesdale loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr R receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr R paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr R receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr R the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding over a ten-year period.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance should put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman