DRN-3920431
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited unfairly 
declined a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H submitted a claim to DAS for a legal nuisance / trespass over a piece of land 
they jointly own with a group of other residents. 
DAS initially accepted the claim and appointed a panel firm of solicitors. But on reviewing the 
case, the panel firm highlighted that the claim may not be covered due to it not meeting the 
policy definition of home and DAS agreed. So cover was withdrawn. 
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with this decision and raised a complaint. DAS maintained its 
rejection of the claim but acknowledged its poor service and offered £100 compensation to 
put things right. As they remained dissatisfied, Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to our 
service. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied DAS had applied the policy 
terms correctly and fairly, so she didnt think it needed to do anything more. 
Mr and Mrs disagreed. They say:
The definition for home falls within the home insurance section of the policy and 
there is no definition within the legal expenses section, so its not fair to rely on it.
Many developments are designed in a similar way to their own, and they dont 
believe the policy intention is to exclude common areas. Theyve provided policy 
terms for another policy which they say would cover this claim.
After requesting copies of DAS file, they found an internal email from a claims 
handler which said so would seem to be part of customers home and I can see 
where the customer is coming from with regards to land as it is on the deeds.
Mr and Mrs H have asked that their complaint be escalated to an ombudsman, so the case 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs legal expenses insurance policy says it will 
cover property protection defined as:
What is covered
We will cover the costs and expenses for your legal rights in a civil dispute relating to 
your principal home and holiday home, or personal possessions, that you own or are 
responsible for, following:
a legal nuisance (meaning any unlawful interference with the use or 
enjoyment of your land, or some right over, or in connection with it)
a trespass
What is not covered
Any claim relating to:
any building or land other than your principal home or holiday home.
The policy defines the word home as:
The private residence, the areas within its boundaries and its
outbuildings, all used for domestic purposes, and any business purposes
we have agreed, at the address shown in your policy schedule.
Mr and Mrs H say this definition is for the home insurance section, not the legal expenses 
section  so it shouldnt be applied. Ive looked at the policy terms and I can see that the 
home insurance definitions say that they apply to the whole policy booklet when appearing in 
bold print. Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs Hs comments about the different sections of her 
policy, all sections form part of the policy booklet so it follows that the definitions would apply 
to all of them. If they didnt, Im persuaded that the policy would set out which specific 
sections they apply to.
That said, home doesnt appear in bold within the legal expenses section, so this specific 
definition doesnt apply in this context. So its irrelevant here.
As there is no policy definition within the legal expenses section, I must consider what a 
reasonable laypersons understanding of home would be. Id consider this to be the 
building or land on which a person resides. Im not persuaded that a separate piece of land 
to the property and which is owned jointly with several other households would reasonably 
fall within the definition of home. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Hs comments that this land joins onto their garden. But given that it 
is jointly owned with other residents, Im not persuaded this land would be considered their 
home.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Hs comments that the policy doesnt intend to exclude these 
types of claims. But I dont agree. Its not uncommon for a legal expenses policy to limit 
cover to property solely owned by the policyholder and to not cover claims which would 
benefit people that arent insured under the policy. For example, common areas of a flat 
block are often outside of the policy scope. I appreciate Mr and Mrs H have provided a copy 
of another policy document, but Im not persuaded this is relevant here as Im only looking at 
the terms and conditions of the policy they hold. The fact that another insurer might cover 
such claims isnt relevant to whether this policy does.
Ive also thought about the internal comments made by DAS claims handler. To be clear, its 
not my role to make a decision on whether the claim is covered. Its my role to decide 
whether DAS has come to a fair and reasonable decision on whether the claim is covered. 
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied DAS decision to decline the claim was 
correct and fair. 
If Mr and Mrs H wish to accept DAS offer of £100 for the failings in the service it provided, 
they should contact DAS directly to do so.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman