DRN-2173331
The complaint
 Ms A complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited held her liable for a car 
accident that wasnt her fault. She also complains about poor service when she claimed 
under her policy, and that her data was given to third parties without her permission.
What happened
 Ms A was involved in a car accident in April 2019 and made a claim under her car 
insurance. The other driver blamed Ms A for the accident and the two insurance companies 
took the case to arbitration. Ms A sold her car in or around June 2019, before it had been 
repaired.
In September 2019, an arbitration company decided that Ms A was responsible for the 
accident. Markerstudy subsequently discovered that it hadnt submitted evidence in Ms As 
defence. It didnt tell Ms A about the arbitration decision until she called for an update in 
December 2019. However, Markerstudy said that if it had provided this evidence, liability for 
the accident would likely have been shared between Ms A and the other driver. It also said it 
didnt pass her personal information to any third parties.
Markerstudy offered Ms A £300 compensation for its poor service and communication. Ms A 
didnt accept this. She says her insurance premiums have increased because she was held 
responsible for the accident, so she complained to this service.
Our investigator reviewed Ms As complaint. She explained that it wasnt this services role to 
decide who was responsible for the accident. Instead, wed look at whether Markerstudy had 
handled Ms As claim fairly. Our investigator felt that Markerstudy hadnt done this. She 
recommended Markerstudy pay Ms A £360 in lieu of repairs, calculated as half what it 
wouldve cost to repair Ms As car had it not been sold, plus the £300 it had already offered.
Markerstudy accepted this recommendation. Ms A didnt, so the case was passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the 
accident. Instead, our role in this type of complaint is to consider if the insurer acted in line 
with the policy terms and made a fair and reasonable decision.
Under the terms and conditions of Ms As policy, Markerstudy can take over, defend or settle 
a claim as it sees fit (General Conditions, paragraph 4). This is common in car insurance 
policies and Markerstudy doesnt need Ms A to agree this. This also means Markerstudy can 
make a decision Ms A doesnt agree with. If it does, I can decide if that decision was fair and 
reasonable.
In this case, the other driver claimed Ms A was responsible for causing the accident, so their 
insurer disputed liability with Markerstudy. Ms A provided a comprehensive statement to 
Markerstudy about the accident, including photographs of the accident site and the two cars. 
Ive read Ms As statement and studied the photographs.
However, Markerstudy failed to provide this evidence when the case was sent to an 
independent arbitration company in August 2019. Ive read the arbitration decision from 
September 2019. It says: The defendant [Ms A] has not offered a version of events on the 
arbitration portal The defendant has not uploaded any additional evidence for us to 
consider. Given the evidence available to it, the arbitration company found Ms A 100% 
responsible for this incident.
Markerstudy accepts that it uploaded its evidence to the arbitration portal incorrectly. This 
meant the arbitration company didnt consider Ms As statement before it made its decision. 
Markerstudy says this would likely have been a 50/50 split liability with the third-party 
insurer. Ms A doesnt accept this.
I understand Ms As strong feelings about this. But given the conflicting accounts by Ms A 
and the other driver  and the fact there were no independent witnesses, CCTV or dashcam 
footage  Im satisfied that Markerstudys position is reasonable.
Markerstudy says if liability had been split, the claim would not have been settled non fault, 
even if the correct evidence had been provided the incident would still have been recorded 
as a fault claim with the No Claims Bonus disallowed. This is because a claim is considered 
fault when the policyholders insurer doesnt recover its full outlay from a third party. In this 
case only half of the outlay was recovered.
This is in line with Ms As policy. Section K says, If you make a claim or if a claim is made 
against you for an event which you may not consider to be your fault and we have to make a 
payment this will affect your No Claim Discount unless we can recover our outlay in full from 
the responsible party. 
Ms A says that shes had to declare a fault claim on her new insurance policy and her 
premiums have increased as a result. But given the policy terms, and thinking about what 
wouldve happened if Markerstudy had provided evidence to the arbitration company, Im 
satisfied that Ms A would still have to declare his as a fault claim. So I dont agree that 
Markerstudys mistake has caused her to pay more for her premiums.
Overall, I find that Markerstudys key failure here was that it did not provide the arbitration 
company with Ms As account of the accident. This resulted in Ms A being held fully liable for 
the accident rather than jointly. But the claim amount is reasonably low, so I think the 
difference is unlikely to have an impact on her insurance premiums. 
As set out above, I dont hold Markerstudy responsible for the increase in Ms As insurance 
premiums, but I do think it should compensate her for its failure to provide evidence to the 
arbitration company, and for failing to tell Ms A about this for three months. Markerstudy has 
offered Ms A £300 for this. I think this is a fair offer. 
Theres one other point for me to consider. Ms A sold her car before her claim was settled so 
it was not repaired. Her excess was £850, so she wouldve had to pay that towards the 
repairs. Those repair costs were about the same  so Ms A hadnt had the repairs made 
under the policy. However, if liability had been shared, as Markerstudy says would have 
happened, Ms A might have been able to recover half of the excess from the third-party 
insurer. A July 2019 engineers report estimated the cost of repairs to Ms As car as £719.85, plus 
VAT. So, Ms A wouldve paid £720 towards repairs rather than £850, and might have been 
able to recover half of that (£360) from the third-party insurer. Our investigator proposed 
Markerstudy pay this to Ms A, and Markerstudy agreed. In the circumstances, I think this is a 
fair settlement. Markerstudy should add interest to this amount from the date of the 
engineers report to the date of settlement.
Finally, Ms A believes that Markerstudy has shared her personal information with other 
companies without her permission. Markerstudy denies this, and I havent seen any 
evidence of this when reviewing Ms As complaint.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. I order Markerstudy Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Ms A:
£360, plus interest at 8% simple a year from 1 July 2019 to the date of settlement, to 
reflect the amount she might have recovered from the third-party insurer in the case 
of shared liability; and 
if it has not already paid this, £300 for its poor handling of her claim and poor 
communications*.
*Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited should do this within 28 days of us telling it Ms 
As accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, it should add interest at a rate of 8% 
simple per year from the date of my final decision to the date it makes payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman