DRN-1744183
 
The complaint
Mr W has made a number of complaints against NewDay Ltd (ND) surrounding a variety of 
service issues
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr W and ND, so there is no need for me to repeat them again. Instead I will 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned something its not 
because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its relevant to the issues I need to 
deal with.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
Our service doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, direct that they 
change their processes, or punish them. That is for the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). We cant give businesses direction on policy or procedure. We can only say 
whether it is a policy or procedure which is being applied fairly and reasonably to all their 
customers. The FCA takes a principles-based approach to conduct regulation and lets 
businesses choose how they incorporate those principles into the way they deal with 
customers. This is reflected in the remit the FCA has given this service under the Dispute 
Rules in the FCA Handbook. What we recommend however can influence how businesses 
review their policies.
In cases where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, then I work on 
what is known as the balance of probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely 
to have happened in the light of the evidence which is available, and the wider 
circumstances of the case.  
In summary Mr W complains about many issues which I shall deal with under separate 
headings to aid clarity. ND upheld his complaint in part and made two payments to him of 
£25 and £125 in compensation for his trouble and upset. Mr W didnt think that was enough 
and had initially asked for £25,000.
Executive Complaints handler lying and ignoring e-mails - I can find no evidence to support 
the allegation that ND Executive Complaints handler lied. I note that he was on annual leave 
from 25 August 2019 and unable to respond to Mr W during that period, which I do not class 
as unreasonable.The £20.00 payment on the 29 July 2019  ND have clarified that this payment was not by 
BACS but by way of faster payment, and have confirmed they have changed their reference 
to this for the future. That is reasonable.
Covering up other complaints - I can find no evidence to support this suggestion, although I 
can appreciate that it was Mr Ws perception. 
Communication by telephone  ND made the decision not to accept telephone calls from Mr 
W. Their reasoning it seems was that there had been some difficulties with telephone 
communication leading ND to request that future communication was either by post or e-
mail. It is always unfortunate when a business feels the need to restrict communication by 
telephone, but I understand that sometimes that is necessary. As ND provided an adequate 
alternative I cannot say they have therefore acted unfairly.
I also note that Mr W had requested two named individuals within Senior Management call 
him back but that was not actioned. ND explained that it is not within their process for their 
customers to speak directly with Senior Management, as they employ experienced Senior 
Complaints handlers for that purpose. That is a reasonable approach and I cant say that it is 
unfair.
Not corresponding by e-mail - on 2 August ND told Mr W they were unable to respond by e-
mail as they did not have that facility and did not consider it secure. ND say that was correct 
although their Executive Complaints Team are able to send e-mails in exceptional 
circumstances. As such ND said no incorrect information was provided by the advisor Mr W 
spoke with. I am satisfied that this is NDs email policy, and therefore the advisors statement 
reflected the general policy of ND.
Complaints handlers attitude on 5 August 2019  ND have recognised and accepted that 
there was an initial error made in keying in Mr Ws date of birth which was quickly corrected 
but had led to additional security questions. They accept that call and the subsequent call 
when passed to a manger could have been handled better, and in consequence ND have 
given feedback and further training has been provided to the two individuals. I think that is a 
reasonable.
Complaints handlers attitude on 12 August 2019  ND have recognised and accepted that 
the call could have been handled better and explained why. They have apologised for their 
poor service and I think that is fair.
Marbles account August payment - ND accept that they told Mr W that the payment due on 9 
August 2019 would be removed but failed to action it, leading to their Collections Team 
calling him the following day. ND apologised, refunded the late payment fee and confirmed 
no adverse entries were recorded on Mr Ws credit file. Again that is fair.
Call on 21 August 2019  ND have accepted that the collections agent and manager were 
unable to locate Mr Ws account and explained why in the absence of that information they 
were unable to contact the Executive Complaints team. They have also apologised for their 
poor service and provided feedback to the two individuals which I think is fair.
Payment Holiday  a payment holiday was agreed on 29 October 2019 until February 2020. 
But there was a balance of £86.14 on Mr Ws statement of 15 October 2019 (due on 11 
November) which he did not make. ND said that this was the reason it showed as overdue 
on his online account. ND also assured Mr W that he hadnt needed to make that payment or 
any other payment during the payment holiday, and that they hadnt reported the missed 
payment to the credit reference agencies. ND also said they didnt offer the payment holiday 
earlier because Mr W had an active complaint with this service during which time they had removed the payment due and interest from his account. They said they had also put Mr W 
in touch with their Customer Care Team who were able to consider the most appropriate 
option to meet Mr Ws needs, and had discussed a reduced payment plan. But Mr W had not 
been keen on that as he had been told it would be reflected on his credit file. So, I think all of 
this demonstrates that ND acted in a fair, positive and sympathetic way to Mr W.
ICO (Information Commissioner's Office)  Mr W has raised issues concerning security 
information procedures and the retention of information by ND. Such issues in my view fall 
outside the remit of this service and if Mr W wishes to pursue them he is able to do so 
directly with the ICO.
Security Information - Mr W was concerned about the level of information required when he 
emailed ND and they have explained that the requested security information depends on the 
nature of the enquiry and if it is general in nature none may be necessary. I think this is a fair 
and reasonable response.
Incorrect balance showing  Mr W was concerned that the balances showing on his 
accounts online were inaccurate. ND checked and confirmed that they were accurate and 
invited him to check his credit report. Mr W has not taken this point further and so I make the 
assumption that the matter has now resolved.
Reducing the credit limit  ND have explained that when a payment holiday is in place 
account records are frozen which prevents ND from updating certain information such as 
credit limits. I understand Mr W feels that this has had an adverse impact upon him but Ive 
seen no evidence that that is so.
Contradictory Information  ND accept that there was a contradiction in their letter of 
24 December concerning Mr W being told he was not able to communicate further with the 
author of the final response letter. ND accept that was an error, since they had specifically 
invited further comment or questions, and upheld that element of the complaint crediting Mr 
Ws account with £25.00.
So, I have found there to have been some clear failures in service here as I have identified 
above, but which ND have already accepted and acknowledged. However some of the 
complaints I have found to be not made out, as although Mr W feels he has been treated 
unfairly, objectively I cant say he has. So, having said that, I think the decision I have to 
make distils down to what the correct amount of compensation ought to be. ND paid Mr W 
£125 and then a further £25. 
In some complaints, the problems a customer encounters dont just affect them financially, 
and that is the case here. Those problems can lead to the customer being caused some 
trouble and upset and it is only right that the business should think about what it could do to 
put matters right. But the trouble and upset caused needs to be balanced and measured 
against  the ups and downs of daily life in dealing with other people, businesses and 
organisations, and recognising that that can be inconvenient at times.
Ive also considered the level of awards this service has made for distress and 
inconvenience in similar cases, and putting all of this into the balance I think what ND have 
paid is fair and reasonable. And I think it is enough to put matters right.
So, although Mr W will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say ND has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decisionND has already paid £150 to settle this complaint, and that is fair and reasonable. So my 
final decision is that I dont require ND to do anything else.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against NewDay Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman