DRN-1700525
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) wont provide him with a 
brand new iphone following the loss of own device. 
What happened
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr T and Assurant so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think its relevant to the issues. 
However in summary it is this; 
Mr T made a claim to Assurant on his mobile phone insurance policy. The claim was 
accepted and he was sent a replacement refurbished device. Mr T said the replacement was 
of poor cosmetic quality and so the next day he accepted a doorstep exchange 
replacement.  Mr T then notified Assurant that he was unhappy with the second replacement 
and so Assurant offered him £335 cash or another replacement.  Mr T said he wanted a new 
phone in replacement. Mr T also took the second replacement to an Apple store and had it 
tested. The results showed it was not fit for purpose. So Mr T told Assurant that their offer 
wasnt enough and said he wanted a new replacement phone or £479 cash plus the 
insurance excess of £75 refunded, £39 for a new case and £25 for the costs incurred in 
dealing with the complaint.
Assurant said there was nothing wrong with their replacement phone and therefore they 
were complying with the terms of the contract. They also said that their offer of £335 was 
reasonable and they werent upholding his complaint..
Mr T was unhappy with Assurants response and so brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into it but didnt think Assurant had acted unfairly in providing 2 
replacements because that was in line with the terms of the policy. And she said that the 
cash offer of £335 was reasonable having regard to the market price for used iphones like 
Mr Ts. But she thought that Assurant should offer Mr T a further £50 to take account of the 
costs he incurred and time spent trying to resolve matters.
Neither Mr T nor Assurant agreed, and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate. I will consider whether Assurant acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr T. I aim to address all relevant points with a view to 
reaching a fair and reasonable decision based on the evidence before me. I take into account both sides views.  But, where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
then I have to come to a decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, I consider 
what is more likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances of the case. 
The starting point in this complaint is the terms and conditions of the policy Mr T had with 
Assurant. It was not a new for old policy, rather it specifically provided Mr T with a 
replacement device which could be pre-owned. So, Assurant have not acted unfairly in not 
giving Mr T a new replacement device.
I have considered that Mr T received 2 replacement devices which he was not happy with. 
Clearly I have not seen them and so cannot comment on their cosmetic appearance but 
what I have seen is the Apple report which is very clear. The replacement phone Assurant 
gave Mr T was not fit for its purpose, and so it follows that they ought not to have sent it to 
him. But they have offered Mr T a cash alternative of £335. This has to be viewed against 
the cost of a new replacement phone of £479. In my view £479 would be too much as it 
would effectively be giving Mr T a new for old replacement. 
Our investigator looked at the cost of used iphones and found that they were on average 
less than that offered by Assurant. That means their offer was fair. I appreciate that Mr T 
feels his original phone had the benefit of an apple warranty which he has now lost, but his 
policy didnt cover that. Had he had a new for old policy it would have.
So, the issue boils down to whether Assurant have made a fair offer to Mr T or whether it 
should be increased in line with our investigators view. I know Mr T feels that he should get 
much more, but I agree with our investigator that the excess is properly payable, and the 
phone case is not covered under the policy. Assurant think that the additional £50 the 
investigator suggested is not fair because they offered Mr T £335 before he took the second 
replacement to be tested. But I think that was a reasonable step to take, which was borne 
out by the result itself which proved the phone was not fit for purpose.
Putting things right
So although Mr T and Assurant will probably be disappointed with my decision, I have come 
to the same conclusion as the investigator. I think the offer £335 cash plus £50 
compensation is fair and reasonable and in line with the awards this service would make for 
distress and inconvenience in circumstances like these. And I think it is enough to put 
matters right. So Im upholding this complaint.
My final decision
Assurant has already made an offer to pay £335 to Mr T under the terms of the policy and I 
think that is fair. I also think Assurant should pay Mr T £50 to settle the complaint.
So my decision is that Assurant should pay £50 to Mr T to settle this complaint in addition to 
the £335 for his mobile phone claim.
For the reasons set out above I uphold the complaint against Assurant General Insurance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman