DRN-3358532
The complaint
Mrs and Mr R complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) failed to 
promptly refund two disputed payments from their credit card account.
What happened
On 3 May 2020, Mrs and Mr R tried to make an online payment of €41.90 (£36.93) twice. 
Each time, they received an error message saying the transaction could not be completed. 
However, the two payments came out of their credit card account.
Mrs R called Halifax on 7 May 2020. Mrs R says she asked the person she spoke to if she 
could complete an online form, but she was told she had to speak to someone in the 
disputed transaction team directly and was placed in a queue. After 30 minutes, the call was 
terminated. Mrs R called again and was placed back in the queue. She waited an hour and 
20 minutes before she ended the call.
Mrs R complained to Halifax on the same day.
Mrs R later found an online form she could complete to dispute the transactions  and she 
completed this form in June 2020. Mrs and Mr R received a secure email from Halifax on 
29 July 2020, which they replied to on 3 August 2020. Mrs R emailed Halifax on the same 
day to ask it to confirm that it had received her reply and the evidence shed provided. She 
chased them a week later but received no reply or acknowledgement.
Mrs R referred her complaint to our service at the end of August 2020, as shed heard 
nothing more from Halifax.
On or around 22 December 2020, Halifax called Mrs R. It upheld her complaint and agreed 
to refund the two payments of £36.93  it refunded the money to their credit card account on 
22 December 2020. It also apologised and offered to pay Mrs and Mr R an extra £75 for its 
poor service, which Mrs R accepted. Halifax made a payment of £75 to Mrs and Mr Rs 
credit card account on 22 December 2020.
However, Mrs R says she was told Halifax would send her an email or letter to confirm the 
contents of the call, and she says this didnt happen. She also says Halifax only paid them 
£50, not £75, and she wants it to pay them an additional £100.
One of our investigators thought Halifax had paid Mrs and Mr R fair compensation for any 
service failings, and didnt think it needed to do more.
Mrs and Mr R disagree with our investigators conclusions and have asked that an 
ombudsman make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Halifax has sent us a copy of Mrs and Mr Rs credit card account statement dated 
19 January 2021. It shows Halifax refunded £73.86 on 22 December 2020 (the two 
payments of £36.93) and made an additional payment of £75 on the same day. Im therefore 
satisfied Halifax has paid Mrs and Mr R an extra £75 as it said it would.
Second, Ive seen a letter from Halifax to Mrs R dated 22 December 2020. And the address 
matches the address Mrs and Mr R gave us when they first referred their complaint to our 
service. I dont know why Mrs and Mr R didnt receive this letter. However, even if they 
didnt, I dont think Halifax needs to pay them any additional compensation. I think the 
amount Halifax has already paid Mrs and Mr R is fair compensation for any trouble and 
upset caused. And I think it would be unreasonable to tell Halifax to pay them an extra £100 
because they didnt receive a letter or email confirming the contents of a call, during which 
Mrs R accepted an offer to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2020.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman