DRN-3248982
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as C, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has acted unfairly in 
requiring it to close its client bank account. 
Mr C, who is a partner in C, brings the complaint on Cs behalf. 
What happened
C is a property investment business. In 2010, it opened a client account. 
In 2017, Lloyds informed C that it wasnt eligible for a client account, under the anti-money 
laundering legislation in place at that time. However, before the account was closed, the 
bank said the legislation had changed again, making C eligible. 
In 2019, the bank once more told C that the client account would have to close, due to 
further legislative changes. They said that C would have to open a large number of individual 
designated client accounts instead of its existing one account. 
In August 2020, the bank issued a formal closure notice for Cs client account. C 
complained, saying it was unreasonable not to let it keep the same account number. The 
bank didnt uphold the complaint, although they did pay compensation of £100 because they 
couldnt find the original client account application.
C referred its complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into things, but didnt 
recommend upholding the complaint. He said that Lloyds had legitimate reasons for 
requiring the closure, gave the required amount of notice and had acted reasonably in 
offering to help the partnership adjust to the new arrangement. 
Meanwhile, the bank continued to discuss matters with C to try and find a way forward. In 
July 2021, Lloyds came up with a new suggestion. They said that theyd learnt in their 
discussions with C that Cs client account was holding money on behalf of clients of another 
company connected to C, which Ill refer to as P. P is understood to operate a property 
management business. 
Lloyds said Mr C could open new accounts for P, including client accounts for the receipt of 
Ps clients income. Cs existing client account could then be converted to a normal business 
current account, which could continue to receive rental income owed to C from its own 
property portfolio. Our investigator thought this was a fair offer. 
C didnt accept the banks suggestion and asked for an ombudsman to look at things again. 
Mr C didnt give any reasons, except to point out that the bank had previously told him it was 
impossible to keep the existing account number, but was now saying it was possible. 
In January 2022, Lloyds issued a new formal closure notice, with a deadline of 
21 March 2022. This deadline has now been extended to 21 April 2022.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for essentially the 
same reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr C, so Id like to explain why. 
As our investigator pointed out, anti-money laundering regulations place stringent obligations 
on regulated financial businesses. Its up to firms like Lloyds to put policies in place to 
ensure they comply with this legislation. In this case, Im satisfied that they had legitimate 
reasons for requiring the account to be closed or operated differently. 
Banks are also entitled to decide what accounts they offer to which customers, as long as 
they dont act unreasonably. I realise that it is very inconvenient for C for the account into 
which many tenants pay rent to be closed or re-categorised. But that doesnt mean Lloyds 
are obliged to keep it open indefinitely, particularly if they consider they are required by 
legislation to close it. Ultimately, they are entitled to make a commercial decision to close it if 
they wish. I wouldnt interfere with such a decision unless I felt they had exercised their 
discretion unfairly, or failed to give fair notice of the intention to close. I dont consider either 
applies in this case. 
The terms and conditions applying to Cs client account require the bank to give two months 
notice to close. Lloyds have actually given a lot more notice than this, as they have been 
discussing the matter with Mr C for some time. I can see they put matters on hold for a 
period, although they have recently issued a new formal notice of closure.  
It may be worth explaining that clients in this context are not tenants. They are property 
owners on whose behalf rent is collected. Its not clear to me whether C collects rent on 
behalf of clients or not. Similarly, I havent seen any evidence as to whether Cs existing 
client account is actually collecting any client money, or just rent from Cs own tenants. If it is 
purely collecting the latter, I see no reason why a client account would be necessary. 
I note the bank firmly believes Cs client account is collecting client money on behalf of the 
clients of P. Neither side has provided evidence on this point to me. But I dont think I need 
to know the nature of all transactions into the account to make a decision on this complaint. I 
say this because it is my view that, in either case, Lloyds are still entitled to give notice to 
close the account. 
Mr C hasnt told us why he doesnt think Lloyds July 2021 offer is acceptable. In my opinion, 
it seems a fair way forward to meet the banks requirements, whilst minimising 
inconvenience to C. It is my understanding that C would only have to redirect any payments 
that are not amounts due to C. All payments representing rent paid to C on properties it 
owns could continue unaltered into the account, which would be redesignated a business 
current account. This seems fair, as it would not be holding any client money. 
Lloyds paid C £100 in compensation because it couldnt find the original application form for 
the client account. These things happen unfortunately over time but I think this 
compensation is fair.I do agree with Mr C that the bank have contradicted themselves about whether the existing 
client account can be converted to a different form of account or not. This was what Mr C 
was asking in 2017 and he was told it was impossible then (although it later proved 
unnecessary in any case). I have reconfirmed with Lloyds, who have assured me that it is 
definitely possible to convert the account. But they will of course need assurance that no 
client money is going into it. 
Lloyds havent explained their earlier miscommunication. But they did tell Mr C it was 
possible to convert the account in July 2021 and he still declined to accept their proposal. I 
dont think that C has suffered a loss as a result of the confusion, so Im not going to award 
any compensation for it. 
This is a case where the bank have changed their stance over the course of the events. But I 
consider this has happened, because of genuine efforts on the part of the bank to 
understand their customer and come up with a workable and less inconvenient solution. Its 
up to Mr C if he now wishes to engage with the bank to resolve matters or not. But Im not 
going to instruct the bank to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman