DRN-4154722
The complaint
Miss E complains about the quality of the car she acquired through a hire purchase 
agreement with Blue Motor Finance Ltd (Blue Motor). 
What happened
Miss E entered into a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor in October 2021 to acquire a 
used vehicle. The vehicle was around five years old and had travelled around 77,000 miles 
when supplied. 
She began to have concerns almost immediately and reported to the dealership that the 
gearstick seemed to be rattling when she collected the car. They told her this was normal, 
but she took the car shortly after to an independent garage to be checked out. They found 
several faults, and when it was returned to the supplying dealership shortly afterwards, they 
carried out some repairs/replacements to the brakes and tyres. This was in early December 
2021. 
Later in December 2021, a warning message occurred in the car, and then on 24 December 
2021, the car broke down on the motorway. In January 2022 Miss E complained to the 
supplying dealership as faults and the car going into Limp Mode were still happening. She 
also complained to Blue Motor at the same time. 
Blue Motor said in February 2022 that they were instructing an independent report on the 
car, but before they got chance to arrange this, the car broke down again on 23 February 
2022, and was recovered by the RAC who provided a diagnostics report to Miss E. On 2 
March 2022 the dealer inspected the car again and confirmed a different fault, and then on 
10 March 2022 an independent engineer carried out an inspection and produced a report. 
This report confirmed that Miss E had reported multiple break downs, the rattling noise, and 
multiple warning lights. It also said that the third party garage whod looked at the car had 
provided 11 pages of fault codes, and that the dealership advised they had carried out some 
minor repairs of the brakes and the rattling had been looked at. 
It went on to say that the dealership told them when they arrived to inspect the car that there 
was a concern about the exhaust temperature sensor. The report says they did not find any 
significant concerns, and once the sensor had been replaced, which they deemed to be a 
wear and tear part, they didnt see any reason why the car wouldnt be fit for purpose.  
On 13 March 2022, Miss E told Blue Motor shed like to reject the car, and on 18 March 2022 
Blue Motor sent their final response letter to the complaint, explaining that as the 
independent report had identified the same fault with the exhaust gas sensor as the 
dealership, and the dealership were repairing this, they were closing the complaint. 
On 17 May 2022, the car broke down again and was recovered by the RAC. They again 
provided a report including fault codes to Miss E. Miss E referred her complaint to our 
service therefore on 18 May 2022 as Blue Motor said there was nothing more they could do.
The complaint was investigated by an Investigator here and an initial view was provided in 
August 2022 which did not uphold the complaint. The business accepted this but Miss E 
asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision as she didnt agree. 
Before an Ombudsman could make a final decision, Miss E sent in a recall notice sent to her 
by the manufacturer of the car, explaining it outlined some issues which she felt were linked 
to her complaint, and asked us to review the case. 
The investigator therefore looked at the case again. They said that the recall notice did 
indicate some problems with the exhaust system, but they didnt say the recall notice was 
connected with the faults Miss E had been suffering with. They said the recall notice might 
indicate further issues with the car but focused more on the originally provided evidence. 
The second RAC report was shared again with Blue Motor, as the investigator had concerns 
that it highlighted the same faults still present after the repairs had been completed. Blue 
Motor confirmed they had seen the report, but it didnt change their view. 
The investigator then sent a new view on the case in March 2023, upholding the complaint. 
They felt that the same issues with the car going into limp mode were still being identified in 
May 2022, after the repairs had been carried out. As such, they concluded that either the 
repairs had failed, or there was a further issue which hadnt been identified or repaired with 
the car, causing it to go into limp mode and breakdown. As such, they felt it was fair for Miss 
E to be able to reject the car. 
Miss E accepted this view, but Blue Motor didnt. They said that they didnt understand how 
the outcome had changed following a review of the case due to the recall notice, when the 
investigator had said it wasnt possible to say that the issue in the recall notice was 
connected with the faults. They also included testimony from the supplying dealership, which 
said that an RAC report isnt indicating faults, its only showing tests that the diagnostic 
machine has run, and the report only carries out suspected diagnostics while the patrol 
person is with the car. 
They also said a third party garage report could not be relied upon, as the garage may be 
hoping to benefit from any repairs they say are needed. The case has been passed to me to 
make a final decision on this basis. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator did in their 
last view, and for broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, 
its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint, Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Miss E was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means we can look into 
complaints about it.
This complaint has been over complicated by the parties involved seemingly not getting to 
the bottom of the problems Miss E has raised. From December 2021 to May 2022, Miss E 
has suffered from repeated occasions when the car has gone into limp mode, and/or broken 
down. Miss E has got an independent garage to look at the car in January 2022. Theyve identified 
concerns with the timing chain, the engine going into limp mode, the power steering having 
an intermittent problem, the headlamps having an intermittent problem, and issues with the 
exhaust system including the temperature sensor. 
The supplying dealership and an independent engineer have identified the problem with an 
exhaust temperature sensor and replaced it. However, when the problems have continued 
after this, Blue Motor have said that by then it was more than six months since they supplied 
the car, so Miss E would need to prove the fault was present or developing at point of sale, 
and they couldnt help anymore. 
This isnt correct. The faults Miss E has described and provided evidence for had been 
occurring from just a few weeks after she took delivery of the car. Due to delays with repairs 
and diagnosis, by the time she broke down again in May 2022, it was over six months since 
she had acquired the car. 
But Im not persuaded that this was likely to be an entirely different fault causing the 
breakdowns. Its much more likely that this was the same problem she had been suffering 
since the beginning of her agreement, which hasnt been resolved by replacing the 
temperature sensor in March 2022. There were several issues identified by the independent 
garage in January 2022. Many of these same issues were identified in the RAC report in 
February 2022. And after the repairs in March 2022, many of the same issues were 
identified by the RAC again in May 2022. 
Blue Motor and the supplying dealership have said that the RAC reports dont indicate actual 
faults, and the independent garage might have been producing a report in the hope of 
getting repair business. But neither party have commented on the fact that Miss Es car still 
wasnt working properly, and what actually might have been causing this.  
Miss E had been raising the same issues with Blue Motor and the supplying dealership for 
several months, and its most likely that they have failed to diagnose the problem and repair 
the car adequately. 
In March 2022, the independent report organised by Blue Motor had highlighted a fault with 
the exhaust temperature sensor, and at this stage, I feel it was reasonable for Blue Motor to 
have this repaired, rather than to allow Miss E to reject the car. Whilst the supplying 
dealership had tried to repair other issues previously, this was the first time concerns had 
been raised with Blue Motor, and I think its fair therefore that they had their one chance to 
repair the car at this point. 
But once they had taken this opportunity for their one attempt to repair the vehicle, and the 
problems continued, Miss E was within her rights under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA) to reject the vehicle if further faults occurred which made the car of unsatisfactory 
quality. Its clear to me from her description of the problems she suffered when breaking 
down in May 2022, alongside the RAC report produced, that she was still suffering the same 
issues that had by then been ongoing for approaching six months. 
I still dont think its clear what these issues with the car were/are, as there has been no 
successful diagnosis of the problems the car is having. But I am satisfied that a problem 
which is causing intermittent limp mode in the car and repeated breakdowns is one which 
indicates the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
The problems have begun within two months of Miss E acquiring the car and have continued 
intermittently for the following five months. At this point in May 2022, and concerned for her 
safety after a further breakdown, Miss E has told us that shes stopped using the vehicle. And Blue Motor have said that she needs to prove the faults were present or developing at 
point of sale. 
I am satisfied that Miss E has proved the faults exist and given Blue Motor the chance to 
diagnose and repair them. I am also satisfied that the faults make the vehicle of 
unsatisfactory quality. As such, Miss E is within her rights under the CRA to reject the car.  
I dont think that the argument presented by Blue Motor or the supplying dealership after the 
investigator her gave them an uphold view has any weight. They have focused on the recall 
notice, but the investigator has been clear in their view that the recall notice persuaded them 
to reconsider the case, but that it was the existing evidence which persuaded them that their 
original view needed to be changed, and they should uphold the case. 
I agree with this assessment of the circumstances. Ideally, there would be a clear report 
showing what the faults were and what needed to be done to fix them. In this instance, there 
isnt such evidence. However, its clear that there is a fault or faults causing repeated 
breakdowns and the car going into limp mode, and neither Blue Motor nor the supplying 
dealership have provided any plausible evidence about what is causing these. As such, I am 
upholding this complaint that the car is of unsatisfactory quality, and I am directing Blue 
Motor to process a rejection of the car as follows. 
Putting things right
I instruct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to carry out the following in relation to this agreement:
- End the agreement with nothing further to pay. 
- Collect the car at no cost to Miss E
- Refund Miss Es deposit paid of £1,200. 
- Refund Miss E 10% of any monthly payments made on the agreement from the date 
the car was supplied to the 23 February 2022, and also 10% on any payments made 
between 23 March 2022 and 17 May 2022. This is to recognise the impaired use she 
was suffering with the car during these periods when still using it. 
- Refund all monthly payments made by Miss E from 17 May 2022 onwards, as she 
was unable to use the car. 
- Pay Miss E £200 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to her by the 
faulty car. 
- Remove any adverse data caused by this agreement from Miss Es credit file.
For all the refunded payments above, Blue Motor should also add 8% simple interest 
from the date the payments were made until the date they are refunded. 
 If Blue Motor considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss E how much its taken off. It 
should also give Miss E a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenues & Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint and Blue Motor Finance Ltd must put things right as described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman