DRN-3805853
The complaint
Ms W complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank treated her unfairly 
when dealing with her credit card account. 
What happened
Ms W held a credit card account with Tesco Bank. Ms W raised a complaint about Tesco 
Banks decision to close her accounts, including her credit card account. Ms W asked that 
whilst her concerns were looked into by Tesco Bank and our service that collection activity 
be paused on her credit card account.  After initially declining to apply a hold, Tesco Bank 
agreed to a hold in July 2021. Then in August 2021, it agreed to extend this hold until 
October 2021.
Ms W says that whilst her account was on hold, she received numerous calls and letters 
from Tesco Bank about her outstanding balance. Ms W says Tesco Bank was harassing her 
and this was affecting her mental health.
Tesco Bank looked into Ms Ws complaint and issued a final response in September 2021. 
In this response Tesco Bank explained the timeline of events, and that it had applied the 
necessary hold to Ms Ws credit card account. It said its contact with Ms W was reasonable 
and it didnt find it had treated her unfairly. 
Dissatisfied with Tesco Banks response, Ms W referred her complaint to our service. An 
investigator reviewed Ms Ws concerns and found that Tesco Bank had treated Ms W 
reasonably.
Ms W remained unhappy with how she had been treated by Tesco Bank and asked for an 
ombudsman to review her concerns. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I am sorry to hear of the financial and health issues Ms W has experienced. I 
understand managing her repayments and dealing with Tesco Bank has been a source of 
worry and frustration, at what has already been a challenging time. 
Our service has already issued a final decision in relation to Ms Ws complaint about the 
closure of her current and credit card account. Many of the points Ms W has raised under 
this complaint relate to the issues in the earlier complaint. So, I must stress I wont be 
addressing any points that have been looked at under that complaint. The final decision on 
the earlier complaint marks the end of our involvement with those issues. Instead, I will be 
focusing on how Tesco Bank treated Ms W whilst a hold had been applied to her credit card 
account.  
Ms W contacted Tesco Bank about applying a hold to her credit card account whilst her 
complaint was being looked into. I think its important to set out that there is no requirement 
for businesses to apply a hold to an account which is subject to a complaint. The application 
of a hold is for a business to decide at its own discretion. In some instances, our service may 
request a hold but, again a bank is not required to adhere to such a request. 
In Ms Ws case Tesco Bank agreed to a hold on her credit account between 1 July and      
18 October 2021. During this time interest and charges on Ms Ws account were suspended. 
Tesco Bank also didnt report any adverse information on Ms Ws credit file during this 
period. But Ms Ws outstanding balance remained. I find that Tesco Bank treated Ms W fairly 
here. 
Ms W says that during this period Tesco Bank called her multiple times about her 
outstanding debt. Ive looked at Tesco Banks internal records and I cant see that         
Tesco Bank did this  there are no records of any outgoing calls to Ms W about her credit 
card account during this time. Ms W was informed by letter of Tesco Banks decision to close 
her accounts in August 2021, and it wanted to ensure she had alternative arrangements in 
place. Other than this, I cant see that Tesco Bank pursued Ms W for the outstanding 
balance on her credit card. 
Tesco Bank had a regulatory responsibility to inform Ms W of the status of her outstanding 
debt. So, whilst the hold was applied between July and October 2021, it also needed to 
ensure Ms W was aware of the amount she owed and the options available to her in clearing 
this debt. Ms W was therefore sent her monthly statements and a notice of sum in arrears in 
October 2021. Given its obligations, I think Tesco Bank acted reasonably in continuing to 
send this information to Ms W.
I can see Ms W says she was facing financial difficulties, and this impacted her ability to 
clear the outstanding balance. Generally, businesses have an obligation to treat customers 
in financial difficulty sympathetically and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) says that 
businesses like Tesco Bank should treat customers in difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration. I think Tesco Banks application of the hold on her credit card account is in 
keeping with this guidance. The hold could not be applied indefinitely, and I can see that 
from October 2021 Tesco Bank has contacted Ms W to try and establish a repayment plan. 
Overall, I am satisfied Tesco Bank has taken account of Ms Ws circumstances and treated 
her fairly. 
I know this will not be the outcome Ms W was hoping for and she will be disappointed with 
the decision Ive reached. But I hope my decision provides some clarity around why I wont 
be asking Tesco Bank to take any further action. I can see Ms W has contacted the      
Citizen Advice Bureau and it may be able to work with Ms W and Tesco Bank in finding a 
feasible way forward. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman