DRN-4042881
The complaint
Mr M has complained that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase (Chase) blocked 
an online card payment.
Mr M is also unhappy with how Chase dealt with his request to get the card unblocked.
What happened
On 26 December 2022 Mr M contacted Chases webchat as a payment hed attempted to 
make online was declined. Chase suggested he try making the payment again, to see if it 
would go through, but unfortunately it didnt. This led to Mr Ms account with the website he 
was making the payment on being blocked.
On the same day, Mr M spoke to Chase and it was explained that the payment had been 
blocked as a fraud prevention measure, as a payment had not been made to that merchant 
from the account in question before. 
A couple of days later Chase contacted Mr M and apologised for the inconvenience and said 
that it is willing to pay Mr M £20. Mr M didnt accept this amount.
Chase then agreed to pay Mr M £60 to reflect the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced. Chase also confirmed that Mr M wont need to contact Chase each time he 
uses his card with a new merchant.
As Mr M was still unhappy with Chases offer, Mr M referred his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they concluded that Chases offer of 
£60 was reasonable.
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I think that Chases offer to pay Mr M £60 is reasonable redress 
in light of the circumstances.
I understand that Mr M tried to make a payment of £10.18 to an internet retailer on the 
morning of 26 December 2022 and the payment was blocked. In the circumstances, I 
appreciate that this wouldve been frustrating for Mr M, especially as Mr M was then required 
to contact Chase to see why the payment had been declined.
Chase has explained that the payment was declined due to its fraud prevention system. 
However, although having a genuine transaction blocked is frustrating, at the same time, I 
cant reasonably say that Chase was being unreasonable by applying the block that it did. 
Afterall, the only reason why the transaction was declined was to protect Mr Ms money from 
potential fraud.
I can see that Mr M was able to contact Chase on the morning of 26 December 2022. And it 
was initially suggested that Mr M try the payment again to see if it would go through on a 
second attempt. In my view this is not an unreasonable suggestion to make in order to  
troubleshoot the situation, as its a quick way to see if there was an issue with that specific 
payment, or if there is a wider issue. However, Mr Ms second attempt to make the payment 
was also declined. I can see that he was able to speak with Chases fraud team on the 
morning of 26 December 2022, where it was established that the reason why the original 
payment had been declined was due to its fraud prevention system.
Unfortunately, because Mr M had had two declined payments, not only was he unable to 
make the purchase, but he was then blocked out of his account with the online retailer as 
well. And I recognise that this wouldve been frustrating for him as Mr M was then required to 
take further steps with the retailer to get his account unblocked.
As such, based on everything that happened, overall I think that awarding Mr M £60 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused in blocking his two payments on 26 December 2022 is 
reasonable redress. I say this because, although I cant say Chase was being unfair or 
unreasonable by blocking the transactions in the first place, its clear that Mr M was caused 
some inconvenience in having to contact Chase to get the matter resolved and also in 
having to then get his account with the retailer unblocked as well.
Finally, I note that in our complaint form, in addition to the declined payments on 
26 December 2022, Mr M has also mentioned having his card declined whilst in a restaurant 
on New Years Eve 2022. 
However, as that looks to be a separate event that occurred after hed already raised this 
complaint with Chase, weve not addressed that issue in this complaint. As such, if Mr M is 
unhappy about that he will need to raise a separate complaint with Chase in the first 
instance. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as 
Chase (Chase) needs to do anything more in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman