DRN-3391294
The complaint
Mrs G complains that AXA Insurance UK PLC wrongly declined to cover a claim she made 
on her Horsebox Freedom Policy and provided misinformation and poor service to her. 
What happened
Mrs G noticed a wet patch to the underside of the floor of the bathroom area of the horsebox 
in May 2021. She thought it may have been caused by a leaking tap. AXAs advisor told her 
in error that the policy wouldnt cover the fault with the tap, but it would cover any damage 
resulting from it. AXA asked Mrs G to get an assessment and a repair estimate from a local 
firm (firm A). Firm A said it thought water had leaked from a broken toilet unit door. 
AXA then instructed an independent engineer to inspect the damage. He said there was no 
leak from the shower unit but he found mould under the floorboards and rotting of the timber 
around the toilet unit. He said the damage to the timber frame would have led to ingress of 
water to the floor, and that the damage had been caused over time by wear and tear, which 
isnt covered by the policy. 
As AXA declined the claim, Mrs G made a complaint to it in July 2021. AXA didnt issue a 
final response letter to her until 10 September 2021. In the meantime, it told her she could 
complain to us, so one of our investigators reviewed Mrs Gs complaint. He noted that AXA 
had offered Mrs G £100 for the inaccurate information provided by its advisor when she first 
contacted it, plus £25 for the delay in dealing with her complaint. He thought it was fair for 
AXA to decline the claim and to rely on the view of the independent engineer.  
Mrs G said she only pursued a claim due to the false information she got from AXA, and that 
it took too long to deal with it. She said shed have had the damage repaired earlier had AXA 
said it wasnt going to cover it at the start. She also said that the independent engineer gave 
her his view before inspecting the damage. And she pointed out that in its final response 
letter AXA had promised to have further work done on the claim, but it hadnt done so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mrs G was frustrated to find that shed been given the wrong advice when she 
first called AXA, as it raised her expectations. But had she been given the right advice  that 
damage caused by wear and tear isnt covered by the policy  I think AXA would still have 
needed to arrange an inspection, and that Mrs G would have agreed to it. So the claim 
would still have continued. Thats because Mrs G only suspected what the fault might be, 
and the cause of the problem might not have been wear and tear. In my opinion, AXA made 
a reasonable attempt to put the poor advice issue right by offering Mrs G £100 
compensation for the upset caused to her by the advisors error. 
In terms of what caused the damage, we usually give great weight to the views of 
independent engineers. Their duty is to the court, not to the insurer, and I dont think Mrs S 
has shown that theres any reason to doubt the engineers integrity or expertise. She says 
the engineer told her in advance that the problem would be wear and tear, but even if thats 
the case, it only reflects his opinion of what the likely cause was. Mrs S cant show that he 
wasnt open to finding other causes of the damage.
The engineer went on to carry out a full inspection, and his findings were supported by 
specific facts. The mould and rotting timber he found are proof of long-term damage that Mrs 
G wouldnt have been aware of. And a water test carried out by firm A at the independent 
engineers request showed that the toilet unit door had failed (in line with firm As initial 
findings). Mrs G took photos in August 2021 that showed water flowing down pipes 
connected to the shower and the sink. It seems she wasnt aware of this previously, as she 
didnt mention it to AXA until then. If so, the issue couldnt have caused the long-term 
damage she noted in May 2021. 
I think it was reasonable for AXA to rely on the independent engineers report and to decline 
the claim. I dont think there was any excessive delay in dealing with it, given that tests and 
inspections had to be carried out. The engineer assessed the damage in June 2021 and 
AXA declined the claim on14 July 2021  around six weeks after Mrs G first contacted it 
about the problem. AXA compensated Mrs G for the delay in dealing with her complaint  
and in the meantime, it advised her to complain to us, to minimise the effect of it. 
Mrs G told us recently that AXA hadnt contacted her as it had promised to do in its final 
response letter (following further work by its engineer and the independent engineer). A 
report on the file from September 2021 shows that the independent engineer and AXAs 
engineer agreed (after further consideration of the vehicle and checks for impact and 
vandalism) that the damage was due to long term wear and tear. It appears AXA hasnt 
contacted Mrs G about this, despite her chasing it  in October 2021. This wasnt an issue 
that Mrs G complained to us about initially, so weve referred the issue to AXA for it to review 
and have asked it to contact Mrs G directly.
As I dont think Mrs G has shown that AXA did anything substantially wrong, apart from the 
misinformation it gave her in error (which it tried to put right) I cant uphold her complaint.  
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman