DRN-2015819
The complaint
Mr Cs son (R) brings a complaint on behalf of his father against HSBC Bank PLC (HSBC). It 
relates to him providing an Enduring Power of Attorney (EPA) to HSBC in respect of his 
father, and having done so HSBC freezing his fathers account, resulting in 2 direct debits 
(DD) being unpaid and him having no access to the account for a period of around 4 weeks.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr C and HSBC, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mr C made an EPA appointing his daughter, and R as his attorneys. R decided to register 
the EPA with Office of the Public Guardian (OPG) but at the point of registration did not 
advise HSBC. Sometime later he did submit the registered EPA to HSBC but importantly told 
them that his father had not lost the mental capacity to conduct his own affairs. When the 
EPA was sent for processing, HSBC assumed Mr C had in fact lost his mental capacity and 
then followed their procedures for such an event. That included freezing the account and two 
DDs not being actioned.
When R notified HSBC that his father retained capacity and asked for the account to be 
unfrozen, HSBCs legal dept became involved. They advised that R could contact the OPG 
to arrange for the EPA to be de-registered, or a letter obtained from Mr Cs GP to confirm 
her had regained capacity, upon which they would remove the block on the account. Such a 
letter was ultimately provided, and the account unblocked. HSBC offered R £35 towards the 
calls he was having to make, and £150 by way of apology for their error in actioning the 
EPA. 
R was unhappy with HSBCs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. One of our investigators looked into the complaint, and 
having done so, concluded that HSBC had dealt with the complaint fairly, and that the 
amount of compensation HSBC offered to Mr C was enough to put things right. R didnt 
agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered both sides views in considering whether HSBC acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I must 
make an independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive 
done here. 
The starting point to this complaint is the registration of the EPA with the OPG. In my view 
that should only be done when the donor has become incapable or is about to become 
incapable of managing their own affairs. R made such a registration, and so must have 
thought at that time that his father did not have such mental capacity. Indeed, R refers in his 
correspondence to the variability and instability of his fathers mental health during 2016/17. 
Further, during a call to the bank on the 29 March 2019 R told them that his father was 
seriously ill and deteriorating rapidly. That said, from the evidence it is clear Mr C regained 
capacity at some time, and it certainly appears that he had so done at the point R took the 
EPA to HSBC. Quite why R did not de-register the EPA before so doing, is perhaps a moot 
point, since he told HSBC that his father had capacity.
HSBC accept that they were told Mr C had capacity, and so the correct way forward, in my 
view, would then have been for further enquiry on HSBCs part to determine Mr Cs current 
mental state. I say that because HSBC were faced with two competing facts; that there was 
a registered EPA indicating lack of capacity, and a statement from the donee saying capacity 
had been regained. The accepted error is thus the commencement of HSBCs procedure for 
those customers lacking capacity. I cannot fault HSBCs procedure in itself, only perhaps 
that they initiated it. The result of that requires some scrutiny. 
A DD to DVLA was not paid, but a reminder was issued, and the road tax then paid. R 
argues that his father was thus driving without insurance for 7 days during which time he 
drove the car twice. I do not know whether the absence of road tax invalidated the insurance 
or not since I have seen no evidence of the same, but thankfully there was no adverse 
incident. By that I mean there has been no impact upon the insurance policy itself, and there 
have been no proceedings brought for driving without insurance or road tax. So, whilst the 
DD ought to have been paid, the net impact upon Mr C has been nil.
A second DD was not paid and this related to a broadband and telephone account. 
Fortunately, payment was made by R within 1 day of disconnection, and so he prevented 
any of the adverse consequences he has described. In short, the non-payment of this DD 
has also had no direct material impact upon Mr C.
Whilst the account was frozen Mr C initiated an account switch, which failed due to the 
freeze on the account. The block on the switch flows from the freeze itself, and is a direct 
consequence of it, albeit an action which was in accordance with HSBCs procedure. The 
issue is whether HSBC could have overlooked, or otherwise found a way to remove the 
freeze rather than adopt the stance which it did. I do not think they could, because having 
committed to it, I think it was then incumbent upon them to ensure that removing the freeze 
was evidentially sound. 
R has complained about the duration of the freeze, being around 4 weeks in total. The 
account was frozen on the 28 March 2019 and he says HSBC told him the freeze would last 
2 weeks. HSBCs notes show that R was told on the 11 April 2019 that a letter from his 
fathers GP would be required to confirm capacity had been regained, and that letter was 
then provided on the 26 April and the account switch completed on or about the 30 April. In 
these circumstances HSBC cannot be faulted for the period of time it took for the GPs letter 
to be produced, and the only period of time of relevance is the period up to the 11 April or 
thereabouts. I appreciate R states that he was told by an HSBC manager that action was 
promised within a week of his call on the 30 March. The 11 April is a little bit outside that 
timescale, but not such that I could fairly criticise HSBC.
R has said that his initial complaint was not responded to within 8 weeks as it should have 
been, maintaining, variously, that it took 10.7 or over 11 weeks to respond. As far as I can 
see this is not part of Rs original complaint to HSBC and as such they have not had the opportunity to respond to it. As such I cannot deal with it until such time as HSBC have had 
that opportunity.
What HSBC do recognise and have accepted, is that it didnt get things right, and because of 
that it should compensate Mr C. As such, it offered compensation of £185. But, as R doesnt 
believe this is enough to put matters right, Ive given some further thought to what might be 
an appropriate, fair and reasonable level of award. In so doing Ive considered the level of 
awards this service has made for trouble and upset in similar cases, and also in the light of 
my findings, the impact of the accepted failure in service upon Mr C.
Problems and issues such as these very often lead a customer to experience frustration, 
annoyance and inconvenience, which we as a service term trouble and upset. When we 
find this has occurred we think about what a business could do to put matters right, and 
awarding compensation is one way of doing that. But awards for the trouble and upset need 
to be balanced and measured against the ups and downs of daily life we all face when 
dealing with other people, businesses and organisations, and recognising that that can be 
inconvenient at times. I acknowledge of course that the failure to pay the DDs could have 
resulted in much graver consequences, but thankfully it didnt.
And Ive considered Rs request that HSBC ought to be punished, but that is not something I 
have the power to do. Any overall concerns about business process would need to be 
raised with The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Putting all of this into the balance I think what HSBC offered is fair and reasonable and I do 
think it is enough to put matters right. I have noted R seeks £1,000 but in my view that is 
disproportionate to the impact and effect HSBCs errors ultimately had.
So, although R will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst HSBC have 
indeed made errors, I cant say HSBC has subsequently acted unfairly or unreasonably here 
and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
HSBC has already made an offer to pay Mr C £185 to settle this complaint, and I think that is 
fair and reasonable. 
So, my final decision is that HSBC should pay Mr C £185.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2020. 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman