DRN-3168021
The complaint
Mr S complains about the delays Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) caused in 
making a window replacement under his motor insurance policy. He wants further 
compensation for his trouble and upset.
What happened
Mr S said it took over nine weeks for RSAs agents to complete a window repair on his car. 
He said the car was returned several times with broken glass inside and then he had to call 
RSA several times. RSA and its agents agreed that the level of service was below 
expectations. RSAs agent paid him £250 compensation and waived the £100 policy excess. 
It paid Mr S £489.60 as a gesture of goodwill for eight weeks loss of use, even though he 
had a hire car in this time. It refunded him £225 for a lost holiday deposit and paid him a 
further £150 as a gesture of goodwill. And RSA reimbursed £280 for the cost of a car valet. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
level of compensation paid by RSA and its agents exceeded what this service would 
recommend. So she thought RSA neednt do anything further. 
Mr S replied that he thought RSA should compensate him for his trouble and upset. Mr S 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr S received a very poor service from RSAs agents when he made a claim 
following damage to his cars windows. It took a few weeks for the glass to be replaced. And, 
when the car was returned, Mr S couldnt use it because of the broken glass inside. From 
what I can see, the car had to be returned to have this remedied and then a final valet was 
needed to restore the cars condition. I can see that Mr S had to call RSA and its agents 
several times to have this done. 
When a business makes a mistake, as RSA accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
RSA and its agents completed the glass repairs, finally removed the glass and reimbursed 
Mr S £280 for the final valet. Mr S said hed lost the deposit for a holiday. And RSA 
reimbursed him £225 for this, without evidence of the outlay. I think that was very fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. So I think this reasonably restored Mr Ss position.
Mr S said the hire car provided was unsuitable. And I think RSAs agent then very 
reasonably paid him £489.60 for eight weeks loss of use. As the investigator has explained, 
we wouldnt expect a business to provide a hire car, which was in keeping with the policys 
terms and conditions, as well as a payment for loss of use. I think this was a generous 
gesture of goodwill. 
I can see that RSA and its agents then considered the impact the errors had on Mr S. They 
paid Mr S £250 compensation, waived his £100 policy excess and paid him a further £150 
as a gesture of goodwill. 
I think this is a very fair and reasonable recognition of the trouble and upset the poor level of 
service caused Mr S. This is because this amount of compensation, not including the 
reimbursement for the valet, is higher than wed award in similar circumstances as shown in 
our published guidance. So I dont require RSA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman