DRN-3382398
The complaint
Mr G has complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) declined a claim under his home 
insurance policy following a break in at his home.
What happened
QIC appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyor confirmed the damage, 
however he couldnt confirm whether the key had been left in the inside lock at the time of 
the break in. He confirmed that there was no damage to the frame or evidence of forced 
entry. The surveyor confirmed that the door had been damaged beyond economical repair 
and a full replacement door was required.
QIC nevertheless declined to pay the claim as they stated that Mr G hadnt complied with the 
policy terms and conditions as to security of his property. Following a complaint by Mr G, 
QIC maintained its stance and he therefore referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint. She noted that the policy terms and conditions 
excluded cover if certain security conditions werent met. She said that it was evident that 
after smashing the window panel in the door, the thief/thieves had somehow been able to 
gain access to the property by reaching the keys. She said that it was uncertain whether the 
keys were in the door or by the door. She concluded however that the keys were within 
reach or sight. 
As to any stolen contents, our investigator concluded that there had been a breach of the 
policy exclusion and that QIC had applied this exclusion fairly and reasonably. However, the 
investigator considered the remaining question was whether there was cover for damage to 
the door only. She was of the view that the exclusion provision would operate unfairly if QIC 
relied upon it in that respect.
Our investigator stated that as the window panel was frosted, the intruder(s) wouldnt have 
seen the keys. She considered that declining this element was unfair and that the damage to 
the door was not related to compliance or otherwise by Mr G of the lock condition. In her 
view, the damage to the door was an unforeseen event and would have occurred 
irrespective of whether Mr G complied with the security condition. 
Finally, our investigator stated that our service considers if insurers terms and conditions are 
fair. If a term was onerous or unusual, it would be appropriate to say it cant be applied in 
certain circumstances. She concluded that the exclusion provision was unfair in the 
circumstances of this case and that QIC should cover the cost of door replacement.
QIC is unhappy with the outcome and the matter has therefore been referred to me to reach 
a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The central issue for me to consider here is whether it was fair and reasonable for QIC to 
rely on the security exclusion clause in its policy and to decline this claim. I  uphold Mr Gs 
complaint in relation to damage to the door of his property for the following reasons.
My starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy which Mr G purchased from QIC. 
Firstly, Mr G is covered in principle by his QIC policy in the event of a theft at his home. The 
relevant provisions are as follows.
Under the heading Theft or attempted theft, the policy states that we will cover loss or 
damage: caused by theft or attempted theft following forced and violent entry to your 
home It does however also state that; we may require you to have minimum security in 
place. Please check your policy for any specific endorsement. Under the heading Malicious 
damage or vandalism, there is also separate cover for loss or damage caused by malicious 
people or vandals.
Mr Gs policy schedule states under the heading Theft and malicious damage excluded if 
security requirements not met. It then states that this provision applies when there is nobody 
home or the residents have gone to bed for the night.
The schedule goes on to state that you must; -
a. remove keys from all locks and keep them out of sight or reach of a potential intruder; 
and
b. ensure that the locks declared in your insurance application are put into full and 
effective use.
It also states; - We will not pay for loss or damage caused by any theft, attempted theftor 
malicious acts...unless you meet both requirements (a) and (b).
Ill now turn to the information and arguments which each party has provided. Mr G 
stated that the keys were usually left on a surface to the side of the door and under a cloth. 
He says that the window panel was frosted, and the intruder(s) would only see the keys 
after the door was broken. He said that hes been made to feel like a criminal and a liar. 
He said that the fact of this is my back door was smashed in by a burglar (keys or no 
keys) and he has gained access to my property smashed my alarm and stole a load of 
stuff.
In his response to the QIC final response letter, Mr G stated the following about the 
thief/thieves. He would hasten a guess that they are probably an opportunist who have 
smashed my door in (through frosted glass also shown in the photo) and have somehow 
hooked some keys. The QIC case-notes also indicate that the property had a security alarm 
system and camera in place.
QIC stated that it had contacted Mr G following his claim to clarify where the keys were 
located at the time of the break in, as the photograph which Mr G had sent showed the key 
in the lock. Its case notes show that initially, Mr G said they could have been in the lock, 
however then subsequently said this wasnt the case. QIC referred to the report of its 
surveyor as follows; there was no damage to the frame or sash to show that forced entry 
was made via jemmying the door. It thought that the photographs showed that this was 
isolated damage to the window panel. As there was no other damage to the door to indicate another form of entry, it considered that entry occurred following non-compliance with the 
terms of the policy.
It stated that the damage to the door was; - isolated entirely to the section of the glass door 
panel which corresponds with the location of the handle and door lock and that the intruders 
wouldnt have been able to gain access through a hole of that size in the glass. It said that 
either the keys were in the lock or the locks hadnt been fully engaged. As such it considered 
that the policy exclusion applied and refused to pay for any loss or damage.
QIC thought that even if Mr Gs interpretation of how the intruder(s) located the keys was 
correct, these circumstances would also constitute breach of the terms of the endorsement 
which stated that the keys should be removed from all locks but that they should also be 
kept out of sight or reach of a potential intruder. 
It said that the explicit exclusion provision made it clear that it applied not only to loss, but 
also damage, such as that caused to the door. It said that such damage wouldnt be covered 
if caused by a theft or attempted theft unless the requirements in (a) and (b) above were 
met. It considered that they werent met. 
Ive carefully considered the available evidence and the arguments of both the parties and 
the wording of the relevant exclusion clause. Firstly, on the facts, due to the limited extent 
and type of the damage to the window panel in the door, there appears to be no dispute that 
the intruder(s) could only have entered Mr Gs home by reaching the keys, either in the lock 
or on a surface near to the door. 
Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for QIC to apply the exclusion in its policy to any 
stolen items within the home. This was due to the engagement of clear, standard and 
proportionate wording in such circumstances. Despite the apparent security measures in 
place, all reasonable and specified steps hadnt been taken to secure the contents of Mr G 
home. Leaving a key in, or close to, the door lock allowed an opportunist thief/thieves to 
access the home. In the circumstances, I cant say that QIC applied the exclusion clause 
unfairly and unreasonably as regards the theft of any items within the home.
As to damage to the door however, on the balance of probabilities, an opportunist 
thief/thieves would have had no reason to believe that there would be a key within easy 
access of the door until the window was smashed. The key wouldnt have been visible 
through the heavily frosted glass and it also appears from QICs case notes that there were 
other security measures in place. 
On the balance of probabilities, I consider that Mr G had met condition (b) of the exclusion 
clause; - ensure that the locks declared in your insurance application are put into full and 
effective use. The fact that the window panel had been broken indicates that the door was 
locked as its likely that the intruder(s) would first have tried to gain entry by the simplest 
available method (that is, opening the door) before breaking the window.
As to condition (a) of the exclusion clause; - remove keys from all locks and keep them out 
of sight or reach of a potential intruder, the key was out of sight from external view. The 
photographs show that the window panel was frosted, and the door was a modern door in 
apparently good condition. It was also out of reach until the window panel had been broken. I 
can appreciate that it could be fair to rely upon an exclusion clause of this nature in other 
circumstances. Such examples are where there was a flimsy or transparent window panel 
where the key was visible inside the property, or where a key had been left outside within 
reach, such as above a door lintel. This is not the case here. Even if the key had been left in the lock, outwardly, it is fair to conclude that the property was 
secure with no indication that security had in any way been compromised. I agree with our 
investigator in the circumstances that, An opportunist thief/thieves would have always 
smashed the glass irrespective of whether they were successful in entering the property. I 
therefore agree that, the exclusion provision would operate unfairly if QIC could rely upon it 
here. This is reinforced by the fact that the policy covers Mr G for malicious damage, which 
is not dependent on the security provisions of the policy.
I conclude that it would be unfair and unreasonable for QIC to rely on this provision to 
exclude damage caused during an attempted theft in these specific circumstances. QICs 
surveyor considered that in his/her professional opinion, a replacement door rather than 
repair of the window panel was required. In the circumstances I consider it fair and 
reasonable that QIC should cover the costs incurred for replacement of the door and the 
initial boarding up of the property to make the property safe.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and require QIC Europe Ltd to; -
- Pay the costs for replacing the door 
- Pay for the costs incurred in boarding up the window panel
-
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman