DRN-2954676
The complaint
Mr B complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited has avoided his policy for 
misrepresentation, whilst taking out insurance that covered his cars and his home
He is being assisted in his complaint by a relative, Mrs S.
What happened
Mr B had a number of cars insured with various different providers. Mrs S was helping Mr 
B obtain new quotes, preferably with one insurer for ease. She obtained quotes from 
Admiral and was called to discuss this further in November 2017. During the call, the call 
handler explained that adding home insurance might discount the car insurance further, 
which Mrs S was interested in.
During the call, Mrs S was asked whether there was any business use at the property, to 
which she answered no. She also answered no to a question about any building or 
renovation work in progress. A quote was provided to cover the home and cars which Mr 
B ultimately decided to go ahead with. I understand home insurance was added to the 
multi-car policy in July 2018.
Mr B submitted a claim in May 2019 as wind had restarted a fire outside, which resulted 
in damage to parts of Mr Bs home and one of his cars. When sending out a claims 
inspector, it was discovered the home was part of a working farm and that a two-storey 
development was in progress. Admiral declined the claim and avoided the policy from the 
outset and refunded the premium paid as it says it wouldnt have provided cover had it 
known of its business use or the renovation work.
Mr B complained but Admiral stood by its decision. Our investigator was satisfied Admiral 
had fairly avoided the policy; she concluded the insurer had asked clear questions which 
had been answered incorrectly. Mrs S didnt agree, she said the working farm buildings 
were insured separately and no business was conducted in the home.
I issued my provisional findings on 11 June 2021, explaining why I was minded to uphold 
this complaint. I have set out provisional findings below. 
Under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) 
there is a duty on a consumer to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
to the insurer. And CIDRA sets out that whether or not a consumer has taken 
reasonable care is to be determined in light of all the relevant circumstances, including 
amongst others, how clear and specific the insurers questions were, whether or not an 
agent was acting for the consumer, (S3 (2)) and if the insurer was, or ought to have 
been, aware of any particular characteristics or circumstances of the actual consumer 
(S3 (4)).
I accept that the home Admiral was insuring was part of a much larger property, which 
was a working livestock farm. And I accept that Admiral has provided evidence to show 
that it wouldnt have provided cover had it known the home was situated on a working 
farm (Ill come on to the renovation separately). Under CIDRA, Admiral does have a 
remedy against Mr B if it can show any misrepresentation was made in breach of the 
duty to take reasonable care and the insurer would not have entered into the contract or 
would have done so on different terms (S4 (1)). These are known as qualifying 
misrepresentations.
If I find that Mr B  via Mrs S  didnt take reasonable care, then Admiral does have the 
remedy of avoiding the policy. But if I find, taking into account all the relevant 
circumstances, reasonable care was taken, then Admiral doesnt have any remedy 
against Mr B.
Having taken the provisions of CIDRA into account, Im satisfied Mrs S, on behalf of Mr 
B, did take reasonable care when providing the answers to questions she was asked 
during the call of 24 November 2017, the basis for which cover was offered.
Its quite clear, having listened to the call, that Mrs S was hesitant in some of her 
responses as she was unsure of the correct answer  such as the number of bedrooms 
or bathrooms in the home. This is hardly surprising as Mrs S wasnt actually seeking 
home insurance on the call, but a multi-car insurance policy for Mr Bs cars. It was the 
call-handler that introduced including home insurance as well, in an effort to provide a 
bigger discount on the car insurance, and therefore secure the sale.
The call-handler asked if Mr B was a home owner, and then a number of questions 
following that related to the home. I do accept Mrs S was later asked if there was any 
business use on the property, to which she answered no. I dont think it helped that 
home and property were used interchangeably, but I accept the response was strictly 
incorrect  the property was the entire farm.
However, Im satisfied that when Mrs S answered the questions, she thought she was 
doing so in relation to the home  the place Mr B resided in, not the entire farm. And as 
I understand it, farm business was conducted away from the home, with the farm 
buildings and livestock being insured separately. Im therefore currently minded to find 
that Mrs S answered the questions honestly and to the best of her knowledge and as 
such took reasonable care. That means Admiral doesnt have a remedy against Mr B 
even if incorrect information was provided.
In reaching this finding, Im mindful that Mrs S gave the full name of the property as 
xxxxxxx Organic Farm at the outset of the call. I fully accept that many people use the 
title farm or barn in the name of their homes, and this isnt necessarily indicative of the 
property being a working farm or barn. But I dont think the same could reasonably said 
of Organic; this suggests something more than just a home, otherwise why refer to it. 
And Mrs S also shared that Mr B spends most of his time on a tractor during the call. 
Again, I accept many people have tractors or other similar types of vehicle or machinery 
for domestic use, particularly if grounds are large. But when you combine both Organic 
and tractor it seems to me that a reasonably prudent insurer ought to have been on 
notice the property was something more just a residential home. As Admiral was aware 
of particular characteristics andcircumstances in relation to Mr B, it ought to have 
probed more and asked clear questions in relation to that. It didnt do so, instead 
proceeding with the quote and offering insurance.
I turn now to the renovation/building work. Mrs S was asked a question about whether 
any building work or renovation was in progress. Mrs S answered no I dont think so. 
When the claims inspector went to assess the claim, I understand he found that a two-
storey extension had been added to the side of the home. He also found that a planning 
application had been submitted to build a new farm building. However, the application was submitted after the home cover was added to the multi-car policy and many months 
after the initial sales call.
And the application was in relation to the farm and not the home. With regard to the 
extension, I accept this would be classed as building work. However, Mr B and Mrs S 
have told us this was completed before the sales call and it was just decoration that 
needed to be completed. As the building work was no longer in progress, I dont 
necessarily think this was answered incorrectly. But even if I did, Admiral hasnt shown 
that it wouldnt have insured Mr B for that reason alone.
Overall, Im currently minded to find that Mrs S took reasonable care when answering 
the questions posed by Admiral. As such, even if those answers had turned out to be 
wrong, under CIDRA, Admiral does not have a remedy against Mr B. Im therefore 
currently minded to uphold this complaint as Im not persuaded Admiral has treated Mr 
B fairly.
Putting things right
I am currently minded to require Admiral to:
reinstate Mr Bs multi-car with home insurance policy; and
reconsider Mr Bs claim for damage to his home subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions; and
amend its records and any central databases (such as CUE) so there is no 
record of Mr Bs policy being avoided; and
refund any difference in Mr B has had to pay as a result of the policy being 
avoided, and what he would have paid had that record not been made.
Admiral should also add 8% per annum simple interest to any refund made from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement. If Mr B is out of pocket as a result of the 
claim being declined (i.e. if Mr B had to pay for his own repairs) Admiral also needs to 
add 8% per annum simply interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement, 
if the claim is payable, on production of reasonable evidence of Mr Bs outlay.
I also think Mr B has been caused inconvenience as a result of his claim being unfairly 
declined and he should be fairly compensated for that. I find £200 compensation to be 
a fair reflection of the impact that had.
Mrs S, on behalf of Mr B, has accepted my provisional findings and explained quotes have 
been obtained for the windows and she wanted to know if Admiral was liable to pay for the 
damaged windows and to replace the garage (I explained matters were yet to be 
finalised). 
Admiral didnt agree with the outcome reached. In summary, it said:
Although Mrs S wasnt the policy holder, she had a duty to provide accurate 
information. If she didnt know the answers to any of the questions, she shouldnt 
have answered them at all. By choosing to answer questions she wasnt sure of, 
she didnt take reasonable care. 
Policy documents were sent to Mr B, which included the answers given. Mr B was 
asked to check the details carefully and to contact it if any corrections were 
required. It also included warnings that a failure to notify it of corrections or 
changes could result in the policy being declared void. 
When insuring a property, it covers the address, not just the main dwelling. Its policy book defines Home as:
The private residence and its garages, sheds or outbuildings, as the 
address shown on your policy documents, providing it is used for private 
and domestic purposes only.
  
Although the buildings were insured separately, they formed part of the risk 
address and were included in the definition of Home covered under its policy. As it 
is unable to exclude outbuildings from cover, it is unable to offer a policy where 
part of the property is used for any purpose other than private and domestic. 
By failing to contact it after receiving the policy documents, both Mr B and Mrs S 
have failed to reasonable care. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered the responses to my provisional findings, but I havent been 
persuaded to alter them. I have set out my provisional findings above, so I will just focus on 
responding to the points made by Admiral.  
I take Admirals point about not providing answers if unsure of the correct answer. But I dont 
agree that means Mrs S didnt take reasonable care. Admiral has taken my comments about 
Mrs S being hesitant in some answers as she was unsure of the correct answer out of 
context. As set out my provisional findings this was in relation to the number of bedrooms or 
bathrooms in the home. It was not in relation to whether there was any business use on the 
property, and my provisional decision made no such findings. Admiral has not put forward 
any arguments that Mrs S answers to questions about bedrooms and bathrooms would 
have made any difference to its decision to insure. 
Admiral has provided a copy of the documents sent to Mr B following the policy being 
incepted. These were documents we already had and so had already formed part of my 
consideration when issuing my provisional findings. I will nevertheless consider the points it 
has made. 
Im not persuaded either the policy schedule or the proposal confirmation clearly set out that 
insuring the property meant it was insuring the entire address rather than just the private 
dwelling and any associated residential sheds, garages and outbuildings. I have already set 
out in my provisional findings that the call handler used home and property 
interchangeably. And I found that Mrs S had taken reasonable care when answering the 
question about business use  as Im satisfied she thought she was answering the question 
in relation to the place Mr B resided in, not the entire farm. Im not persuaded there is 
anything in the follow up documentation that makes it clear Mrs S might have answered that 
question incorrectly or that home might have been misunderstood. 
The definition of home is the private residence, garages, sheds or outbuildings. It would 
appear Admiral is arguing that by including outbuildings in the definition of home, that Mr B 
ought to have realised that meant the farm buildings. But Im not persuaded there is anything 
within that definition, had Mr B been directed to it (which I dont think he was) that would 
have caused him to understand thats what Admiral meant by the definition of home. The 
definition starts with private residence and so it can be reasonably interpreted that anything 
following that in the definition is also associated with the private residence  that is, a shed, 
garage or outbuilding used privately and domestically, not as part of the farm. If Admiral had 
meant any and all buildings at the risk address, then it could have been clearer about that. It follows, Im not persuaded either Mr B, or Mrs S, ought to have realised they needed to take 
action on receipt of the policy documents, such that they didnt take reasonable care.  
In my provisional findings, I was mindful of the information that Admiral was in possession of. 
Mrs S had given the full name of the property which included Organic Farm. And during the 
course of the call referred to Mr B spending most of his time on a tractor.  I found that a 
reasonably prudent insurer ought to have been on notice the property was something more 
than just a residential home. And as Admiral was aware of particular characteristics and 
circumstances in relation to Mr B, it ought to have probed more and asked clear questions in 
relation to that. I found it hadnt done so. Admiral hasnt responded to these findings, and so 
I remain of the view it didnt ask clear questions about the property in the sales call. 
Overall, and taking everything into account, I remain satisfied Mrs S took reasonable care 
when answering Admirals questions.  As such, even though those answers have turned out 
to be wrong, under CIDRA Admiral doesnt have a remedy against Mr B and I find no reason 
to depart from the law in this case. 
Putting things right
As Im not persuaded it was fair for Admiral to avoid Mr Bs policy, I require it to:
reinstate Mr s mutli-car with home insurance policy; and 
reconsider Mr Bs claim for damage to his home subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions; and
amend its records and any central database (such as CUE) so there is no record of 
Mr Bs policy being avoided; and
refund any difference Mr B has had to pay in premiums as a result of the policy being 
avoided, and what he would have had to pay had that record not been made. 
Admiral should also add 8% per annum simple interest to any refund made from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. If Mr B if out of pocket as a result of the claim being 
declined (i.e. if Mr B had to pay for his own repairs) Admiral also needs to add 8% per 
annum simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement, if the claim is 
payable, on production of reasonable evidence of Mr Bs outlay.  I also require Admiral to 
pay Mr B £200 for the inconvenience its handling of this matter has caused Mr B. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited and require it to compensate Mr B as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman