DRN-3042863
The complaint
Mrs M complains that John Lewis Financial Services (trading as John Lewis Card Services) 
didnt do enough to recover money nor protect her from the financial harm caused by a 
binary options trading scam company. 
What happened
Mrs M was looking for part-time work online when she came across an advert on a well-
known recruitment website. The advert was looking for someone to become a trader who 
could spare a few hours each week. Mrs M clicked on the advert and 365 Binary Options 
explained it was an investment opportunity to invest in protected trades and she could 
withdraw her money when she wishes. Mrs M was asked to provide her ID documents as 
part of what she believed to be an investment opportunity. 
Mrs M says an adviser for 365 Binary Options told her that she would need to start with her 
own investment capital but they advised they would match her investment with a bonus.  
Between 8 August 2017 to 17 August 2017, Mrs M made five payments totalling £7,400 
(using her John Lewis Mastercard credit card) to 365 Binary Options. 
Mrs M said all of the communication at the point of each payment was done with 365 Binary 
Options over the phone. She says they reassured her she would be able to make an income. 
Mrs M tried to withdraw all her money but 365 Binary Options didnt allow her to do so. They 
told her she first had to trade 40 times the bonus amount applied to her account. Mrs M 
didnt understand why as she didnt want to withdraw the bonus funds, just her own 
investment. She made attempts to contact 365 Binary Options and did not receive any 
satisfactory responses. By January 2018, Mrs M realised shed fallen victim to a scam and 
approached John Lewis for assistance with recovering her funds.
  
John Lewis looked into things and concluded Mrs M had no chargeback or s.75 options. It 
also didnt flag any of the transactions as unusual. Unhappy with its response, Mrs M 
referred her complaint to this service.
 
One of our investigators concluded first of all, that 365 Binary Options was a scam company. 
And Mrs M had valid s.75 claims. John Lewis didnt agree. It said in summary:
The investigators view lacked clarity and made it difficult to understand what 
happened between Mrs Ms final payment and approaching John Lewis in January 
2018. 
In regards to the s.75 conclusions, the assertions made are generic and it is familiar 
with the wording contained in numerous opinions it has received from this service 
relating to trading platforms. They do not apply specifically to the facts of this matter 
and is an unhelpful tick-box, formulaic approach, not one that is decided on what is 
fair and reasonable. 
A warning from the FCA and negative reviews and testimonies available online do 
not support a false statement of fact in the present case is evidenced. To state you 
might make money is not a statement of fact but rather a possibility. We have not 
established that it was demonstrably false (i.e. that there was no possible chance 
that one might make money on the platform), or when it was made (it must have 
been made before Mrs Ms first payment). 
Theres no evidence the merchant breached contractual obligations. 
The case has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that this complaint should be upheld and Ill 
explain why. 
Ive first considered that Mrs M had no valid chargeback rights because the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme significantly limits any chargeback options related to investments or 
gambling.
 
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mrs Ms complaint on the 
basis that John Lewis is liable to her under s.75. As a starting point, its useful to set out 
what the Act actually says: 
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
a) under a non-commercial agreement, 
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
To summarise there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
Ill deal with each requirement or exclusion in turn. First, there doesnt seem to be any 
dispute that a credit card account is a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under the 
Act. And, Im satisfied here there is nothing that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain  
insomuch and whilst there are three parties involved:
1. Mrs M (the debtor)
2. John Lewis (the creditor); 
3. 365 Binary Options (the supplier)  as shown on Mrs Ms paperwork and on John 
Lewis business file submissions. 
The second consideration is whether the transaction is financed by the agreement. 
Transaction isnt defined by the Act, but it has generally been given a wide interpretation by the courts  to include whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of a deal. Here, Mrs M has 
deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those funds on an 
investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when she wished. Each 
subsequent deposit was made as a way of Mrs M earning more profits, with a view of 
withdrawing each subsequent deposit-transaction as and when she wished. Given the 
exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im satisfied there was a 
transaction for each of the deposits (which Ill call the deposit-transactions) as defined by 
the Act. 
Again to finance is not defined under the Act. An ordinary definition would be to provide 
funds to do something. In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank plc [2004] Miss Justice 
Gloster said in a passage with which the Court of Appeal agreed The phrase to finance 
approaching the matter in a common sense way must mean provide financial 
accommodation in respect of A credit card issuer clearly provides financial 
accommodation to its cardholder, in relation to her purchases from suppliers, because he is 
given time to pay for her purchase under the terms of the credit card agreement.  
Applying that ordinary definition here, if Mrs M had not used her credit card she would have 
had to find the cash from her own resources to fund the deposit transactions and obtain the 
investment account this supposedly entitled her to. So, its clear that the deposit-transactions 
were financed by the agreement. 
Third, the claim must relate to the transaction. Its important to consider what Mrs Ms claim 
is here. Its evident from her testimony and correspondence she provided that she feels she 
was tricked into depositing the payments with 365 Binary Options for the dual purpose of:
a) Stealing the deposit money; and
b) Encouraging Mrs M to deposit larger amounts. 
Mrs M does not believe that 365 Binary Options was operating legitimately and believes she 
was misled into thinking they were.
This claim  that Mrs M was misled into depositing funds is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transactions. The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract.  In this case, if Mrs M was told by 365 Binary Options matters that were factually 
untrue in order to trick her into entering into the deposit-transactions, her claim would be for 
misrepresentation. Or, if the merchant made binding promises to her as part of those 
transactions and went on to breach these that would make her claim one for breach of 
contract.  
Finally, the claim mustnt relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash price 
of less than £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of the deposit-transaction is 
the value of that deposit-transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the 
contract. 
John Lewis has declined the claim under s.75 because it says that Mrs M was paying into a 
binary options account and these are classed as a form of gambling by the UKs Gambling 
Commission. The deposits were not for the purchase of goods/services, they were a credit to 
their trading account. I take this to mean that the deposit was nothing more than transferring 
money onto another account, opened for the purpose of speculating with the money, rather 
than being a payment that was used to purchase goods. When funds are deposited onto a 
trading account this isnt necessarily just a transfer of money between accounts, it may also 
have been paid in return for something. In this case 365 Binary Options has made 
contractual promises in exchange for the deposit. John Lewis in its refusal to accept liability 
under s.75 havent quoted the Act itself. It is important to note that s.75 doesnt use the term purchase of goods or services nor is there anything within the Act that would exclude the 
present type of transaction.  
John Lewis suggests that if 365 Binary Options were scammers, Mrs M couldnt benefit from 
s.75 protection. Whether there was a contract for the supply of services depends on the 
dealings between the supplier and the consumer, seen objectively, not on either partys 
subjective intentions or the honesty/dishonesty of their motivation. In other words, it is 
perfectly possible for 365 Binary Options to have tricked Mrs M into entering into an 
agreement they never had any ability or intention to carry out.  If that occurs, 365 Binary 
Options and Mrs M have entered into a contract, but it has been procured by 365 Binary 
Options dishonest misrepresentation and Mrs M has claims in law for her losses suffered as 
a result of having entered into the agreement.  
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that s.75 does apply to the credit card deposit-
transactions. 
Ill therefore go on to consider whether Mrs M has a valid claim for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider Mrs M has made a claim of misrepresentation by 365 Binary Options  that claim 
being that they represented to her that they were a legitimate enterprise when this was not 
the case.
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show not just a false 
statement of fact but also that the statement induced Mrs M into entering into an agreement. 
A false statement of fact
If Im satisfied that the merchant was not likely to be operating a legitimate enterprise - one 
in which Mrs M could have ever received back more money than she deposited, then it 
follows that any statements made by the merchant to the contrary are likely to be a 
misrepresentation.
So, the mere suggestion that Mrs M could make money from the platform is likely to suffice 
as entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it operated a 
legitimate business, i.e. a legitimate trading platform on which investors could profitably 
trade. And, Im satisfied that based on Mrs Ms account of events and the nature of the 
situation, 365 Binary Options did claim that Mrs M could have made money from the trading 
platform. 
That induced her into entering the agreement
Again, had Mrs M known that the trading platform was essentially a scam designed to relieve 
investors of their money, rather than a legitimate service, theres really little question of her 
not investing with 365 Binary Options. Consequently, should I be satisfied that 365 Binary 
Options isnt operating a legitimate enterprise then inducement will also be demonstrated.
Was the merchant operating a legitimate enterprise?
Before discussing this in more detail, I should mention that Ive found Mrs Ms account of 
events both detailed and compelling. But more than this, its corroborated not just by other 
complaints of this nature but specific complaints against 365 Binary Options. Because of this 
Im minded to find her account to be truthful.So, turning to her account, I note that shes mentioned coming into contact with 365 Binary 
Options after clicking on an online advert apparently supported by a well-known recruitment 
website. Ive seen many similar adverts that are seemingly supported by either well-known 
celebrities or advertised on trusted websites  for which there has been significant press 
coverage. So, the fact 365 Binary Options was using a recruitment website to advertise their 
services as a potential job opportunity immediately gives me cause for concern.
Theres a body of external information available through various regulators, law enforcement 
agencies, government agencies, press cuttings and the card schemes that repeat the tactics 
used by 365 Binary Options. Which does lead me to seriously question whether any actual 
trades were being placed on the outcomes of financial markets or whether in fact the 
merchant is offering little more than a video game or simulation.
Ive noted regulators published warnings about 365 Binary Options as follows: 
On 11 May 2017, Australian Securities and Investments Commission 
On 11 October 2018, Central Bank of Ireland 
On 14 August 2018, the FCA who noted - We believe this firm has been providing 
financial services or products in the UK without our authorisation. Find out why to be 
especially wary of dealing with this unauthorised firm and how to protect yourself 
from scammers.
Ive also noted that binary options traders offering services in the UK were required to be 
licensed by the UKs Gambling Commission, it said in 2016 that an unlicensed operator is 
likely acting illegally. Ive noted 365 Binary Options were not licensed in the UK or abroad as 
far as Im reasonably aware. 
365 Binary Options is no longer operating and has not operated for some time. There are 
also several online reviews from victims that share very similar experiences to that of Mrs 
Ms.
I would also question the legitimacy of any investment broker pressuring consumers into 
using credit - as 365 Binary Options did here - to invest in products that could lose money. 
Next, is the refusal to allow withdrawals from the platform  again a complaint repeated 
across many complaints against similar firms. I note Mrs Ms was verbally told by 365 Binary 
Options that her funds would be matched with bonus funds from the companies own 
reserves; that shed be investing in protected trades; and that shed be able to withdraw her 
funds as an when she wishes. But when the payments were made, 365 Binary Options 
moved the goal post of being able to withdraw funds as and when she wished to only once 
she had traded 40 x the bonus. Ive seen many similar clauses in contracts and whilst the 
inclusion of such a clause is linked to the bonus funds, this often does not apply to the 
consumers own capital. Seemingly 365 Binary Options has simply stopped responding to 
Mrs M despite a verbal agreement that she could withdraw funds whenever she wished. Ive 
noted John Lewis concerns about the time gap between Mrs M requesting to withdraw all of 
her funds to realising shed fallen victim to a scam. But I dont think this is material to my 
findings on s.75 and what the parties agreed to in exchange for Mrs Ms deposit-
transactions.
 
Taking all of this together, I dont think its likely 365 Binary Options was operating a 
legitimate enterprise. This means that I think they have made misrepresentations to Mrs M  
specifically that they were running a genuine enterprise through which she could ever have 
got back more than her deposits from the platform. Im also satisfied that if Mrs M had known 
this, she wouldnt have deposited any money, so she was induced into the contract on the 
basis of these misrepresentations.Breach of contract 
Here, Mrs M has deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use 
those funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when she 
wished. Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im 
satisfied there was a transaction (the deposit-transaction) as defined by s.75.
It follows, I think, that 365 Binary Options had contractual obligations:
a) To enable Mrs M to use the funds from her deposit-transactions on an investment 
platform;
and 
b) To enable Mrs M to withdraw the funds deposited as and when she wished.
Mrs M wasnt permitted to withdraw the funds from her trading account. She might have 
made losses or profits from her investment  so a breach of the former term has not  on the 
balance of probabilities  caused her to lose trading profits and she would (on balance) have 
been left no better or worse off than when she made the deposit-transactions.   
It follows that as a breach of contract can be identified, Mrs Ms loss amounts to the full 
amount of each of the deposit-transactions.
To briefly address John Lewis comments on receiving the same outcomes on numerous 
occasions from this service on binary trading cases. It shouldn't be surprised to receive 
similar outcomes on cases with similar features. As it knows these scams broadly follow the 
same pattern to lure people into what they are led to believe is a genuine investment. Where 
we find a credit card has been used to pay the scammers directly, we will consider whether 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract has occurred in accordance with s.75. We have 
found that in a number of cases, the outcomes will invariably be the same, bar some 
individual circumstances. 
It is reminded of its obligations to comply with DISP 1.4.2G  to appropriately analyse 
Ombudsman decisions concerning similar complaints it receives and DISP 1.3.2A  to 
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling. 
Putting things right
Ive established two grounds Mrs M could have recovered her deposit-transactions:
Misrepresentation: Im satisfied Mrs M has a claim for misrepresentation on the 
grounds that 365 Binary Option made a series of misrepresentations, namely that 
they was operating a legitimate enterprise and that Mrs M could access her money 
freely and earn a profit from her deposit-transactions. 
Breach of contract: Im satisfied Mrs M also has a claim for breach of contract as the 
merchant breached the verbal promises to Mrs M. Namely that she would be able to 
use the funds from her deposit-transactions on an investment platform and access 
them freely  when she wished.  This provides another basis for recovery of the 
deposit-transactions. 
Im satisfied a claim under misrepresentation ought to succeed here so John Lewis should 
put Mrs M back into the position she would have been had the deposit-transactions totalling 
£7,400 had not been entered into. So, she should receive refunds of these amounts.My final decision
My final decision is that John Lewis Financial Services (trading as John Lewis Card 
Services) should refund Mrs M the deposit-transactions, plus interest. It should:
- Refund the deposit-transactions, less any amounts credited by 365 Binary Options; 
- Pay 8% interest on those sums from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement.
If John Lewis deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should provide 
Mrs M with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman