DRN-3722496
The complaint
Mr W complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) handling of his claim 
and valuation of his car following a collision, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W was involved in a collision when driving his car. Admiral accepted his claim and 
considered his car to be a total loss. Mr W says there were delays from the beginning in the 
handling of his claim. He was told his belongings would be returned and they werent until he 
raised concerns. Mr W also says a spare wheel was an optional extra with his car and this 
wasnt returned to him.    
When corresponding with Admiral and its repairer Mr W says it failed to recognise that he 
has a visual processing disorder.
Admiral agreed with the concerns raised by Mr W and offered £120 compensation for the 
trouble and upset it caused. 
Mr W didnt think the compensation offered was sufficient. So, he referred his complaint to 
our service. Our investigator upheld Mr Ws complaint. He thought £300 compensation was 
fairer to acknowledge the distress he was caused. He says the initial valuation of Mr Ws car 
seemed too low based on the industry trade guides hed seen. But this was increased after 
he disputed the valuation and he thought Admirals final offer was fair.   
Mr W didnt agree with this outcome. He says hes still receiving correspondence on white 
paper with black lettering. Mr W says he wants at least double the amount of compensation 
our investigator thought was fair and says the issue of his spare tyre has been ignored. 
Admiral accepted our investigators findings but because Mr W didnt agree the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I wont be adding to the 
compensation our investigator thought was reasonable. I understand this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr W, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Im sorry Mr Ws car was considered a total loss as a result of the collision he was involved 
in. Ive looked at the policy terms to understand what Admiral is expected to pay in these 
circumstances. The terms say:
What we will pay
If we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the vehicle.
The terms define market value as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
When looking to see if an insurer has behaved fairly, we dont provide a valuation, but rather 
we look to see whether the offer the insurer made is reasonable. To assess whether a 
reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from the motor trade guides. These 
guides are used by the industry for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to 
be persuasive because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales 
figures. The guides also consider regional variations.
I can see that Admiral referred to the trade guides and offered £6,640 minus the policy 
excess. From its records the range of values it obtained was between £5,996 and £6,640. 
Admiral confirms it offered the top end of the range of valuations.
Our investigator obtained valuations from four trade guides. These ranged from £6,275 up to 
£6,700. He thought the valuation Admiral proposed was fair, based on the range of values 
he obtained. Ive checked to see what information was used. I can see that he included the 
correct make, model, age, and mileage of his car. I can also that he looked at the retail 
transacted valuations, not the trade prices, which is what Id expect. 
The average of our valuations is slightly more than Admiral offered. But its offer falls within 
this range of values and Im mindful that valuing second-hand cars isnt an exact science. 
So, I cant say Admirals offer was unfair.
Turning to Mr Ws concerns about the handling of his claim, I can see from the records 
provided by Admiral that he was told his car would be taken to its approved garage for 
assessment. However, this didnt happen on the date he was initially advised. Admiral says it 
allows up to 48 working hours for a customers car to be delivered to the repairing garage. 
But it accepts the garage promised Mr W this would happen sooner and so didnt handle his 
expectations well here.
 
Admiral says there was a delay in the estimate for the repairs being completed. It 
acknowledges Mr Ws comments that he lost earnings as a result of this. It also says its 
prepared to consider these losses on receipt of evidence. 
From what I have read Mr Ws car was delivered to Admirals approved garage in a 
reasonable timeframe. This was within the 48 working hours Admiral says it expects a 
delivery to take. I dont think it took an excessive amount of time to get Mr Ws car to the 
garage and so I dont think he was treated unfairly. However, Admiral says it will consider 
loss of earnings if Mr W provides evidence. I think this is reasonable.
Admiral says all of its approved garages were very busy around the time it was handling Mr 
Ws claim. It says a valuation was provided within its expected timeframes, but this couldve 
been quicker had the garage not been so busy. 
From first reporting his loss to Admiral to receiving a valuation for his car took around nine 
days. The accident must have been upsetting for Mr W. I understand that he was frustrated 
that the timeframes advised by the garage, werent met. But overall, I dont think the time 
taken to assess the damage and provide a settlement offer for his car was unfair. Its 
reasonable to expect an insurer to be able to assess and consider the value of the car 
before confirming a payment offer. I can see that Admiral accepts Mr Ws account of the difficulties he had contacting its 
garage. It says it also tried to call the garage and had similar issues. Admiral also accepts Mr 
W explained that he needs a yellow background to be used on any written correspondence 
due to his visual disorder. It says it will ensure feedback is provided on this issue internally. It 
also accepts it didnt inform its garage of Mr Ws requirement.
From the records I can see that Mr W made Admiral aware of his visual disorder shortly after 
he reported the accident. Its reasonable to expect Admiral to act on this information and 
adjust its written communication to accommodate Mr Ws needs. It should also have made 
sure its garage was aware of this requirement. I can understand that it was frustrating for Mr 
W, as he couldnt read the information he was sent, and he had to reiterate his requirements 
more than once. 
I note Admiral accepts it didnt manage Mr Ws expectations when telling him when it would 
provide a valuation. It says the valuation was provided within its expected timeframes, but it 
acknowledges he was told this would happen more quickly than it did. 
As discussed, I think the overall timeframe from reporting the claim to confirming the 
valuation was reasonable. But I accept Mr Ws expectations couldve been managed better 
by Admiral. 
In response to Mr Ws concerns about the first agent he spoke to on the phone  Admiral 
accepts Mr W was told several times he would be considered at fault for the accident. It says 
the agent couldve been more helpful, for which it apologised.
I can see Mr W was concerned that he was told his personal belongings would be returned, 
and then being told the opposite. I understand his belongings have since been returned to 
him. Admiral says its the customers responsibility to arrange collection of any personal 
items. But as Mr W was given incorrect information about this, it arranged for them to be 
returned in his case.  
Mr W says the spare tyre in his car was an optional extra and that it should be returned to 
him. Admiral says Mr W can collect it from the salvage company if he chooses to, but it is too 
large to arrange delivery to his address. 
Ive thought about whether this is fair. I think it is. I say this because although Mr W refers to 
the spare tyre as an optional extra, this was still part of the car. In providing a settlement 
payment to Mr W Admiral effectively took ownership of the salvage, which includes the spare 
tyre/wheel. I think its reasonable that he was offered the opportunity to collect it, but Im not 
persuaded it was reasonable for Admiral to pay the delivery cost. 
Having considered all of this I dont think Admiral treated Mr W unfairly when offering the 
settlement payment, it did. I dont think it treated him fairly when it failed to acknowledge his 
visual disorder and continued to provide correspondence that he couldnt read. And when 
not informing the approved garage of this requirement. Admiral also managed Mr Ws 
expectations poorly on several occasions, and he found it difficult to make contact. For these 
reasons I think £300 compensation is fair. 
I realise Mr W will be disappointed. By no means is my intention to diminish the upset he 
experienced. But based on what Ive seen I think this represents a fair outcome and is in line 
with awards our service has made in similar circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should:pay Mr W £300 compensation for the upset, frustration, and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman