DRN-1618975
The complaint 
Mrs G complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold payment protection insurance to 
her alongside a store card in 2001. 
I appreciate that the PPI was linked to a card Mrs G had for a clothing store. However, AXA 
is responsible for complaints like this about those store cards. For ease of reference, Ill refer 
to AXA for the rest of this decision. 
Background 
Mrs Gs store card account was opened on 27 January 2001 after an application form was 
completed in-store. On 30 April 2001, the PPI policy was added to the account. Mrs G paid 
premiums for this policy from that date up to 31 October 2001. The store-card account was 
closed in 2009. All in all, Mrs G paid £24.48 in respect of those PPI premiums. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Through her representatives, 
Mrs G disagreed with that view. AXA had told us that the cover was sold over the telephone. 
Mrs G said that wasnt right because the only dealings shed had about the card had been 
in-store. And when she applied for the store card, she didnt apply for PPI. 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G, but I havent upheld the complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The first issue Ive dealt with is how the PPI came to be sold to Mrs G. Ive had the benefit of 
seeing a copy of the application form that was completed when the store care was taken out. 
And Mrs G had put a line through the PPI part of that form, indicating that she didnt want the 
policy. PPI was then added to the account around three months later. 
AXA says the cover was sold over the phone after the account was opened. Mrs G says this 
is not right. I dont doubt that what Mrs G told us is what she honestly recalls about what 
happened back then. But I also have to take into account that it is difficult to remember 
precisely what happened almost 20 years ago  which is when this policy was sold. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think Mrs G most likely did agree to the PPI after receiving a 
telephone call from AXA once her account was open. I say this because the PPI premiums 
would have appeared on her card statements from April onwards. And if the cover had been 
added without her consent or knowledge, I think Mrs G would have queried these charges at 
the time. The evidence before me doesnt suggest she did. So, on balance, I think the cover was probably added after a telephone conversation between Mrs G and AXA and that Mrs G 
knew the cover would be added to her account. 
I dont think this was an advised sale. So that means AXA had to give Mrs G enough 
information about the cover so she could decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her 
needs. That information should have been clear, fair and not misleading. 
In the absence of a recording of the sales call, I think its quite possible that AXA didnt tell 
Mrs G everything it should have done about the cover. But that doesnt mean I can 
automatically uphold her complaint. I have to consider what she would have done if AXA had 
given her enough information. And to help me decide on that point, Ive looked at the terms 
 and conditions of the cover. Ive also looked carefully at what she told us about her personal 
circumstances at the relevant time. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on this PPI policy, 10% of Mrs Gs card balance 
would have been repaid each month for a maximum of 12 months. Mrs G told us that she 
had no sick pay and so it follows that the PPI would have covered her for longer than her 
sick pay. I appreciate that Mrs G said a family member would be able to help her out if she 
ran into financial trouble. I dont doubt it would have been the intention of that family member 
to assist in that situation. But circumstances can change and theres no guarantee that help 
would have been available to Mrs G as and when she needed it. 
Mrs G told us she was in good health at the time this cover was sold, so I dont think she 
would have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. Our 
adjudicator also clarified with Mrs Gs representative that she was in full-time work at the 
time. I havent seen anything unusual about her wider circumstances that would have 
stopped her from being able to make a successful claim if she needed to. 
Taking all of this into account, I can see how PPI could have been helpful to Mrs G if she did 
find herself out of work. I dont think she would have acted differently if shed been given 
more or better information about the cover. It follows then that I dont uphold the complaint 
and I dont need to tell AXA to take any further action. 
My final decision 
I dont uphold this complaint about AXA France IARD. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman