DRN-3590488
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Digital Moneybox Limited trading as Moneybox (DML) delayed the 
sale of her shares and because of this she has lost out financially. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Below, 
I have highlighted some key dates I think are relevant to the complaint:
23 January 2022: Mrs M submits her withdrawal request.
24 January 2022: DML approve the withdrawal request.
25 January 2022: the withdrawal was submitted for execution and traded.
28 January 2022: funds were transferred to Mrs Ms nominated bank account. 
DML has offered £80 for what happened. Our investigator looked into the complaint and said 
this offer was fair and reasonable under the circumstances. But Mrs M is seeking an 
increased amount of compensation. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the 
following reasons.
All parties agree that there was a delay in executing Mrs Ms withdrawal request. When a 
business has caused a delay, I must firstly consider if there was any financial impact. Mrs M 
has said she wanted to sell her shares due to market volatility and she heavily relied on 
DMLs FAQs in making her decision. 
The FAQs state: when selling investments you may receive back a little more or less than 
you have chosen to withdraw. This is because prices change daily and it will take one 
working day to process the sale of your funds. 
I do agree with Mrs Ms interpretation of this statement and I dont think its unreasonable 
that she expected the sale of her shares to be processed in one working day.  Having said 
that, DML has said it didnt execute the sale of the shares sooner because it was required to 
carry out anti money laundering checks. 
A financial firm like DML acts under several obligations. It is responsible to look after the 
money and assets that its customers entrust it to. And it must comply with anti-money 
laundering and terrorist finance requirements. When financial firms make these checks it can 
be frustrating for the customer but there are good reasons for them to be done  they ought 
to be thought of as a necessary inconvenience. 
DML had a duty to ensure it was abiding by the laws and regulations relevant to its business. 
Ive seen a copy of its process and Im satisfied it acted in line with this. Mrs M has said she 
understands why these checks are necessary, but she is unhappy that this isnt made clear 
in DMLs FAQs. Had she have known it mightve taken longer than one working day to 
execute the sale of her shares she wouldnt have instructed DML to withdraw them. DML 
accepts it took slightly longer to complete Mrs Ms request than it shouldve but for reasons 
I think are justified. Because of this it offered to put Mrs M back in the position she wouldve 
been in had the sale of the shares executed one day earlier than they did. 
Mrs M wanted to sell her shares and it appears DML acted on the instruction promptly. 
Selling an investment is time sensitive so I can appreciate why DML accepted this instruction 
without full checks being complete. DML has accepted it caused a delay and calculated the 
difference and rounded up its offer of compensation to £80 to account for the impact its 
delay caused. I accept there was a delay, but Im satisfied DML explained things clearly to 
Mrs M and its checks were reasonable.   
I recognise the delay wouldve been frustrating for Mrs M and she has explained the toll this 
matter has taken on her. But I think this is a fair sum offered and Im not inclined to say DML 
should pay any more. Overall, I think it was right to try work within its obligations and cannot 
see that it has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
My final decision
Digital Moneybox Limited trading as Moneybox has already made an offer to pay £80 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is 
that Digital Moneybox Limited trading as Moneybox should pay £80. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman