DRN-4490007
The complaint
Ms B complains that Match the Cash Limited trading as www.Guarantormyloan.co.uk 
(Match the Cash) irresponsibly gave her a loan that she couldnt afford in 2020. 
What happened
On 19 February 2020, Ms B applied for a loan with Match the Cash. The loan amount was 
£7,250, the term was 60 months and the monthly repayment was £283.26. 
In 2023, Ms B complained to Match the Cash to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened because it wasnt affordable and that Match the Cash ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances before giving her credit. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. Match the Cash didnt agree. So, 
the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 30 November 2023, a section 
of which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision, I set 
out the reasons why it was my intention not to uphold Ms Bs complaint. I set out an extract 
below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Match the Cash will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information 
about our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Ms Bs complaint is that Match the Cash made credit available that was unaffordable. 
Match the Cash has explained that it relied in part on information that Ms B provided at 
the time of application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in 
Ms Bs name to assess Ms Bs level of debt at that time and to understand how she had 
been managing that debt. And I have seen the results of that credit search and the 
income and expenditure exercise that was performed at that time. With that information 
and using their own scoring metric, and after discussions with Ms B, Match the Cash 
decided to agree to the credit limit of £7,250. So, there was some assessment of 
affordability at the time of the sale. 
Match the Cash thinks their checks were proportionate. Our investigator thought so too, 
as do I. But, Im not persuaded that the lending was irresponsible. Ill explain why I say 
that.
I have noted that Ms Bs credit file was not entirely clean at the time of the loan 
application. When I say this, I mean that Ms Bs management of her existing credit was 
not devoid of any historic adverse markings. But Ive noted that Ms Bs credit report 
showed no recent history of bankruptcy, IVAs or defaults. Ms Bs credit report showed no 
evidence of any cash advances being taken in the previous 12 months and no new 
accounts had opened in the past six months. So, whilst there was some historic evidence 
of financial difficulty, the situation that Match the Cash had presented to it in February 
2020 was different. Ms Bs contemporaneous performance was improved such that the 
recent credit performance was largely clean. 
I have noted that Ms B already had some credit at this time. And Ive noted that some of it 
was to be repaid by this loan. Ms B was living at home with her parents. Ms B provided 
bank statements at the time to confirm her income. Ms Bs income was not modest in 
comparison to her committed expenditure, including the cost of servicing her existing 
credit. Thinking about these things, Im not persuaded that Match the Cash had sufficient 
reason not to lend money to Ms B or that the new borrowing was sufficient to be 
automatically unreasonable.  
And so, having considered all of the above, I do not think that the credit position was such 
that Match the Cash should have avoided any further lending to Ms B. 
In saying that I have also had consideration for the purpose of the loan. The purpose of 
the loan was almost entirely for debt consolidation. The bulk of the new loan was to repay 
the first loan Match the Cash had provided to help Ms B buy a car. The remainder was 
available to be used to pay down historic debt. So, I dont see the 2020 loan as evidence 
solely of new credit being provided by Match the Cash, adding to an already large amount 
of personal borrowing. 
Instead, rather than the new credit adding to Ms Bs burden of credit, in terms of total debt 
and the monthly cost of servicing that debt, it looks like Ms B was taking steps, that could 
be termed sensible, to manage her existing debt by taking out this loan and using it to pay 
off other debts, some of which were presumably on less favourable terms. So, having 
considered all the details of this complaint, it doesnt seem automatically unreasonable for 
Match the Cash to have facilitated all of that. 
Having considered all the submissions in this case, particularly those at the time of the 
lending decision, I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint. I have 
seen insufficient evidence to think that the credit Match the Cash are responsible for was 
unreasonable.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 14 December 2023. Match the Cash has not yet acknowledged 
the provisional decision. But Ms B has. Ms B has disagreed with those provisional findings 
and has made a further submission challenging the provisional findings. 
I am grateful to Ms B for responding so quickly to the provisional findings. Having reviewed 
the case file again in its entirety, I do not think it prejudicial to Match the Cash for me to 
proceed to a final decision in this complaint, without a further submission from them. So, I 
am proceeding to my final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms Bs previous loan with Match the Cash has been raised as a separate 
complaint. It is right that I say nothing about that here. 
But Ms B thinks Match the Cash were wrong to have approached her through marketing to 
take out this loan and then to have lent to her irresponsibly. Ms B has also pointed out that 
whilst her recent credit history was free of adverse markings, this didnt mean she was not 
struggling. 
This complaint has been about irresponsible lending. Having considered all of the details of 
this case afresh, I still think, for the reasons given in my provisional decision and repeated 
above, that this loan was not irresponsibly lent. And I have seen nothing remiss in itself in a 
loan company marketing their services to an existing customer in the particular 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ms B has been gracious in acknowledging my provisional findings and I thank her for that. 
Ms B has also been a strong advocate for her case, highlighting the parts of her 
circumstances that aid her argument. I would like to assure Ms B that I have noted her 
comments. And I considered all those aspects of the complaint before reaching my 
provisional findings. In particular I thought about the returned direct debits and the missed 
payments that Ms B mentioned specifically. 
I have considered all the details presented to me in reaching my determination. I did not 
think that these were sufficient in themselves to outweigh the other parts of the evidence 
from the time that suggested the lending was not unreasonable. 
The aspects of the complaint that Ms B has highlighted in her latest submission, were all 
things that were raised during the investigation of the complaint and which I had considered 
before reaching my provisional decision. So, as neither party has provided any new 
information or argument for me to consider following my provisional decision, I have no 
reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons (above) for 
not upholding Ms Bs complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
So, having looked again at all the submissions made in this complaint afresh, including Ms 
Bs latest submission, I have still seen insufficient reason to uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman