DRN-3624438
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc restricted and closed his accounts. Hed like the 
accounts reopened and compensation for the impact on him.
What happened
Mr D had five accounts with HSBC. 
On 2 September 2020 Mr D visited his local HSBC branch and asked to withdraw £11,000. 
He wanted to take the money to Iran to use for renovations on his family home. 
HSBC explained to Mr D that Iran was a sanctioned currently  meaning no funds could be 
taken or transferred to the country. They asked Mr D some further questions about the 
transaction  this is where Mr D and HSBC disagree.
HSBC says Mr D advised them that hes inherited the property, and some of the rooms at 
the property were rented out. Mr D denies this, and says it was the family home which he 
doesnt own  but the funds were for renovations. 
Mr D explains he didnt realise he couldnt take funds to Iran  and hes never made any 
transfers to the country before. 
On 14, 15 and 20 October 2020 HSBC sent Mr D further follow up questions about the 
attempted withdrawal and the property in Iran. Mr D responded and explained to HSBC that 
he doesnt own the property in Iran  and doesnt receive a rental income. 
At the time of the current account restriction Mr D had just under £4,000 in his account  
HSBC unrestricted Mr Ds account and the funds were transferred out to him on 
27 October 2020. 
HSBC explained that Mr D applied for a loan with the bank in May 2020, and was lent 
£25,000. At the time he advised it was for a motor vehicle  but whilst having further 
conversations with HSBC in October 2020 he explained it was for a holiday to France. 
HSBC decided in October 2020 theyd close Mr Ds accounts, and provided him with notice 
on 10 November 2020 that three of his accounts would be closed on 10 January 2021. The 
remainder were closed with two months notice in May 2021.  
Mr D wasnt happy with HSBCs actions  so complained to the bank. HSBC didnt uphold 
his complaint  they said theyd acted fairly in restricting his funds, and closing his accounts 
 and theyd followed their sanctions policy. 
Mr D brought his complaint to our service. Mr D explained he thought HSBC had 
discriminated against him because of his nationality. 
It was reviewed by one of our investigators. Although they thought HSBC could have been a 
little quicker in arranging his account closures, they thought the bank had acted fairly in 
restricting Mr Ds account and closing his accounts. Our investigator said HSBC had 
followed their sanctions policy, and because of Mr Ds inconsistent accounts theyd acted 
fairly in closing his accounts. 
Mr D didnt agree. He explained he didnt tell HSBC that he owned or rented the property in 
Iran  and its not fair for them to close his accounts purely because of a change in reason 
for the loan funds. 
As Mr D didnt agree the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account restriction
HSBC restricted Mr Ds account on 2 September 2020, and his main current account 
remained restricted until it was closed in January 2021. 
Ive checked the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account. In summary, section 6 states
that HSBC can block Mr Ds use of any payment device if they believe its necessary for 
three reasons including criminal use and security concerns. And Im satisfied that HSBC 
have evidence they had legitimate concerns here that they might breach their legal and 
regulatory obligations.
Although I appreciate that Mr D is unhappy that restrictions were placed on his account
businesses have a legal obligation to protect the security of their accounts and to comply
with various laws and regulations. Mr D agreed to this term as a customer and Im satisfied 
its a reasonable term. Im satisfied that HSBC were acting in line with their legal and 
regulatory obligations and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account when 
it reviewed Mr Ds account. It follows, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong when it initially 
blocked Mr Ds account and didnt allow him access to his funds. 
Ive also considered the length of time Mr Ds account was blocked for. And HSBCs actions 
when releasing Mr Ds funds. Mr Ds account was first restricted on the 2 September 2020. 
And HSBC provided Mr D with the opportunity to provide alternative details to withdraw his 
funds in late October 2020  On 27 October 2020 Mr Ds funds were returned to him.
Account closure
Mr Ds argued that HSBC discriminated against him when closing his account  specifically 
because of his nationality. Although HSBC gave Mr D over 60 days notice of the closure of 
his account, because the account was restricted it was effectively closed with immediate 
notice, therefore I need to consider whether the bank acted fairly in applying their terms. 
Its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for 
the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. In order to 
decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into account including relevant law 
and what we consider having been good industry practice at the time. The relevant 
legislation here is the Equality Act 2010, and Ive taken this into consideration. I understand 
this will disappoint Mr D but having done so I think HSBC have acted reasonably when 
applying the terms of Mr Ds account.
Mr D responded to our investigators view by arguing that he didnt tell HSBC he owned the 
property in Iran  or that it was rented out. And hes argued now that hes aware hes unable to take funds to Iran, he wont do it. Ive considered these points, but they dont change what 
Ive explained above. I say this because I think, on looking at the documentary evidence 
provided by HSBC, that on balance Mr D did say he owned the property and planned to rent 
it out. But, even if he didnt I think HSBC had legitimate concerns about Mr Ds decision to 
attempt to take funds to Iran  and the inconsistency hes displayed when taking out the 
loan. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above I wont be asking HSBC to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman