DRN-3709061
The complaint
Mrs E and Mr E complain Barclays Bank UK PLC failed properly to respond to their concerns 
theyd treated their residential mortgage as a buy to let mortgage, wrongly disclosed their 
personal data, and put them in a potentially difficult position with HMRC.
What happened
In 2000 Mrs E and Mr E re-mortgaged from their existing lender to a company Ill call W, for 
£60,000 on an interest only basis over a term of 19 years. W was acquired by Barclays 
many years ago and Barclays took the mortgage over. Mrs E and Mr E understood they had 
a residential mortgage. In 2019, when they were arranging to redeem their mortgage, they 
had reason to think a company theyd never heard of, which Ill refer to as T, was involved 
with their mortgage account.
Mrs E and Mr E became concerned their mortgage had been treated as a buy to let (BTL) 
rather than as a residential mortgage, which could have led to them paying higher rates of 
interest and charges; their personal data had been provided to T; and issues could arise 
with HMRC if they thought theyd had BTL mortgages.
Barclays said Mrs E and Mr E had had a residential mortgage. They sent them a copy of 
their mortgage offer and explained how they could request additional documents. They 
said it was difficult to investigate the issues due to the time that had passed. And they 
apologised and offered compensation of £150.
Mrs E and Mr E didnt feel Barclays had responded to all their concerns. And documents 
Barclays then provided were confusing. So, they brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator said Barclays should increase the level of compensation to 
£250 because they hadnt fully responded to the complaint at first. And he said Barclays 
should provide confirmation to Mrs E and Mr E there was no evidence theyd had a BTL 
mortgage.
Barclays acknowledged the time theyd taken to resolve things and agreed to increase 
the compensation to £250. They said it would be more accurate for them to confirm that 
Mrs E and Mr E had had a residential mortgage and it was incorrectly placed on their 
BTL system with T when it was taken over from the original lender. Mrs E and Mr E 
wanted a more detailed explanation from Barclays about what had happened.
Since Mrs E and Mr Es complaint hadnt been resolved, it was passed to me to review 
afresh. I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Since my conclusions and outcome 
differ in part to those of our investigator, Im issuing a provisional decision to give the 
parties time to provide any additional comments or evidence theyd like me to consider.
I understand Mrs E and Mr Es concerns about how Barclays managed their mortgage. 
Ive noted the points Mrs E and Mr E have raised about inconsistencies in documents 
theyve seen. And I acknowledge it will be frustrating they havent had full answers to the 
questions they raised. But its not surprising, given the time thats passed since they took 
their mortgage out, that documents and records, which might have helped provide a 
clearer picture, are no longer available. And I understand its more difficult to get hold of 
documents than it would have been because their account is closed. Im not persuaded 
Barclays have deliberately failed to provide information as Mrs E and Mr E may suspect.
Mrs E and Mr E say they want a better explanation about what happened from Barclays, 
but they havent said what that would contain. Given theres limited information, I dont 
think theres significantly more that Barclays can say. Although Im not certain theyve told 
Mrs E and Mr E about some relevant information they discovered during their 
investigation, which Ill mention.
The mortgage offer Barclays were able to provide shows Mrs E and Mr E were applying to 
re-mortgage in relation to the property they lived at, not a separate property, which 
suggests it was a residential mortgage. Barclays investigations apparently revealed the 
mortgage conditions included terms consistent with it being a residential mortgage. They 
think the mortgage was wrongly put onto one of their BTL management systems when 
they took it over from W. Despite that, another system Barclays operate recognised it as a 
residential mortgage. I understand its from this information that Barclays have concluded 
the mortgage was treated as a residential mortgage.
Its not clear theyve explained all of this to Mrs E and Mr E or provided them with a full 
copy of the mortgage offer containing the terms and conditions they considered. But Im not 
aware of any evidence to contradict Barclays conclusions the mortgage was treated as a 
residential mortgage as it should have been. If Mrs E and Mr E have any evidence about 
that theyd like me to consider, they can provide it in response to this provisional decision.
Barclays have explained their BTL mortgages were set up on two management systems, 
one of which is named T. That explains T was a management system, not a separate 
company. And I think that should reassure Mrs E and Mr E their personal data hasnt 
been shared outside Barclays. Im not aware of any evidence that it has.
Barclays say they can confirm to Mrs E and Mr E that their mortgage was a residential 
mortgage and incorrectly placed on their BTL system, T, when it was taken over from W. I 
think they should also provide the additional explanation Ill set out below.
I dont think Barclays addressed all Mrs E and Mr Es concerns when they initially 
responded, or that their subsequent explanations clarified the outcome of the 
investigations sufficiently. I understand Mrs E and Mr E will have continued to have 
concerns about how their mortgage had been treated and how HMRC might view their 
borrowing. And it will have been inconvenient for them to have had to continue to push for 
an explanation. I think the £250 our investigator recommended, and Barclays are 
prepared to pay, is fair to compensate Mrs E and Mr E for the time and effort its taken to 
get an explanation of what happened from Barclays, and the worry its caused them.
My provisional decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC should write to Mrs E and Mr E confirming their mortgage was a 
residential mortgage and that it was incorrectly placed on their BTL system, T, when it was 
taken over from the original lender. They should also explain how they reached that 
conclusion by setting out the evidence they relied on and provide Mrs E and Mr E with a complete copy of their mortgage offer with the terms and conditions attached if one is still 
available.
Barclays Bank should also pay Mrs E and Mr E £250 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs E and Mr E havent made any comments on my provisional decision. Barclays have 
accepted it. So, I see no reason to change the provisional decision I reached.
Putting things right
I see no reason to change either my provisional view about how to put things right.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC should
1. write to Mrs E and Mr E confirming their mortgage was a residential mortgage and 
that it was incorrectly placed on their BTL system, T, when it was taken over from 
the original lender. They should also explain how they reached that conclusion by 
setting out the evidence they relied on and provide Mrs E and Mr E with a complete 
copy of their mortgage offer with the terms and conditions attached, if one is still 
available; and
 
2. pay Mrs E and Mr E £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman