DRN-3824642
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited (Mulsanne) 
handled his claim following an accident. 
What happened
In June 2022, Mr S wife, a named driver on the insurance policy, was involved in a road 
traffic accident.
Mulsannes agent was notified of the claim on 20 June 2022. The car was collected from 
Mr Ss home to be repaired on 27 June 2022 and the repair was completed on 6 July 2022. 
Mr S wasnt provided with a courtesy car at any point during that period. As some of the 
actions Mr S has complained about were carried out by agents or contractors of Mulsanne, 
for clarity, throughout this decision, I will refer to those actions as being Mulsannes. 
Mulsanne sent their final response letter to Mr S on 2 September 2022, partially upholding 
his complaint. It accepted that errors had been made in relation to the provision of a courtesy 
car and offered £150 compensation by way of an apology. Mr S wasnt happy with the 
amount of compensation, so brought his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr S complaint and recommended the complaint be 
upheld. Our investigator said the offer of £150 wasnt sufficient to compensate Mr S for the 
distress and inconvenience hed suffered. She recommended that the offer of compensation 
be increased to £300. Mr S accepted our investigators opinion but Mulsanne did not. It said 
it didnt feel that level of compensation was warranted in the circumstances and requested 
an ombudsmans decision on the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the final response letter dated 2 September 2022, Mulsanne accepted that Mr S was 
entitled to a courtesy car under the policy terms and conditions, for the duration of the 
repairs. It also acknowledged that if Mr S had been provided with a courtesy car, most of the 
extra calls he had to make to his insurer, and the associated frustration, would have been 
avoided. And Mulsanne agreed that at no point during the period in which the car was being 
repaired was Mr S provided with a replacement car.
As these points are not in dispute, the outstanding issue that remains for me to decide is 
whether the £300 compensation recommended by our investigator would fairly and 
reasonably compensate Mr S for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
In response to our investigators view, Mulsanne said that while Mr S was without a courtesy 
car for 16 days he was able to source another car from his parents and remain mobile for 
that period of time. It therefore couldnt see how hed been caused inconvenience and upset.
However, Mr S told us that his wife was unable to go to work for two days, which resulted in 
lost income for the family. He also explained that had to borrow his elderly parents car to 
take his children to school, which caused them inconvenience and Mr S, embarrassment 
during what was already a stressful time.
Our investigator explained to Mulsanne that Mr S not only didnt get a courtesy car, he also 
had to continuously chase them for a courtesy car which he knew he was entitled to. He was 
also given wrong and conflicting information when he phoned Mulsanne. And while he did 
borrow his parents car, taking the car from them caused him a lot of embarrassment.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, as it is here, I reach my 
decision on the basis of what I think, more likely than not, was the case.
Ive considered all of the evidence afresh and having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator. I dont think Mulsannes offer of £150 goes far enough to 
compensate Mr S for the distress and upset its actions caused. By its own admission, Mr S 
was provided with incorrect information, he was incorrectly denied a courtesy car, and he 
was caused additional inconvenience and frustration as he tried to access what he was 
entitled to under his policy terms and conditions. In addition to this, stress and inconvenience 
his family were caused by the lack of a courtesy car, and the frustration and embarrassment 
he was caused by having to make alternative arrangements also persuade me that 
compensation of £300 would be appropriate in Mr S circumstances. I therefore uphold this 
complaint. 
Putting things right
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Mulsanne Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr S £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered 
as a result of the way it has handled his claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Mulsanne Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr S the award detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman