DRN-3266724
The complaint
Mr Z is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund him payments to made to invest in a trading 
platform he now believes was a scam.
What happened
After seeing some information on social media, Mr Z got in touch with a broker to start 
trading via company I. the broker set out to him how the trading would work and that he 
would get very high returns on his investment. In October 2019, Mr Z sent £700 to company 
I for the broker to trade with. This money was lost and so Mr Z contacted Lloyds to help him 
retrieve his funds.
Lloyds completed a chargeback claim for Mr Z. This was disputed by I, so Lloyds pursued 
the claim through to the final stages with VISA. VISA decided in Is favour and so Mr Z didnt 
get his money refunded. Mr Z complained about this, but Lloyds didnt uphold his complaint 
relating to the chargeback. And it didnt agree it had made a mistake in processing these 
payments.
Mr Z came to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He didnt think 
Lloyds couldve done anything more in relation to the chargeback claim. And he didnt think 
there was a reason for Lloyds not to process Mr Zs payments at the time  there was no 
warnings about I being a scam or fraudulent, in fact the investigator thought it was likely 
there were a legitimate firm. And he didnt think the payments themselves were unusual for 
Mr Z, so that they wouldve flagged up to Lloyds and it shouldve intervened. Mr Z disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsman to review his case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate there are a number of parties involved in this case for Mr Z. But our service only 
has the power to look at Lloyds and this decision only relates to its actions. Mr Z doesnt 
dispute he made the two payments in question here. So Lloyds received legitimate payment 
requests from him and carried these out. Im satisfied that neither payment was unusual or 
uncharacteristic for Mr Z, reviewing his account statements. And I can see that when Mr Z 
questioned these payments with Lloyds it put through a chargeback request and took this as 
far as it was able. Ultimately it is up to VISA what the outcome of this is  and it wasnt 
decided in Mr Zs favour.
When the chargeback process is started a consumer may get their money returned to them. 
But this will then be debited again at a later date if the chargeback is ultimately unsuccessful. 
And it was in Mr Zs case.
As our investigator set out to Mr Z, at the time he made these payments there wasnt 
anything to warn him or Lloyds about I, and so not to process the payments. From the 
evidence Mr Z has provided, the issues seem to sit with the brokers he used and what they 
told him. I agree with the investigator that we dont hold evidence that I wasnt genuine or 
carried out any misleading practices. But if the brokers worked for I and are in some way its 
responsibility, this is something Mr Z needs to pursue outside of this service. What we do 
know is Lloyds wasnt party to the conversations Mr Z was having with any brokers or aware 
of what hed been told. 
I havent seen anything in this case which suggests Lloyds shouldnt have processed these 
payments at the time Mr Z made them. And I cant see that Lloyds couldve retrieved these 
payments at a later date, it attempted this process, but it failed. Mr Z has asked us to ask 
Lloyds to refund him the money as a gesture of goodwill. But it isnt for our service to do that. 
Lloyds has made its stance on the matter clear to Mr Z. Based on the messages he received 
I can see why he considers he has been the victim of a scam. But I cant see that Lloyds was 
part of this or made any mistakes in processing these payments. So Im not now directing it 
to reimburse Mr Z for the payments he made.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman