DRN-3507061
The complaint
Mr A says the advice given and the arrangements made by The Tavistock Partnership 
Limited (TPL), to switch his personal pensions into a Pointon York Self-invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP), with a discretionary fund management (DFM) arrangement with Organic 
Investment Management (OIM) and to invest in its high yield fund was unsuitable. 
What happened
Mr A received advice from a firm called Base Financial Ltd (BFL). At the time of the events 
complained about it was an appointed representative (AR) of Tavistock Financial Limited 
(TFL). Given various dealings between different entities over time, the Tavistock Partnership 
Limited (TPL) has informed this Service its responsible, for the acts and omissions of its 
agents. To keep things simple, Ill largely refer to TPL in my decision.
Mr A says that TPL approached him in early 2016 to offer a free pension review. He says it 
was something hed already decided to do so he agreed it could look at his existing 
arrangements.
Mr A says he met with TPL on at least three occasions. During this time it gathered 
information about his objectives, circumstances and attitude to risk. It also made contact with 
his then pension providers to gather data on his existing provision.
Mr As aims and objectives were recorded in the following terms:
-Review of the existing pension plans.
-Arrange a strategy that helps in meeting your needs of a minimum of £24,000 per 
year during your retirement.
-Consolidation of your existing arrangements to provide certainty of affairs.
-Long term service to ensure your plan remains within the best position during 
retirement, and to assist you with the options at income withdrawal.
-Would like less exposure to equities, preferably avoid them but you would like similar 
growth.
TPL produced a suitability report for Mr A dated 29 June 2016. In summary it recommended 
he should:
- Retain his defined benefit scheme as this had important guarantees and protections 
and provided an income from age 65.
- Transfer both his group personal pensions.
- Open a e-SIPP with Pointon York to take the funds switched from his personal 
pensions.
- Invest the funds in the Organic High Yield Portfolio managed by OIM.
Mr A accepted TPLs recommendations and his personal pension funds totalling around 
£55,000 were switched to his SIPP from Capita and Scottish Widows in November and 
December 2016.
TPL says that in July 2017 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) visited OIM, after which 
the DFM business chose to stop accepting new investments. TPLs directors met with one of 
the directors of OIM and were given assurances about its situation.
TPL notes that with effect from 26th October 2017, TFL was sold to Sanlam Partnerships Ltd 
(SPL). Thus BFL became its AR. This is important to an argument TPL makes about the 
extent of any potential liability.
In November 2017, BFL contacted Mr A to undertake an annual review. At this time the 
value of his pension had increased from around £54,700 to £57,700. His circumstances 
hadnt changed and his attitude to risk remained the same. As a result, no recommendations 
were made, and this was confirmed in writing to Mr A on 8th November 2017.
On 14th November 2018 the funds managed by OIM were suspended and because the 
model portfolios invested in these funds, this impacted on Mr As pension. On 4th December 
2018 the FCA published its Supervisory Notice regarding OIM requiring it to cease regulated 
activities and to write to advisers and clients by the 12th December, informing them of such.
When Mr A received notification from TPL about the status of OIM. He had several concerns 
about what had happened. For example, he thought the DFM targeted return of 7.5% per 
annum had been questionable. He thought the SIPP arrangement had been expensive and 
unnecessary for his circumstances. And he thought a recommendation to invest in a fund 
with no track record and place all his money in this had been unsuitable.
Mr A said that as a result of TPLs advice hed made a significant loss on the capital hed 
invested. And that hed also lost out on investment growth.
TPL didnt receive Mr As initial complaint, but after this Service provided it with a copy it 
rejected his case. In summary it said.
Having reviewed all the documentation available to me I cannot conclude that the 
recommendation to transfer two of your pensions to the E-SIPP and to invest in the Organic 
High Yield Portfolio was unsuitable. The recommended investment met your risk profile and 
met with your objectives as detailed in the suitability report. 
I note that you transferred £54,716 to the E-Sipp in November and December 2016. A year 
later in November 2017 the file shows that the pension was valued at £57,695. 
Consequently, I do not consider that you suffered any loss during the period for which we 
accept responsibility.
The Investigator reviewed Mr As complaint and upheld it. He didnt think TPL had clearly 
demonstrated that the switch of Mr As personal pensions would leave him better off. He also 
thought it was responsible for any losses incurred on Mr As funds until he decided to 
transfer his residual pot to a different provider on 30 April 2020.
TPL disagreed with the Investigators findings and conclusions. It maintained that the initial 
advice had been suitable. It also said that from October 2017 SPL had taken on 
responsibility for BFL and its clients. It says SPL conducted a review of its 2016 advice in 
November 2017 and no changes were made. So, it asserts SPL is responsible for any 
losses from this point onwards.As both parties didnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr As complaint was passed to me 
to review the case afresh. I issued my provisional decision in May. Neither party provided 
new evidence or arguments and so I see no reason to depart from my initial findings and 
conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr As case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by TPL for Mr A. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3 - which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like TPL. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr As complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.When I consider a case where someone has switched their pension funds, I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants or 
needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the switch?
Each case is different, but Id expect the switch to be in Mr As best interests to make the 
advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made between his 
former pensions and the recommended new arrangement.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial Services Authority, 
published a checklist for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted four 
key issues it thought should be focussed on:
-Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than 
their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs. For 
example, in April 2014 it issued an industry alert which said:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
In addition, when considering the use of a DFM, the regulator has made clear that amongst 
other matters, firms need to take into account issues such as:
- Likely cost: do the overall costs justify the potential for improved performance?
- Size of funds under management: once a consumer has a moderately-sized fund, 
they may benefit from a model portfolio which is rebalanced automatically by a DFM 
ranging all the way up to bespoke arrangements for clients with larger funds.
- Investors knowledge and experience: FCA has said the adviser needed a 
reasonable belief that the investor could understand the nature of the risks of the 
underlying investments the DFM might make.
- Level of disclosure: whether the benefits vs cost of the arrangement were actually 
explained to the investor in terms they were likely to (or appeared to) understand.
Its also relevant to consider whether a particular DFM was appropriate. The approach each 
firm takes to managing funds and interacting with the adviser and investor is different. So 
different DFMs might be suitable for clients in different situations. Two factors are 
particularly relevant in this case.Firstly, the conduct of proper due diligence. If an adviser relied only on prepared literature, 
weaknesses in the DFMs operations may have been overlooked. Features that an adviser 
should consider in their due diligence include:
- Variation in cost structures between DFMs - some charge per transaction they make, 
in addition to an annual charge.
- What was the DFMs typical investment philosophy (in terms of assets they 
preferred), whether this was a model portfolio or not? Would those assets be 
appropriate?
- Whilst past performance cant be relied upon, it can provide an indication of the 
degree of success the DFM might have in future. If it didnt have a track record this 
would reasonably have increased the enquiries the adviser should have made.
The regulator was clear there was a positive obligation on the adviser to carry out this 
research, rather than supplying the DFM with a risk rating and hoping all will be right in the 
end. They were recommending the DFM as a solution to their clients needs and that meant 
looking under the bonnet.
Secondly, how the DFM will specifically invest the investors funds. Did the adviser obtain a 
current breakdown of assets in any proposed model portfolio, and the DFMs guidelines as 
to how it manages those assets? How did the adviser ensure that its attitude to risk scale 
mapped appropriately across to the DFMs? And if the DFMs mandate wasnt sufficiently 
limited, did it agree appropriate restrictions on what it was and wasnt allowed to invest in? If 
there was no specific agreement between the adviser and the DFM, how could it be sure 
that the DFM had accepted responsibility for risk-mapping the advisers score to its 
portfolios?
Did TPL meet the regulatory obligations it was bound by when advising Mr A?
There are several documents relating to TPLs transaction with Mr A that are important to my 
consideration, these include the fact-find, the pension switch report and the suitability report. 
I dont think TPL met the requirements placed on it in this case. Ill explain why.
TPL recorded that Mr A was 49 and living with a partner and had three dependent children. 
He was employed as an I.T Manager and was earning approximately £90,000 per year. He 
was said to have a net income of around £5,000 a month, with household outgoings slightly 
exceeding this. Mr A owned his home. This was worth about £625,000 and he had an 
outstanding mortgage of around £275,000. He was said to have cash reserves of £54,000 
and credit card liabilities of £25,000.
Mr A had two personal pensions. He had a Group Personal Pension Plan with Capita with a 
transfer value of around £23,860. And a Personal Pension Plan with Scottish Widows worth 
around £30,860 at transfer. Both were paid-up and invested.
Mr A was also a member of a defined benefit scheme with deferred benefits. The value of 
his annual pension at the time of the advice was about £6,249 per annum. And the value of 
these benefits would increase each year until retirement. Separately he was making 
contributions to a company scheme. Mr A was said to want to retire at 67 with a household 
income of £24,000.
At a basic level, I cant see evidence of modelling carried out by TPL which shows how the 
advice it gave him in 2016, came together to deliver his income requirements in retirement. What was the value of his defined benefit pension likely to be when he retired? How much 
had he accrued in his current occupational pension and what was the outlook over the 
coming years? And so, what did he need to achieve with his personal pensions, which 
formed an important part of his overall provision, in order to achieve his stated objective for 
his income in retirement?
I think this analysis wouldve been important to his being able to take an informed decision 
about what to do with his personal pensions. TPL was in a good position to have analysed, 
tested, challenged and advised Mr A about what was in his best interest for retirement 
planning. It knew pension pots built up over many years are to provide for a retirement 
income.
TPL recommended Mr A switch his two personal pensions into a Pointon York SIPP, with a 
DFM arrangement with OIM and to invest in its high-yield fund. There are a number of 
problems with its advice.
Charges
TPL charged Mr A £1,435 for its initial advice, that was 3% of his fund value.
In its suitability letter, TPL also noted that Mr A would initially be paying a little more in 
charges for the arrangement it was recommending. But it said access to investments that 
were in line with his requirements and the performance of these would prove beneficial 
overall.
Mr A was being charged a total of about £552 a year on his existing personal pensions. The 
new arrangement would mean hed pay about £920 each year (including ongoing advice 
fees, a service it said was appropriate in his situation). This is an uplift in costs of around 
67%. TPL calculated the new charges would equate to a reduction in yield of about 2.1%. 
TPL provided analysis showing the performance of Mr As existing personal pensions. Over 
the previous 5 years, before charges, his Capita pension had achieved growth of 29.3% and 
his Scottish Widows pension 31.7%.
The OIM high yield fund being recommended was targeting a yield of 7.5% a year. But Im 
mindful of two facts here. The first was that the fund was new  there was no historical 
performance to indicate whether this was realistic or not. And as Ive set out, it came with 
higher costs associated, which wouldve been a drag on returns to Mr A.
TPL hasnt done enough to satisfy me there was a clear potential for Mr A to be better off as 
a result of its recommendations, given the fees and charges he was incurring and the nature 
of the investment it was recommending.
Risk
Mr A completed a risk appetite assessment. The method used by TPL gave him a score of 
64/100, assigning him to risk group five out of seven. TPL noted the following characteristics 
of people in this group:
Making Financial Decisions - They think of "risk" as "uncertainty" or "opportunity" and are 
prepared to take a medium degree of risk with their financial decisions. Most have a 
reasonable amount of confidence in their ability to make good financial decisions and some 
have a great deal of confidence. They usually feel somewhat optimistic about their major 
decisions after they make them. When faced with a major financial decision they are usually 
more concerned about the possible gainsFinancial Disappointments - When things go wrong financially, while some adapt somewhat 
uneasily, most adapt somewhat easily.
Financial Past - They have taken a medium degree of risk with their past financial decisions  
but most have never borrowed money to make an investment. Most have never invested a 
large sum of money in a risky investment mainly for the "thrill" of seeing whether it went up 
or down in value.
Investment - It is somewhat to much more important that the value of their investments 
retains its purchasing power than that it does not fall, more likely somewhat more important. 
For some, a fall of 20% in the total value of their investments would make them feel 
uncomfortable but for most it would take a 33% fall. In recent years, for most there have 
been no changes in the risk of their personal investments but for those that have changed, 
the changes have been mostly towards higher risk. Over ten years they expect an 
investment portfolio to earn, on average, from about two and a half to three times the rate 
from bank deposits, more likely two and a half times.
I think the assessment TPL conducted of Mr As risk appetite was a reasonable starting 
point. Mr A wasnt a novice in investment matters and he understood that to gain better 
returns he had to take some risks. He wanted to take some risk.
However, Ive not seen any evidence to suggest Mr A was a sophisticated investor. Similarly, 
theres nothing to suggest he was particularly knowledgeable about pension matters. Of 
course, thats why he sought professional advice from TPL.
Overall, based on what Ive seen, I think there are some important weaknesses in TPLs 
approach on risk. For example, Mr A was said to want to move away from equities but 
wanted to achieve similar growth. Ive not seen how it got to the bottom of his concerns 
about his existing plans which appeared to be performing well. And its not clear he 
understood the vehicle he would be invested in.
TPL explained the following about the high yield portfolio that his funds would be placed in:
The Organic High Yield Portfolio is a new portfolio, under a year old and as such has no 
published performance figures. However, the Organic High Yield strategy comprises of 
noncorrelated and investments that are less volatile or are expected to return a higher yield 
than traditional investments as they do not track the market. The target yield of the portfolio 
is 7.5%. We have looked at the breakdown of the portfolio and the assets held within it will 
help to achieve your objectives.
I think TPL needed to provide a fuller explanation of what Mr As pension pot was being 
invested in. Ive not seen how the pros and cons of this asset type was explored with him. I 
note a fact sheet produced about the portfolio indicated that monies would be placed in 
below investment grade bonds. While such placements may be useful within a portfolio, 
theres a question about the wisdom of investing 100% of his personal pension in such 
funds.
Non-investment grade bonds are generally those with a rating below Baa3 or BBB-. These 
can be securities of a publicly-traded company or other entity that mayve has experienced a 
ratings downgrade or other negative event. It can also be debt issued as below investment  
grade. In addition, the bonds can cover loans made directly to companies that are not traded 
on public exchanges.
Its widely acknowledged that such a vehicle requires a great deal of fundamental research 
and due diligence from the investor (or those acting on their behalf), not simply because of 
extra risk but also due to the complicated nature of the loan construction. While TPL told Mr A it had looked at the assets in the portfolio it was recommending, it failed to inform him of 
such.
I note TPL did tell Mr A the portfolio it was recommending had no performance history  it 
was less than a year old. This added more risk into the mix. It shouldve been more fulsome 
about this. It shouldve set out why it considered using the product was a better option than 
more established funds.
Its a problem for TPL that it didnt have a handle on the investments Mr A would be making 
in his new SIPP. The regulator required that it took a close interest in where Mr As funds 
would be placed. If the underlying investment wasnt suitable, then the advice wasnt 
suitable.
Mr A wasnt investing all his pension assets. His defined benefit scheme would remain intact 
and he was contributing to another scheme. I think the sums he was investing were 
significant, but that he had some capacity for loss given his overall financial circumstances 
and how long he had to go until retirement.
The problem for TPL, as Ive mentioned previously, is that we dont know how important his 
personal pension funds were with respect to achieving his objectives. Did he really need to 
expose his funds to the risk he was taking on in order to meet his retirement income 
objective?
TPL had a duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best interests of Mr A. And to 
take reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave was suitable. Ive set out my concerns 
about the strategy TPL recommended and arranged for Mr A. 
Ongoing fund management
It doesnt appear Mr A had used a DFM previously. The concept was introduced by TPL. It 
said the arrangement should help yield performance and offered a wide choice of 
investments. It said:
We have a panel of DFMs that we have selected from the market place and have selected 
from that, Organic Investment Management (OIM). The reason for this selection is that they  
use investments that are not correlated to the market and will tend to not be as volatile as 
other equivalent risk equity portfolios and should provide you with a stable return. 
It needed to have conducted proper due diligence in respect of the OIM. The suitability 
report said the following in this regard:
At a time when many managers are increasingly using standardised solutions to meet 
clients needs, Organic Investment Management construct portfolios which include alternative 
asset classes which pass rigorous due diligence assessment offering. OIM are a new and 
exciting investment house and as such we have carried out full, extensive due diligence on 
them that they have passed and exceeded expectations. The investment managers have 
many years of successful experience within the investment management industry. We speak 
with the business owner frequently and as such, this gives you the client, a level of personal 
service that is not normally available on model portfolios such as the one recommended to 
you.
Its difficult to understand how TPL could recommend OIM based on its use of investments 
not correlated to the market, which were said to be less volatile than equities and providing a 
stable return. I say this because not only was OIM only registered with the FCA in July 2015, 
as it acknowledged, the portfolio recommended was less than a year old at the time. A key element of TPLs recommendation for Mr A to switch his personal pensions into the 
Pointon York SIPP appears to have been the expectation the DFM investment portfolio 
would perform better than his existing plan. If thats the case then it begs the question, on 
what that expectation was based upon?
OIM was a newly registered business. It had no track record of investment performance. 
Whilst past performance cant be relied upon, it can provide an indication of the degree of 
success the DFM might have in future. If it didnt have a track record this would reasonably 
have increased the enquiries TPL shouldve made.
Unfortunately, as we know, TCLs due diligence wasnt successful in detecting issues that 
would emerge at OIM within a short period after the advice it had given Mr A. These 
culminated in the suspension of his portfolio in November 2018.
Mr A had some investment experience, but he wasnt a sophisticated investor. He had a 
relatively modest personal pension fund of around £55,000 which hed built up over several 
years.
The portfolio TPL recommended was suspended. OIM failed as a business. As did the SIPP 
provider Pointon York. TPL might argue these matters of fact shouldnt be used in hindsight. 
And that he was afforded certain protections, such as access to the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS). But I think this would be to miss the point. Had it done more 
effective due diligence I think its more likely than not it wouldnt have advised Mr As use of 
OIM.
TPL hasnt done enough to demonstrate that the recommendations it made to Mr A to 
establish a SIPP, with a DFM facility, investing in vehicles he had no experience of, in a 
company with little track record and an instrument with no performance history, which also 
required its ongoing advice service, was suitable.
The arrangements TCL put in place were over-engineered, complicated, untested, relatively 
expensive and it wasnt clear they were reasonably likely to be able to produce a better 
return than his personal pensions.
Where does TPLs liability end and SPLs begin?
In responding to the Investigators view TPL said:
As previously explained Base Financial Ltd was an appointed representative of Tavistock 
Financial Ltd between 16th February 2015 and 26th October 2017 and so we are only 
responsible for their actions between these dates and consequently for any losses that may 
or may not have been incurred during that period.
From 26th October 2017 Tavistock Financial Ltd was sold to Sanlam Partnerships Ltd and 
so any losses suffered after that date due to the activities of Base Financial Ltd will be the 
responsibility of Sanlam Partnerships Ltd.
the 2016 advice was reviewed in November 2017, when Base was authorised by Sanlam. 
Therefore, it is our view that Sanlam are responsible for the advice given in 2017 and any 
losses that may have occurred after that date.
We remain of the view that as Mr [A] transferred of £54,716 to the E-SIPP in in November 
and December 2016, and a year later in November 2017 the pension was valued at £57,695, 
no loss occurred during the period for which we accept responsibility.
Ive thought carefully about what TPL has said.In broad terms, where a firm concludes that it may be jointly liable along with another firm for 
the investors loss then generally the firm that gave the first advice should review the whole 
period (including the period after the other firm became involved) and then seek to obtain 
redress from the other entity, as appropriate. But where a firm believes the causal link 
between the advice it gave and any ongoing loss has been broken, then the first firm may 
need only consider the period up to the second advice.
I note that Mr A wasnt the instigator of changing the firm ultimately responsible for servicing 
his pension plan. I dont know if he even knew things had changed  his dealings remained 
with BFL.
More tellingly, Ive reviewed information from the annual review TPL says BFL conducted in 
November 2017, when SPL had responsibility for Mr As account. It says the advice provided 
in 2016 had been reviewed again and so thats where its responsibility for what happened 
ends. But I dont think its as straight-forward as TPL suggests.
Ive seen a note of the telephone conversation BFL had with Mr A in November 2017. It 
records there had been no changes in his circumstances. His attitude to risk was said to be 
unchanged. And that Mr A thought the return on his investment to this point was ok, and that 
he had no reason to be unhappy. The meeting outcome was recorded in a letter BFL sent to 
him on 8 November.
I wouldnt characterise the phone conversation BFL had with Mr A in November 2017 in the 
terms TPL has. It clearly wasnt a review of the advice hed received a year earlier. But was 
that a failing of BFL, and therefore SPLs responsibility?
Ive reviewed TPLs suitability letter from July 2016 to see what was agreed about the 
ongoing servicing arrangement Mr A signed up for. Helpfully, it sets out the scope of what he 
could expect (bolding is my emphasis):
It is important that an investment of this nature is reviewed on a regular basis to 
ensure it remains suitable for your circumstances. We have discussed the option of 
providing you with an on-going advice service and this was something you expressed an 
interest in
Types of service propositionsBronze service - Lower cost option, telephone advisory 
service, for clients with less complicated needs. Typical portfolios of £20,000. Review of 
needs and analysis of risk tolerance and ongoing suitability. Ongoing market research, 
review report on suitability of product and provider every 2 years and access to IFA via 
telephone...
You have agreed to the Bronze servicing option which is ordinarily charged at 0.65%. 
This equates to an approximate annual payment of £311 based on the amount initially 
invested..
This agreement Mr A entered into indicates that he shouldve expected a review report on 
the suitability of the product and provider TPL had recommended every two years. It 
wouldve been in November 2018 that SPL shouldve uncovered the problems with his 
arrangements. So, I think this is the point at which in theory TPLs liability wouldve ended. 
Although my finding is a little different to that of the Investigator on this matter, I dont think it 
makes a material difference to the liability TPL faces. Thats because the issues with Mr As 
portfolio were established by November 2018. His fund was suspended, ultimately resulting 
in capital and investment losses, and ongoing costs arising from the pension arrangements 
TPL had recommended.Of course, it is a matter for TPL if it wishes to pursue SPL for acts and omissions which it 
believes it was responsible for where these give rise to an element of the costs of putting 
things right which it now faces.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr As case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
The Tavistock Partnership Limited responsible for.
If TPL had provided suitable advice, I dont think Mr A wouldve switched his personal 
pensions into a SIPP, nor taken on a DFM facility and invested all his funds in below 
investment grade bonds. I think its most likely his Capita pension wouldve remained 
invested in the SSGa MPF UK Equity Index pension fund. And his Scottish Widows pension 
in the Consensus Fund.
So, The Tavistock Partnership Limited needs to provide redress as follows.
1. Calculate a notional loss Mr A has suffered as a result of making the switch of his 
personal pensions
TPL should obtain the notional value of Mr As previous personal pensions with Capita and 
Scottish Widows, as at the date of calculation. So, as if they hadnt been transferred to the 
Pointon York SIPP. It will need to obtain the value of the plans as previously invested.
TPL should then find the current (actual) value of his SIPP, including investments and any 
cash held. Concerning the valuation here  the approach to be taken is set out in step 2. 
I understand Mr A moved most of the liquid funds from his SIPP in 2020. Im not aware he 
made further contributions to it. After confirming the detailed position, then the value TPL 
obtains or the calculations it makes should assume these adjustments would still have 
occurred and on the same dates.
The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional value of Mr As 
former personal pensions and the current value of his SIPP will be his basic financial loss 
that TPL needs to redress.
2. Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be redeemed
To close Mr As SIPP and avoid ongoing fees, the investments need to be crystallised. If, at 
the date of settlement, the residual investment is illiquid (meaning it cant be readily sold on 
the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. TPL should take ownership 
of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. 
This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If TPL is unable to purchase the residual investment the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose of calculation. It may wish to require that Mr A provides an undertaking 
to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. TPL will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Had TPL done what it ought to have then there wouldnt have been a SIPP. So, it wouldnt 
be fair if Mr A continued to have to pay SIPP fees because of illiquid holdings preventing it from being closed. Ideally, TPL would take over any illiquid holdings, thus allowing the SIPP 
to be closed. But third parties are involved, and I cant tell them what to do.
So, to give certainty to all parties, if there are illiquid holdings and TPL is unable to buy them 
from the SIPP, then its fair that it should pay Mr A an upfront lump sum equivalent to five 
years of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This gives a reasonable 
period to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
3. Pay an amount into Mr As pension pot so the value is increased by the loss calculated 
(resulting from 1 and 2) or pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted for tax.
If compensation is paid into Mr As pension, payment should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief, so that he is in the same position as if hed stayed in his original 
personal pension schemes.
If paying compensation into Mr As pension would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed and TPL takes on his investments, then it should pay 
his compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr A hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% wouldve been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this. If Mr A is a basic rate taxpayer, the notional allowance would reduce 
the amount payable accordingly.
TPL must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which this Service informs it 
that Mr A accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If TPL considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax, it should tell Mr A how much has been 
taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
4. Distress and inconvenience
I also think Mr A has been caused inconvenience as a result of TPLs actions. In recognition 
of this it should pay him £200 for its failings.
Further information
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be
found by typing compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our website: 
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mr As complaint and require The Tavistock 
Partnership Limited to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman