DRN-3235607
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) refused to remove 
Mrs H as a joint account holder from their current account 
What happened
In April 2021 Mr and Mrs H provided NatWest with forms to remove Mrs H from three joint 
accounts. NatWest removed Mrs H from two but didnt remove her from the third as the 
account had a remaining overdraft balance.
Mr and Mrs H complained, they felt it was unfair that Mrs H should remain on the account 
when she wasnt aware of the overdraft debt. They felt that Mr Hs individual voluntary 
arrangement (IVA) payments should suffice. And as Mrs H had not used the account for 
around three years and suffered from strokes and aphasia, she should be removed from the 
account.
NatWest disagreed, it explained that it had followed the terms and conditions of the account 
and upon review had decided the overdraft could not be maintained solely by Mr H. Mr and 
Mrs H referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Our Investigator felt that NatWest had acted in line with the terms of Mr and Mrs Hs 
account. They did not feel NatWest had done anything wrong or that there was any evidence 
it had treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly. They did not think it was unreasonable for NatWest to 
refuse to remove Mrs H from the account when its review had concluded Mr H could not 
afford to solely maintain the account.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed, they explained again how they felt NatWests decision was 
severely impacting Mrs Hs health. They asked for an Ombudsman to consider the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive checked NatWests terms and conditions to see what it would reasonably be expected to 
do when looking to recover an outstanding debt on a joint account. The terms state:
Youre all responsible to pay back any overdraft on your account. This means 
that we can ask all or just one of you to repay the full amount of any money you 
owe us and not just a share. This applies even if youre unaware that an 
overdraft has been used on your account.
In addition, the removal form signed by both Mr and Mrs H stated:
Please note that with the changes to account ownership, we will need to review 
the lending arrangements on the account. This could involve an internal credit 
assessment on the remaining party. All parties, including the party being 
removed from the account, will remain liable for any outstanding facilities until 
this assessment has been completed. 
Im satisfied that NatWests terms are clear that both Mr and Mrs H were jointly responsible 
for any overdraft on the account they held, and that they were jointly and severally liable for 
any outstanding debt. The form they signed to request Mrs Hs removal also made it clear 
that if an overdraft facility was in place NatWest would need to review it, and both parties 
would remain liable for the debt until the review completed.
NatWest completed this review and found that it would not be able to continue to provide an 
overdraft facility on the account once it became solely Mr Hs. It explained this was because 
Mr H would not be able to afford the account if it was transferred solely to his name, even 
with the IVA payments it might receive. This meant the balance would need to be cleared, 
and the overdraft removed, for the removal of Mrs H to take place under the current 
circumstances. Im satisfied NatWest acted fairly in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account when refusing to remove Mrs H.
I can understand and sympathise with Mrs H when she says that the debt isnt hers, 
and that she hasnt used the account for several years. But again, the terms she 
agreed to state that both Mr and Mrs H would be liable for the debt even if one party 
was unaware that an overdraft had been used on the account.
I can also appreciate how Mrs H feels the matter is impacting her health. I can see that 
NatWest provided Mrs H with the contact for its specialist support team, which is what 
Id expect it do to in the circumstances. If Mrs H needs further support in relation to the 
account, she can discuss this further with NatWest to see if it can assist her further.
But for me to direct NatWest to do more Id need to be satisfied that it acted unfairly. 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mrs H requested her removal from the account 
before it became overdrawn. And I think the terms were clear when the account was 
opened by Mr and Mrs H exactly how joint liability would apply. 
Im satisfied that NatWest acted fairly in the circumstances and I wont be asking it to 
do more.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman