DRN-3963076
The complaint
Mr U has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money he lost as the result of a 
scam.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr U bought a car. He paid £3,030 using mobile banking. Within a couple of 
days he encountered problems with the car and had to get it repaired. He was also 
concerned hed not received the warranty hed been promised. He was unable to get in 
touch with the dealer despite sending registered post and trying to call them.
As there were further problems with the car, Mr U felt hed been scammed. He asked 
Barclays to refund him as hed been an innocent victim and felt he was covered under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code.
Barclays believed  whilst the car had subsequently proven to cost Mr U more money than 
hed have expected  that Mr U should resolve this case as a civil dispute. They wouldnt 
refund him.
Mr U brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator also felt that Mr U 
wasnt the victim of a scam. She couldnt ask Barclays to do anything further.
Still unhappy with this outcome, Mr U has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr U made and authorised the payment under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017. At the time he did so, using Barclays mobile banking, he flagged that he 
was buying goods. This automatically presented a warning to Mr U about how scammers 
operate. Mr U continued to proceed with making the payment. 
Its also accepted that Barclays has an obligation to follow Mr Us instructions. So in the first 
instance Mr U is presumed liable for his loss. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Barclays 
should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
The issue here isnt whether Barclays should have issued a warning  as theres evidence 
they did. The issue here is whether Mr U has been the victim of a scam and therefore 
whether he should be refunded under the relevant Code.
Ive reviewed what happened, in particular the evidence Mr U has presented to us about the 
business he bought his car from and the condition of the car.
More frequently buying a car from someone pretending to be a dealer results in no car being 
received. That isnt what happened here. Mr U received a car. His evidence is clear that hed 
done his research about the dealers he was buying from and the car itself. I believe the 
dealer still operates and is genuine. 
Based on the age and mileage of this car, and other adverts, Mr U noticed that the car was 
priced a good deal lower. He uses this as an argument to support his view that the dealer 
was involved in a scam.
Im not sure I agree. I suspect the car was priced realistically because the dealer couldnt 
guarantee the long-term life of the vehicle. I dont believe there is sufficient evidence to show 
Mr U was the victim of a scam.
I also note Mr U didnt complain to Barclays until December  nearly six months after 
receiving the car. I appreciate he has personal reasons for why he had other concerns on his 
mind, but I think the evidence shows the car was working and being used by Mr U, despite 
costing him more than hed anticipated.
I dont doubt the car  and its long-term condition  may have been misrepresented to Mr U 
by the dealer. However I dont think there are grounds to expect Barclays to meet any 
consumer-related obligations that would exist if, for example, Mr U had used a debit or credit 
card to pay for his car.
Overall Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to ask Barclays to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Us complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman