DRN-3614854
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the service AJ Bell Management Limited provides in relation to 
his pension and ISA accounts. 
What happened
Mr T has a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and an ISA with AJ Bell. Mr T manages 
the investments within these accounts using AJ Bells online trading platform.
In November 2020 Mr T attempted to place some trades online, but he encountered 
problems with the platform. As a result Mr T said he made a loss of around £8,000 as he 
wasnt able to take advantage of news that impacted the value of some of the stocks he held 
in his SIPP and ISA. Mr T complained about this at the time and raised a complaint on behalf 
of Mrs T about the same issue. Mr T says his concerns werent responded to and he 
experienced further problems attempting to place trades in December 2020.
AJ Bell responded to Mr Ts complaint in December 2020, apologising for the disruption to 
the service hed experienced in November 2020. It said the news announcement led to its 
busiest day ever in terms of traffic to its platform, which had caused the technical issues. 
However, as this was beyond its control it wasnt responsible for any losses he had suffered. 
Mr T encountered other interruptions trying to trade online thereafter and raised new 
complaints. However, AJ Bell didnt offer any compensation so Mr T referred his complaint to 
our Service. Mr T said AJ Bells platform wasnt fit for purpose and that he should be 
compensated for his losses. He added that AJ Bell had told the press that it would 
compensate consumers for losses related to the issue in November 2020 so it should 
honour this.
Mr T also pointed out that hed been issued shares in a company Ill call E, following a 
demerger. He said these shares had been placed in his ISA, contrary to HMRC rules, and he 
had asked AJ Bell to have them moved to his dealing account, which he said hed opened 
for this purpose. However, this hadnt been actioned because AJ Bell told him E was going 
to attempt to list the company. Mr T said significant time had now passed and E hadnt listed, 
so he continued to be in breach of HMRC rules about holding non-qualifying investments in 
his ISA.
AJ Bell sent our Investigator its file and made an offer of compensation to Mr T of £500 for 
the problems hed experienced with the platform. Our Investigator didnt think AJ Bell needed 
to compensate Mr T for his alleged investment loss but thought that AJ Bell should pay an 
extra £200 to reflect the fact that Mr T continued to experience problems with the platform. 
The Investigator said she couldnt consider the issue Mr T had raised about the shares in E, 
as AJ Bell hadnt yet been able to consider this complaint issue and needed an opportunity 
to do so first.
Mr T didnt accept the Investigators view  he said the compensation awarded didnt reflect 
the magnitude of his investment loss. In respect of the shares in E, Mr T said they still hadnt 
been moved.
AJ Bell didnt respond to the Investigators view. So, the complaint was passed to me to 
make a final decision on the matter.
I contacted AJ Bell to advise that I thought it had had enough time to consider Mr Ts 
complaint about the shares in E, given the Investigator had made it aware of Mr Ts 
concerns in March 2022 and had asked AJ Bell for its position on this issue again in 
December 2022. So, I explained I would be considering this as part of Mr Ts overall 
complaint. And having done so, I thought AJ Bell should pay an extra £300 in addition to the 
£500 already offered to compensate Mr T for all of the concerns hed raised. I said that 
I didnt know if the shares in E were still held in Mr Ts ISA, but if so, I said AJ Bell should 
contact Mr T as soon as possible to move them to an appropriate account.
AJ Bell acknowledged my correspondence but didnt respond despite being given extra time 
to do so. The Investigator shared my view with Mr T, who maintained that the total 
compensation offered wasnt sufficient given the magnitude of his loss. Mr T commented that 
his wife had received the same amount of compensation despite her loss being significantly 
less.
As there is still disagreement between the parties, Im now providing my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint and requiring AJ Bell to pay Mr T £300, in 
addition to the £500 it has already offered, to compensate Mr T for the issues hes 
experienced. However, I know this will be disappointing for Mr T as he doesnt feel that the 
compensation is commensurate with the investment loss he says he suffered and the overall 
impact of the issues he encountered. 
I should first say that I recognise it would have been incredibly frustrating to Mr T that he 
couldnt place trades online through AJ Bells platform. In particular, he says he was unable 
to place several trades on 9 November 2020, following an announcement relating to a covid-
19 vaccine, which would have an impact on the value of other shares he held in his SIPP 
and ISA. By the time the technical issue was fixed, this was much later in the day and the 
market had moved unfavourably for him. He says this caused him a loss of around £8,000.
It's evident that in times of extreme market conditions, AJ Bells platform may be impacted or 
malfunction. AJ Bells terms and conditions account for this and state that it would not be 
liable for any loss incurred as a result. AJ Bell has explained it experienced its highest ever 
traffic to its trading platform following the vaccine announcement, which led to the technical 
issues and prevented Mr T from accessing his account. So, I think that Mr T was unable to 
access his account due to extreme market conditions, beyond AJ Bells control, rather than 
due to any separate failing by AJ Bell. For this reason I dont think it is responsible for his 
investment loss.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, Im mindful that Mr T had other ways of placing trades 
that day, including by telephone. Mr T has suggested that he tried to call and that the phone 
lines were permanently engaged. However, he hasnt provided evidence to support this. 
Mr T did send an email on behalf of himself and his wife about the issues in accessing the 
online platform, but this email made no mention of any attempted phone calls. I think that is 
something Mr T wouldve likely mentioned had he also been attempting to contact AJ Bell by 
phone.Although AJ Bell said it experienced an extremely high volume of calls on that day, it said 
the average call waiting time was less than seven minutes, so it believes Mr T couldve 
placed his trades this way. AJ Bell confirmed it had no record of any calls from numbers 
associated with Mr T. So, even though I dont think AJ Bell is responsible for Mr Ts loss 
because the system issues were caused by extreme market conditions, I also think that Mr T 
couldve attempted to place his trades by telephone, which was a reasonable alternative to 
using the online platform. I dont doubt that this wouldve been less convenient for Mr T, but 
I think he couldve mitigated or avoided his loss here.
Im mindful that Mr T encountered further problems accessing the platform and placing 
trades in December 2020, February 2021 and April 2021. And I again appreciate that this 
wouldve been frustrating to him. But as Ive said above, Mr T couldve placed his trades by 
phone instead. There will inevitably be times when technology fails or external factors will 
impact the functioning of the online platform, that is why AJ Bell operates a telephone 
dealing service. For this reason, I dont think AJ Bell is responsible for any loss Mr T 
associates with the other times he was unable to use the online platform.
That said, I do recognise that AJ Bell offers customers an online trading platform and there 
have clearly been several instances during a relatively short period of time in which Mr T has 
been unable to use it. Although Mr T had other ways of placing trades, this would have 
undoubtedly been less convenient. So, I do think the issues hes experienced have caused 
him distress and inconvenience and so it is fair that he receives compensation for this. 
With regard to Mr Ts shares in E, based on the information Mr T has provided, the shares 
were still held in his ISA in April 2022 and by that point they had been there for around 
18 months. As the shares in E are not qualifying investments, they should not be held in an 
ISA for more than a short period of time while other arrangements are made. I appreciate 
that when the shares were issued, E was considering listing the company. And had that 
happened then the shares couldve remained in Mr Ts ISA. However, AJ Bell ought to have 
made arrangements to transfer the shares to an appropriate account sooner once it became 
clear the company no longer intended to list.
It isnt clear whether the shares remain in Mr Ts ISA now, but if so, AJ Bell must contact 
Mr T without delay to arrange for the shares to be moved to an appropriate account. While 
I havent been made aware of any financial detriment to Mr T as a consequence, I can see 
that this issue has been a source of worry for him and it also wouldve been frustrating given 
hed raised his concerns about this over a year ago and no action was taken. So, I think 
compensation is also warranted here.
AJ Bell offered Mr T £500 to compensate him for the issues hed experienced up until 
April 2021. However, I think £800 overall (including the £500 it has already offered) is fair 
compensation for all of the issues Mr T experienced in using the online trading platform and 
the concerns he raised about the shares in E remaining in his ISA. I appreciate Mr T doesnt 
think that is sufficient. However, it should be noted that the amount of compensation is not 
based on the alleged loss Mr T says the issues caused him. Instead, it is intended to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience it caused. So, the sum awarded to Mrs T in respect of her 
complaint shouldnt be the basis for comparison. And overall I think that £800 in total is fair 
as it reflects the number of times that Mr T couldnt use the platform and the resulting 
inconvenience, as well as the additional worry he had regarding the unlisted shares. 
Putting things right
AJ Bell should pay Mr T total compensation of £800 (including the £500 it has already 
offered him) for the issues he experienced in using the online trading platform and the 
concerns he raised about the shares in E remaining in his ISA.AJ Bell should, without delay, arrange to move the shares in E from Mr Ts ISA to an 
appropriate account if the shares havent yet been moved.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint and I require AJ Bell 
Management Limited to put things right as above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman