DRN-3202117
The complaint
Miss B complains about UK Insurance Limited (UKI) and the lapse of the No Claims 
Discount (NCD) on her motor insurance policy as she hadnt had a policy in place for more 
than two years.
References to UKI include its agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Miss B contacted UKI in August 2021 to request a quote for motor insurance. She previously 
had a policy with UKI, taken out in December 2017, but cancelled the policy in April 2018. At 
the time, Miss B had five years NCD.
UKI couldnt offer cover for Miss Bs vehicle when she contacted them for a quote, due to its 
age. But she asked them for proof of the NCD to which shed previously been entitled. 
Initially UKI told Miss B she was entitled to NCD based on what shed previously built up. 
However, when Miss B contacted UKI again to clarify her entitlement, she was then told her 
NCD was no longer valid because it was more than three years old (the time between the 
cancellation of her policy in April 2018 and her contacting UKI for a quote in August 2021).
Miss B was unhappy that UKI hadnt told her that her NCD would expire if it wasnt used 
against a policy (with them) within three years. In their final response, UKI apologised for 
Miss B not having been told her NCD would expire after two years (or three years with 
them). While they didnt think theyd made an error in deciding her NCD had expired, they 
accepted they could have made the position clearer when Miss B contacted them initially. In 
recognition of the confusion they offered Miss B £100 compensation.
Miss B was unhappy at UKIs response and complained to this service. The main elements 
of her complaint were that she wasnt told that her NCD would expire if not used against a 
policy and that consequently shed lost out from having no NCD. She wanted UKI to 
reinstate her NCD at the previous level.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He noted that standard practice in motor 
insurance was that entitlement to NCD expires if a policyholder hadnt had a policy in place 
for a period of two years. The investigator noted that when Miss B originally took out a 
policy, she was told by UKI that proof of NCD needed to be less than two years old. He also 
noted that this is also made clear on UKIs website. But the investigator concluded that UKI 
should have made the position on NCD clear when Miss B contacted them in August 2021 
and that this had caused Miss B distress and inconvenience. The investigator concluded that 
the compensation offered by UKI was fair, so they didnt need to do anything more.
Miss B disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In asking for a review Miss B restated her unhappiness at UKI not telling her 
that her NCD entitlement would lapse if she didnt have a policy for more than two years. 
Miss B maintained that UKI should reinstate her NCD.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether UKI has acted fairly towards Miss B.
The main issue in Miss Bs complaint is that she wasnt told that her NCD would expire if she 
didnt use it against a policy within two years (with another insurer) or three years (with UKI). 
UKI say this is standard practice in the motor insurance industry (and their policy of 
accepting a gap of up to three years exceeds the two-year standard). Ive considered both 
views, but on balance I agree with UKI. The two-year period is an industry standard and 
entitlement to NCD is based on a policyholder having a policy in place, which enables a 
NCD to be built up over time.
 
From what Ive seen, it was Miss Bs decision to cancel her policy with UKI in 2018. The 
indications from UKIs case notes are that Miss B had received a cheaper quote from 
another insurer. That being the case, its not unreasonable for UKI to have assumed Miss B 
was taking out a new policy elsewhere, so I wouldnt have expected UKI to draw Miss Bs 
attention to the periods after which her NCD entitlement would have lapsed. 
Ive also listened to the calls between Miss B and UKI at the time she asked for a quote 
(both the initial call for a quote and the subsequent call clarifying UKIs position on Miss Bs 
NCD entitlement). The second call does make the position on NCD clear. UKI also make the 
point that when Miss B took out her policy in 2017, she was told proof of NCD needed to be 
within the previous two years. Miss B states she was told the same on an earlier occasion 
when she first took out a policy. Ive considered these points carefully and I think its 
reasonable to conclude they support the view that NCD entitlement expires after two years.
 
In this case, it appears when Miss B cancelled her policy in 2018, she took out cover on a 
motorbike (rather than another car). So, while that would have meant she built up NCD 
entitlement for a motorbike, it would be separate from NCD entitlement for a car (and so 
wouldnt count for the purposes of determining her NCD entitlement for a car). As the two 
types of vehicle are different (as are the risks involved in insuring them) I dont think its 
unreasonable that NCD entitlement should be separate between the two.
Listening to the first call where Miss B asks for a quote, its clear it doesnt make UKIs 
position on Miss Bs NCD entitlement clear, only that confirmation of her entitlement at the 
time that she cancelled her policy in 2018 would be provided. I agree it was unfortunate UKI 
didnt make the position on NCD clear and that this caused confusion. However, as UKI 
werent Miss Bs insurer after cancellation of her policy in 2018 (and the indications are they 
issued proof of her NCD entitlement at the time) they were only confirming Miss B had been 
insured with them to that point. I dont think thats unreasonable. 
Taking these points together, Ive concluded UKI havent acted unfairly in their decision that 
Miss Bs NCD had expired due to the gap from the cancellation of her policy. In apologising 
for any confusion and offering £100 in compensation I think theyve acted reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman