DRN-2922849
The complaint
Ms W complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) took an excessive amount of 
time to process her ISA transfer which caused her a financial loss.
Ms W says that as the transfer was delayed, she incurred costs from her other provider and 
would like these reimbursed. 
What happened
On 8 January 2020, Ms W requested that HSDL arrange for the transfer of two ISAs from 
her previous providers.  One transfer was completed without delay, but the other transfer 
was delayed as HSDL had incorrectly rejected it.
There was a delay of seven weeks before HSDL chased the provider for a valuation. HSDL 
also said that there was a period in April 2020 where they did not meet their internal 
timescales due to the Pandemic.
HSDL received most funds from the provider on 26 May 2020 and Ms W confirmed that all 
funds were in her ISA on 1 June 2020.
Ms W complained to HSDL on 22 April 2020 about the time it was taking for HSDL to 
complete the transfer of funds into her ISA.
HSDL investigated the complaint and admitted that the service Ms W had received had not 
met expectation and upheld the complaint.
HSDL offered Ms W £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused in full 
and final settlement of the complaint.
Ms W accepted the £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused but she said she 
suffered a financial loss as she continued to pay charges at her previous provider.  Unhappy 
with HSDLs decision, Ms W referred her complaint to the service.
One of our investigators investigated the complaint and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator thought that Ms W had suffered a financial loss and asked HSDL to reimburse 
Ms W for the charges that she incurred when her transfer was delayed.
Unhappy with the investigators view, HSDL have asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and will be upholding the complaint.
The details of the complaint are known to both parties and HSDL accept that the transfer 
was delayed. Its not my intention to go back over the details why it was delayed but I will 
look at what HSDL have done to resolve the complaint.
HSDL have offered Ms W £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused and I think 
that this is fair and reasonable and in line with what the service would recommend. Im not 
going to ask HSDL to do anything else here.
In HSDLs submission to the service, they have said that the expected timescale for a Funds 
transfer in the industry is six to eight weeks but can take longer. 
In documentation about ISA transfers, HSDL say:
How long does it take? 
Once we have received the valuation from your current broker, it usually takes around 2-3 
weeks to transfer cash or UK shares and 6-8 weeks for funds or international shares.
Ms W requested the ISA transfer on 8 January 2020, and it was completed by 1 June 2020. 
This is clearly outside of the 6-8 weeks suggested by HSDL.
HMRC guidelines state that ISA transfers should take no longer than 30 calendar days. In 
their response to the investigators view, they said that he was mistaken in referring to this 
30-day timeline as its made in reference to equities.
The guidance is shown below:
ISA transfers should take no longer than:
15 working days for transfers between cash ISAs
30 calendar days for other types of transfer
There is no mention of equities, but I do acknowledge that transfers involving funds can take 
longer to process due to the way that they are held.
HSDL accept that Ms Ws transfer took longer than it should have taken to process. In 
looking at a complaint, the service will expect a business to put the consumer back in the 
position they should have been had no error occurred.
 
In her submission to the service, Ms W has shown that she continued to pay charges to her 
provider. Ms W says that if the transfer had been completed without delay, she would not 
have incurred these charges. I agree  these charges were only payable as the ISA transfer 
had not been completed by HSDL.
The investigator has suggested that HSDL offer Ms W additional compensation to take into 
account her financial loss. The investigator has suggested that Ms W should not have 
needed to pay charges from 13 March 2020 until 26 May 2020.
Ms W has suffered a financial loss and HSDL should compensate her the loss  I dont think 
that the offer of compensation deals with Ms Ws financial loss, so I agree with the outcome 
suggested by the investigator.
  Putting things right
 Halifax Share Dealing Limited should compensate Ms W based on the following:
Reimburse the 0.23% platform charge that she paid as a result of the late transfer 
Reimburse the 0.5% intermediary charge that she pad as a result of the late transfer
The date range for the charges should be from 13 March 2020 until 26 May 2020
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman