DRN-3515676
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy because Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt reimburse all the money 
she lost in a scam.
What happened
The payments in this case were made from Mrs Gs account but she has explained that her 
husband, who Ill refer to as Mr V, was the one who spoke to the scammer and then advised 
her to make the payments. 
I understand that in January 2021 Mr V left his details online and was then contacted by a 
company offering him bonds. Mrs G tried to make a payment of £5,000 for the bonds but 
Barclays blocked the payment and its fraud department called Mrs G about it. Barclays 
advised that it thought Mrs G was being scammed and gave advice about how to avoid 
falling victim to an investment scam. Following the call Mrs G didnt go ahead with the 
payment. 
Shortly afterwards Mr V found another investment opportunity and Mrs G made the following 
payments from her account:
Payment Date Amount
1 13/01/21 £2,000
2 13/01/21 £2,000
3 14/01/21 £1,000
Total
I understand that Mr V also made payments from his own account. The bond was for five 
years and Mrs G was told shed receive around £50,000. Neither Mr V nor Mrs G completed 
any research before making the payments. 
For the first few months Mrs G received a small return but when the payments stopped, and 
Mr V was unable to contact the company that offered the investment, Mrs G realised she 
was the victim of a scam and contacted Barclays. 
Barclays contacted the bank that received Mrs Gs funds multiple times but didnt receive a 
response. It considered Mrs Gs claim and initially said it wouldnt provide a refund. Later 
Barclays agreed to refund Mrs G 50% of her loss, saying that it could have done more to 
prevent her loss, but Mrs G hadnt completed any checks before making the payments so 
should share responsibility for her loss. Barclays also paid Mrs G £100 to compensate her 
for not agreeing to a refund when it first considered her claim.
Our investigation so far
Mrs G wasnt happy with Barclays response so brought a complaint to our service. The 
investigator who considered it didnt recommend that Barclays refund the remainder of Mrs 
Gs loss. He said this because:
- Around two weeks before the scam Barclays advised Mrs G not to make a payment 
and gave her advice about how to protect herself from scams. If Mrs G had followed 
that advice the scam wouldnt have happened. 
- Mrs G (and Mr V) hadnt completed any research before making the bond payments. 
- When Mrs G made the payment, Barclays provided a warning that should have led 
Mrs G to be concerned. 
The investigator didnt think Barclays should have flagged the payments as unusual and also 
said the compensation paid by Barclays was reasonable.
Mrs G didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for her case to be reviewed, so 
its been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Barclays should have reimbursed Mrs G under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether 
it ought to have done more to protect her from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to 
take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
*There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case. 
Barclays has accepted that it could have done more to protect Mrs G from loss and has 
already refunded her 50% of her loss under the CRM Code. 
Did Mrs G have a reasonable basis for believing she was making a legitimate investment?
Theres no dispute here that Mrs G was tricked into making the payment. But this isnt 
enough for Mrs G to receive a full refund of the money she lost under the CRM Code. The 
Code places a level of care on Mrs G too. 
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of Mrs 
G and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Barclays has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Mrs G made are enough to support its position that she failed 
to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payments she made. I dont 
think she had a reasonable basis for believing the payment was for a genuine investment 
opportunity or that the person she transacted with was legitimate. Ill explain why. 
- When Barclays blocked a payment a few weeks before (on 5 January 2021) Mrs G 
was given advice about investment scams. At the time that payment was made Mr V, 
who was speaking for Mrs G after she passed security, was advised not to make the 
payment as it was likely a scam. In the call the Barclays staff member gave firm advice that Mr V/Mrs G needed to complete their own checks to satisfy themselves 
they were making a genuine investment but there were clear red flags that meant the 
Barclays advisor didnt recommend making the payment. The main areas the 
Barclays advisor identified were:
oMrs G wanted to pay a different company to the one she was investing in and 
if the investment was legitimate this wouldnt happen.
oThere was no evidence the company Mrs G was investing in was registered 
with the FCA or any other body.
oInterest rates in the UK at the time were around 1% so an investment offering 
massive rates is likely to be a scam.
Mrs G, through her representative Mr V, was advised to do her own research and in 
particular to contact the FCA. 
In the circumstances, I consider Mrs G ought reasonably to have followed this advice 
when she sought to make a further payment to invest in a bond very shortly 
afterwards. Again, she was sending funds to a different company to the one she was 
investing in (having been told the payee was the custodian of her funds). This 
custodian company claimed to be FCA regulated but none of the many other 
companies involved in the scam were FCA registered. Mrs G didnt check FCA 
registration in respect of any of the companies in any event.
- When Mrs G made the payment requests she was presented with a warning that 
said,
Stay safe from scams Check the FCA register and warning list to confirm that the 
investment company is certified and regulated before proceeding. Scammers often 
clone genuine companies, creating documents and websites that look real  check 
the spelling.
Particularly given the advice Barclays gave Mrs G in the call on 5 January 2021 I 
consider this warning should have resonated with her and led her to take additional 
steps before making the payment. 
- The rate of return offered was too good to be true and should reasonably have 
caused concern.  In the call shortly before the scam payments were made Mrs G was 
told that the rate of interest in the UK was around 1%. A few weeks later Mrs G was 
expecting to receive around £50,000 over five years after paying £5,000. I consider 
this rate of return was too good to be true and should have raised concerns and led 
Mrs G to take additional steps before making the payments. 
Should Barclays have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Mrs G? 
Im also mindful that when Mrs G made these payments, Barclays should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud. If Barclays identified a scam 
risk Id expect it to have a conversation with Mrs G about the reason for the payment and to 
provide scam advice (as Barclays did when it spoke to Mrs G a few weeks before she made 
the scam payments). 
I dont think Barclays should have been concerned about the first payments Mrs G made as 
they were relatively low in value and broadly in line with normal spending on the account. 
It seems that Barclays did flag one of the payments Mrs G made to the scammer and I 
believe it was the last payment. I cant see that a conversation took place about the 
payment. But I dont think it matters to the outcome of this complaint. I say this because if I 
thought Barclays should have done more when the payments were made, Id then need to consider whether I should make a deduction to reflect Mrs Gs contribution to her loss. For 
the same reasons Ive concluded that Mrs G didnt have a reasonable basis to believe the 
investment was genuine, Im persuaded that Id reduce any award I made by 50%. As 
Barclays has already refunded 50% of Mrs Gs loss, I dont consider it needs to do anything 
more. 
Ive also considered Barclays actions once it was made aware of the scam. Barclays 
contacted the bank that received Mrs Gs funds the day the scam was reported so Im 
satisfied it acted promptly to try to recover Mrs Gs funds. Im also satisfied that Barclays 
offer of compensation for not offering a partial refund when it first considered Mrs Gs claim 
was reasonable and so am not asking it to pay anything more. 
Overall
I consider Mrs G didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was making a legitimate 
investment. Im sorry to have to disappoint Mrs G, but I think Barclays assessment of her 
fraud claim under the CRM Code is fair, so Im not asking Barclays to make any further 
payments to Mrs G. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman