DRN-4429150
The complaint
A company which I will refer to as K, complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont reimburse the 
money the company lost following an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. 
Briefly, in early 2023, a scammer emailed K impersonating to be a supplier of K. They 
advised K that their bank account has changed, and all future payments should be made to 
a new bank account. K duly amended the account details in their system. Two weeks later, 
the scammer chased K for an outstanding payment and K paid the amount to this new 
account.  
The scam came to light about ten days later when the genuine supplier contacted K for the 
payment. K immediately reported the scam to their bank Lloyds who in turn contacted the 
recipients bank. Unfortunately, no funds reminded in the recipients account. 
K says that Lloyds could have done more to help them and that it should reimburse the loss. 
Lloyds says that it hadnt done anything wrong and so it would be unable to reimburse K the 
money lost. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and concluded that it couldnt be upheld. 
They said that Lloyds correctly followed Ks payment instructions. The payment wasnt 
particularly unusual or suspicious in appearance to the bank at the time considering the 
companys normal account and payments activity. The payment also didnt consume all of 
the funds in the account  which might have been an indicator it was at risk of fraud. The 
payment was to a new payee, but this alone wouldnt have given Lloyds much cause for 
concern. 
So, the investigator said that they are unable to conclude that the bank missed an 
opportunity to identify that the payment was being made in relation to a scam. The 
investigator also noted the Lloyds took action swiftly on being advised of the scam.
The investigator concluded that the bank hasnt done anything wrong - so it doesnt need to 
take any further action such as reimbursing the loss to K.
K did not agree and asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator, essentially for the same reasons. 
As the Investigator has said, in broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. 
However, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for banks to take additional 
steps  as for example have systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud.
I have reviewed Ks account statements for several months prior to the payment to the 
scammer, to understand the general account activity. Over the period, I see that this was an 
active account. There have been several similar or higher payments out of the account. As 
such I cant say that the payment ought to have stood out as unusual.  The payment was to 
a new payee, but this alone wouldnt have given Lloyds much cause for concern. Also, the 
payment was made about two weeks after the new account details was set up. 
Ultimately, it is a matter for Lloyds as to how it chooses to configure its fraud detection 
systems and strike a balance between allowing its customers to transact business and 
questioning transactions to confirm they are legitimate.  But where it is alleged that it didnt 
do enough to prevent a loss which resulted from an authorised push payment fraud, I will 
look into the circumstances of the case and based on what I have seen, decide whether in 
that case the bank could have fairly and reasonably done more. 
After taking all of the above into account, I cant say that the disputed payment stood out 
sufficiently from the prior account activity to reasonably have prompted Lloyds to take further 
action. Im not persuaded that there was enough here for me to find Lloyds was at fault in 
carrying out Ks payment instruction in line with its primary obligation to do so.
Further, from what I can see, there was no delay on part of Lloyds in contacting the 
recipients bank on being advised of the scam. Unfortunately, no funds remained in the 
account. Given that the contact was made about ten days after the scam, this isnt surprising 
as the scammers tend to take the money swiftly out of the account as soon as it was paid in.
On some occasions, its possible to consider whether a customer is covered under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Mode Code which came into effect from 28 May 2019. However, 
K arent not covered by the Code. Where the customer is a business (as in this case), the 
Code only applies if they were a micro-enterprise at the time the transaction took place. 
For this purpose, a micro-enterprise is essentially an enterprise which employs fewer than 
10 persons. And, if they employ fewer than 10 persons, then either their annual turnover or 
total gross assets should not exceed €2 million. In this case K isnt a micro-enterprise as it 
employed more than 10 persons at the relevant time. So unfortunately, they arent covered 
by the CRM Code. 
I am very sorry to see that the loss has, understandably, caused considerable distress and 
inconvenience. This was a sophisticated fraud, and I can see why K found the scammers 
emails believable. For example, when K advised the scammer that a previous payment of 
£11,000 had already been made, they said that that was fine and that they can still trace that 
payment despite switching to the new account. This would have reassured K that they were 
dealing with the genuine supplier.
However, what I am considering here is whether the loss to K was caused by any error or 
omission by the bank. I appreciate the directors strength of feeling on this matter in that K 
had been a long-standing customer of Lloyds and so Lloyds could have helped by 
reimbursing the loss, as they fell victim to the scam. But I can only make an award against a 
bank if that bank has done something wrong, which has led to a loss. In this case, for the reasons given I dont think that there was any error or omission on part of Lloyds which led 
to Ks loss. As such I cant fairly or reasonably ask it to refund their loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman