DRN-3919026
The complaint
Ms W complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase (Chase) wouldnt refund 
the money she lost in a scam
What happened
What Ms W says:
On 13 July 2022, Ms W was contacted by someone claiming to be from the provider of her
credit card (which I will call A). He said there had been some fraudulent transactions on the
card and he would put her in touch with As fraud unit. They put her though to a universal
fraud team  said to be acting for all banks. They convinced her to move her funds out of
her Chase accounts  they said it was likely all her accounts would be hacked. They told her
she needed to move her money into an account in a different name  a name the supposed
fraudsters couldnt recognise  then her money would be safe. The scammers then talked
her through the process, telling her to ignore any calls or warnings from Chase  as this
would interfere with their investigation.
Ms W was told to move her money from her Chase savings account to her current account -
and then transfer it into an account nominated by the scammers. The money was sent to a
limited company account, with a named manager as a beneficiary. The transfer from her
savings and the three payments were: (continued below):
Date / Time Type of payment Amount Balance
13 July 2022: 16.38 Transfer from 
Chase savings to 
Chase current 
account£9,350 £9,351 credit
1. 13 July 2022: 16.51 Faster payment £3,500 £5,851 credit
2. 13 July 2022: 16.53 Faster payment £3,000 £2,851 credit
3. 13 July 2022: 16.55 Faster payment £2,500 £351 credit
A fourth payment for £350 was stopped by Chase.
She was told she couldnt access her account until the following day, as it would be blocked
for 24 hours. The scammers told Ms W to delete the Chase app (and other bank apps) from
her phone. She contacted Chase in the evening of 14 July 2022, only to find out she had
been scammed. After that, she was disappointed to learn that Chase told her they wouldnt
refund the money as she had been called by someone purporting to be A, and not someone
posing as Chase.
Ms W said she wasnt normally a gullible person and felt stupid and embarrassed at what
had happened. She suffered from anxiety, and this had made it worse. She had now lost all
her savings and was in financial difficulty. She was now on universal credit and using food
banks. She had to sell some personal belongings to make ends meet.
What Chase say:
Chase said theyd fulfilled their responsibilities and wouldnt refund the money. In their
submission to our service, Chase said this was because Ms W had been contacted by
someone purporting to be A, and not Chase. They said that in a call with Ms W on 14 July
2022, a fraud specialist talked to Ms W and asked why Ms W had agreed to transfer the
funds into an account in another name. Chase said they contacted the recipient bank on 15
July 2022, but no funds remained to be returned to Ms W.
Our investigation so far:
Ms W brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Chase should refund the second
and third payments. Because by the time of the second payment, Chase shouldve
intervened  as it is common for scammers to make high-frequency payments to a new
payee. The payments were also out of character, based on the usual activity on Ms Ws
account. 
But he said Ms W should bear some of the loss as the scammer didnt verify herwith any security checks; and she didnt check her account to see if the fraudulent payments
had been made as the scammer had said. He said the fact that the scammer said there had
been fraud on her other accounts shouldve led her to be suspicious about what was
happening. So  our investigator said Ms W should get a refund of 70% of the last two
payments.
Neither Ms W nor Chase agreed. Chase argued:
- The payments werent unusual for Ms W. They said there were other, frequent
payments of a similar amount from her accounts.
- When a new payee was created, Chase sent messages to Ms W to warn her about
moving money to a safe account.
- Ms W didnt try to verify if the call from the scammer was genuine.
- Theyd tried to get the money back from the recipient bank  they emailed it on 15
July 2022, but no funds remained.
Both Chase and Ms W asked that the complaint be looked at by an ombudsman, so it has
come to me to do that.
I issued a provisional decision which said:
Im sorry to hear that Ms W has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that Ms W
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Ms W didnt intend for
the money to go to the scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first
instance.
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time, I consider Chase should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt
apply in this case. That is because Chase are not a signatory to it.
I need to decide whether Chase acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms M when
she made the payment, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered
the position carefully.My first consideration is whether Chase shouldve been concerned about the payments 
and whether they were out of character for the normal activity in Ms Ws accounts. The
important matter here is whether this was a payment that Chase might reasonably have
considered unusual, and therefore whether they shouldve held or stopped the payment and
contacted Ms W about it.
I looked at Ms Ws accounts. She had a savings and a current account. They were opened
on 27 April 2022. Ms Ws current account had no activity until the credit of £9,350 and scam
payments in July 2022. It had a balance of £1 as of 1 July 2022.
I can also see (as Chase have said) that Ms W did make some payments from her savings
account to an account (possibly in her own name) with another bank: two payments for
£4,500 and £1,300 were made on 20 June 2022, and two more payments of £600 and £300
were made to the same account on 6 July 2022 and 7 July 2022.
In this case, Ms W never used her current account and only ever used her savings account
to transfer funds to another account with a different bank. So moving her entire savings
balance to her current account was unusual, although I accept that savings accounts can be
used to save for one off large purchases.
I think Chase acted reasonably in processing the first payment of £3,500. Although it was
unusual for Ms W to set up a new payee, the amount transferred was relatively small and left
the account with a healthy balance. And as Chase has pointed out, they provided a new
payee warning that referred to safe account scams at the time of this first payment. Theres
a balance to be struck: Chase has obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in
their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every transaction as this would
cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. Overall, Im satisfied Chase acted
reasonably in processing this payment.
I turn now to the other payments. By the time Ms W made the second payment request for
£3,000 - she sought to transfer £6,500 within around two minutes to a newly created third
party payee. This was highly unusual given Ms Ws previous account and payment history
and the fact that Ms W transferred her entire savings balance before making the payment
adds to this. And an unusual pattern of spending was starting to emerge.
The scam payments were made in rapid succession: the transfer of £9,350 to the current
account from the savings account took place at 16.38; the first payment to the scammer was
at 16.51; the second payment was at 16.53; the third payment was at 16.55. And  the
account was drained to almost zero balance within minutes  and it wouldve been a balance
of £1 if Chase hadnt stopped the last payment of £350.
So I consider Chase ought reasonably to have intervened and asked Ms W about the reason
for the payment and provided appropriate warnings that brought safe account scams to life.
My understanding is that no warning was provided when the second payment request was
made as the recipient was no longer a new payee. But even if Im wrong, I dont consider an
on screen warning went far enough. Chase will be aware that scammers often tell their
victims to ignore such warnings and create a sense of panic and urgency that mean they
rush the payment.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest Ms W was provided with a cover story, so I think if
Chase had asked her why she made the payments shed have been honest. And if Chase
had explained all the hallmarks of a safe account scam, Im persuaded Ms W would have
made additional checks and not gone ahead with the payment. It follows that Ms W wouldnt
have made the subsequent payments either.Chase has referred to the contact they made when Ms W tried to make a further payment of
£350 which would have totally cleared her account. Ms W didnt reply and so Chase didnt
allow the payment to be made. Whilst Im pleased Chase took this step, I think their
intervention came too late.
Ive gone on to consider whether Ms Ws actions mean she should share responsibility for
her loss with Chase. In considering this point Ive taken into account the sense of fear and
urgency created by scammers in scams of this nature. Ms W was led to believe that if she
didnt move her funds as directed, shed lose them. In the circumstances, I can understand
why Ms W moved past the warning Chase provided when she set up the new payee and
why, in the moment, she didnt complete checks that with the benefit of hindsight she should
have.
This pattern of transactions fits the usual pattern of safe account scam payments being
made to a new payee, in rapid succession and which drain the account of funds.
But on balance, I think Chase should reasonably have stepped in to ask probing questions
about the payments  and if they had, then Ms W couldve been warned about the scam and
stopped them. However, because there had been a small number of large payments from
Ms Ws savings account, I can accept that on balance, Chase acted reasonably in allowing
the first payment of £3,500 to be made. But  after that, I think its reasonable to say that
Chase shouldve have stepped in.
Recovery
Ms W contacted Chase in the evening of 14 July 2022 at 21.05  she was told by the
scammers that her account would be blocked until then. And she had deleted the app on her
phone  as told to by the scammers. Chases fraud team worked 8am to 8pm. And after that,
Chase did what it was expected to  on 15 July 2022, just after 8am, Chase contacted the
recipient bank. We also asked that bank for evidence about what happened. And I can see
the funds were removed within minutes of being received at the recipient bank. So 
unfortunately, the money couldnt be recovered.
Distress and Inconvenience.
I listened to the call made by Ms W to Chase on 14 July 2022  when she reported the
scam. Chase had tried to call her three times during that day. Chases call handler was very
empathetic and helpful  as Ms W was upset. But equally, he did say that Chase would
refund the money to Ms W.
He said, we are going to put this rightyou have my guarantee on that we are going to
get this sorted for youtrust me on that.aim to get funds back asap (and) put things
back the way they should be. So  Ms Ws expectations were raised, and so it was a shock
when Chase told her (on 20 July 2022) that they wouldnt refund anything. Ms W has
explained that she suffered from anxiety, and she has had to go onto universal credit and
use food banks because of the scam. So here  in the circumstances of what happened, I
think its reasonable that Chase should pay compensation of £200.
In summary, I think Chase should reasonably have stopped the second and third payments
of £3,000 and £2,500. I dont think there should be any deduction. Chase should pay interest
at their savings rate on the money from the date of the scam to the date of settlement. This
is because the funds used in the scam were transferred from this account and would likely
have remained in the account were it not for the scam. And Chase should pay compensation
of £200 for distress and inconvenience.Responses to the provisional decision:
Chase agreed. Ms W made no comments. I now need to consider a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Chase agreed, and Ms W had no comments to make, my final decision is in line with the 
provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase should:
Refund the payments of £3,000 and £2,500.
Pay interest at Chases savings rate from 13 July 2022 to the date of settlement.
Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman