DRN-1562485
The complaint
Miss E complains that U K Insurance Limited cancelled and then didnt reinstate her motor 
insurance policy. Shes also unhappy with its level of service. 
What happened
UKI cancelled Miss Es policy due to an internal error. It then refunded her premium. UKI 
acknowledged the error, reinstated the policy and requested repayment of the refunded 
premium. It also paid Miss E £100 compensation for her trouble and upset. 
Miss E said she was unable to make the payment as she was leaving for holiday. UKI later 
sent her a text asking to speak with her urgently. And Miss E replied by email giving the date 
of her return. UKI then emailed back saying there were no problems with her policy. Miss E 
returned from holiday and contacted UKI on the day the policy cancelled to make the 
repayment. But it said it was now too late. UKI charged her for her time on cover. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was unfair 
for UKI to tell Miss E that there were no problems with her policy and to then cancel it. He 
thought Miss E had called on the date of cancellation and so she should have been able to 
make the repayment. Miss E didnt want another policy with UKI. So he thought UKI should 
pay Miss E £200 further compensation for the trouble and upset this had caused her. 
Miss E replied that shed paid for her time on cover, but she said her new policy elsewhere 
was £400 more expensive. And she thought UKI should also reimburse her this amount. 
UKI replied that it had sent Miss E a cancellation letter that superseded the incorrect email. It 
said she would have received this when she returned from holiday and then had five days to 
make her repayment and avoid the cancellation. It said its letter said the cancellation would 
occur at 00.01 on the date and Miss E called after this time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss E feels frustrated with UKIs level of service. Her policy was 
initially cancelled due to its internal error. This was reinstated and Miss E was aware that 
she needed to repay the refunded premium. But she was unable to do this before leaving for 
holiday. 
UKI texted Miss E to contact it urgently about her policy when it was unable to reach her to 
make the repayment. Miss E responded to this, explained that she was on holiday and said if 
UKI would email her about it then she would try and sort it out. UKI emailed back to say that 
it had checked her policy and it was all up to date. 
So I think Miss E had let UKI know she was on holiday. I think she had offered to try and sort 
out any problem over email. And I think she had been, wrongly, reassured that all was well 
with her policy.  
But I also think Miss E was aware that she needed to make her repayment. I cant hold UKI 
responsible for her not doing this before she left for holiday. She intended to be away for 
over a month and I think she should have realised that this was a long time to keep UKI 
waiting.
The notice of cancellation letter was then sent by post to Miss Es address. But Miss E said 
she didnt return to this address immediately she returned from holiday. And when she called 
UKI to make the repayment it was too late. 
This service believes that insurers should take reasonable steps to ensure that policy 
holders are told that their policy has been cancelled as this will have serious consequences 
for them and expose them to possible court action.
UKI said letters were its standard contact method, and I think thats its commercial decision. 
UKI has provided templates of the letters it sent to Miss E. 
Miss E said she received the first one, which said the policy was reinstated and to contact it 
to make her payment. This doesnt include any time limit. 
Miss E said she didnt receive the second letter which asked her to reinstate her direct debits 
or her policy would proceed to cancellation. Miss E was on holiday when this letter was sent. 
But Miss E had paid her premium annually, so I cant understand why this letter would have 
been sent. And then the cancellation notice letter was sent whilst Miss E was on holiday.  
UKI had contacted Miss E by text, and shed responded. She had emailed it and offered to 
sort out any problem, but she was told there wasnt one. Miss E had told UKI she was on 
holiday, but it still wrote to her. So Miss E didnt know that her policy would be cancelled. 
So I think this problem stemmed from UKIs initial cancellation and refund of Miss Es 
premium. UKI gave Miss E false reassurance that all was well with her policy. I think UKI 
missed an opportunity in its emailed response to Miss E to tell her about the risk of 
cancellation.
Miss E was aware that she needed to make the repayment. But I think she wasnt made to 
understand the urgency of this. I think that if UKI had contacted Miss E about the 
cancellation by other means, such as email, then she would have sorted out the repayment 
earlier and so avoided the cancellation. 
And so I think UKIs poor management of Miss Es policy contributed to it being cancelled a 
second time.
Putting things right
Miss E has told us that she doesnt want her policy reinstated. She said her new policy was 
more expensive. But I cant reasonably hold UKI responsible for another insurers charges. 
But Miss Es been caused distress and inconvenience and had to take out a new policy. The 
investigator recommended that UKI should pay Miss E £200 further compensation for this. I 
think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id require in similar circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K 
Insurance Limited to pay Miss E £200 further compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its level of service. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman