DRN-1348267
 
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs N complain, with the help of Miss N, that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold a 
level term assurance policy to them as they were led to believe the policy was a Whole of 
Life policy.
What happened
In 2004 Mr and Mrs N took out a life policy sold to them by Barclays with a 14 year term. The 
policy has now come to an end and Mr and Mrs N have complained because they say they 
wouldve never taken out the policy if they had been made aware that it wasnt for the whole 
of their lives.
Barclays didnt think it had done anything wrong and said the policy was sold on an 
execution only basis  without advice. It did offer £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the delay in dealing with the complaint.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said he had seen 
no evidence Mr and Mrs N were told the policy was a whole of life policy. He  said the 
application Mr and Mrs N signed showed the term was 14 years and the acceptance form 
signed by Mr and Mrs N also showed this.
The investigator said if Mr and Mrs N thought they were taking out a whole of life policy it 
would be reasonable to expect them to have queried the 14 year term. He said there was no 
evidence Mr and Mrs N had been misled by Barclays. He noted the offer of £100 Barclays 
had made for not dealing with the complaint in the normal timescales, which he thought was 
fair.
Miss N said she vehemently disagreed with the investigators opinion. She referred to the 
documentation showing Mrs N had suffered a recent health scare and that they were told by 
the adviser they had to take the policy out to change their mortgage - which was why they 
were seeing the adviser. 
She said she was disgusted and disappointed that we were taking that stance that Mr and 
Mrs N ought to have read and known what they were taking out. Customers trust advisers to 
advise them appropriately. She said the fact they completed their personal details on the 
application doesnt negate Barclays responsibility or show it acted with integrity. She said 
nobody wouldve purchased this policy as it didnt last for the length of the mortgage it was 
taken out to cover and the premiums were extortionate. 
As Mr and Mrs N didnt agree with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and whyI want to make clear that my role is to consider the evidence provided by the parties and 
make findings on a balance of probability -what is more likely than not  based on that 
evidence. So, I am not saying what definitely did, or didnt, happen.
I accept that Mr and Mrs N genuinely believe now that they were sold a whole of life policy in 
2005. And Miss N clearly has strong feelings that they were misled by Barclays because of 
their belief. 
But I must base my findings and decision on the evidence that is available. In terms of the 
evidence of Mr and Mrs N there is only their recollection of what happened over 14 years 
ago. Memories from so long ago are unlikely to be accurate or complete and are not 
persuasive evidence of what happened when there is no documentary evidence to support 
this.
The limited documentary evidence that is actually available from the time of sale doesnt 
support what they have said. The application that was completed and signed by them shows 
they applied for a policy over a term of 14 years. And the acceptance form sent to them by 
the provider for completion, and signed by them, was a very simple one-page document with 
the term of 14 years again clearly set out.
In the circumstances the term of the policy was clear and, if that isnt what Mr and Mrs N 
wanted, I think it is more likely than not they would have challenged this at the time. I note 
what Miss N has said about customers relying on advisers. But the term was clearly set out, 
and it was apparent the policy wasnt whole of life, so they wouldve been aware the policy 
wasnt what they wanted. There is no evidence to support what they have said about being 
misled about the term of the policy. 
I note that in response to the investigators opinion Miss N said that the policy didnt match 
the mortgage it was taken out to cover. But I have seen nothing to suggest the policy was 
taken out to cover a mortgage and this isnt consistent with the complaint that was put 
forward - that Mr and Mrs N thought the policy was a whole of life policy. 
It has not previously been suggested that the policy was mis-sold because it didnt match the 
term of the mortgage but I have considered this. The application did give the option of taking 
out cover for a mortgage, but that part of the application is clearly crossed through and the 
application was made for personal protection instead. In the circumstances I am not satisfied 
the policy was taken out to protect a mortgage. I have also seen no evidence to support 
what Ms N has said about Mr and Mrs N being told they had to have this particular policy to 
change their mortgage.
In summary I think it is more likely than not Mr and Mrs N were made aware that the policy 
they took out was a level term assurance policy with a term of 14 years and they werent 
misled about it being a whole of life policy. I have seen no evidence they didnt want this 
policy at the time it was taken out.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above and in my provisional 
decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
 Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman