DRN-3042252
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Simpson Kelly Associates Ltd (SKA) 
to transfer deferred benefits from his defined benefit (DB) pension with the British Steel 
Pensions Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. He believes that the advice was unsuitable 
for him and has resulted in a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a private pension arrangement.
It seems Mr H was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the 
security of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. So Mr H contacted a financial adviser, SKA, 
in the first half of 2016. 
SKA gathered information about Mr Hs circumstances and objectives. However, as it didnt 
hold the relevant permission from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to advise on the 
transfer of his defined benefits in the BSPS, it said another firm - which Ill call Firm R - 
could provide Mr H with pension transfer advice. 
On 14 August 2016, Firm R wrote to Mr H and explained that it had provided the pension 
transfer advice Mr H was seeking. It invited Mr H to confirm this, upon which he signed a 
declaration by return. And in September 2016, following Firm Rs advice, £360,909 was 
transferred from the BSPS to a personal pension. After the transfer, agency for the personal 
pension was switched back to SKA for it to provide ongoing advice and servicing on behalf 
of Mr H.
In 2020, Mr H complained to SKA about the advice he says hed been given to transfer out. 
However, SKA told him it hadnt provided him with any advice to transfer his pension  it said 
it had referred him to Firm R. The complaint was then referred to our Service as Mr Hs 
representative says he had never met with Firm R and that his only dealings were with SKA, 
so it should be held liable.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think we should uphold it. They 
werent persuaded that SKA had advised Mr H to transfer his pension and explained that it 
was Firm R that advised him to do so. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
My understanding of Mr Hs representatives position is that SKA should be held liable for the 
pension transfer advice. This is because Mr H implies he never actually met with, or spoke to 
or directly dealt with anyone, from Firm R. He says that whilst he was informed of a third 
partys involvement, he didnt understand the nature and extent of this and he dealt only with 
the adviser from SKA. Mr Hs representative also says SKA did not treat Mr H fairly or have 
regard to his best interests. 
Ill deal with each of these issues in turn.
Did SKA advise Mr H to transfer?
Having considered the available evidence with great care, Im not persuaded that SKA 
advised Mr H to transfer his BSPS benefits. I appreciate that Mr H dealt directly with SKA, 
rather than Firm R. Ive seen evidence of this relationship lasting over a period of weeks, 
with a number of documents and SMS text messages showing an exchange of information 
between Mr H and the SKA adviser. And its evident that during this time Mr H was refining 
his thoughts about what his options might be with regard to his pension. 
Weve been sent quite a lot of documentation relating to this case, but Im not sure if weve 
still got access to all the documentation relating to Mr Hs early relationship with SKA. 
However, I think its safe to say that SKA probably completed a number of important 
preliminary documents. Mr H says this is what happened, and I think documents such as an 
initial fact-find, which would have contained information about Mr Hs pension and what his 
objectives were with regard to it, were prepared by the SKA adviser before Firm R had 
provided its pension advice.
However, its important for me to point out that SKA did not have the necessary regulatory 
permission from the FCA to advise on the transfer of DB occupational pension schemes. 
SKA said it told Mr H that this was the case and, in my view, this was made clear by Firm R 
when it wrote to Mr H on 14 August 2016. In this letter, Firm R said that it was responsible 
for the pension transfer advice. Mr H acknowledged this by signing an attached declaration 
form and returning it to SKA, so I think hed have been aware at that point the pension 
advice was being carried out by a different company.
I accept that some of the documents Ive seen in this case  and most likely some which are 
no longer available to view - were completed by SKA, rather than Firm R. And I recognise 
this could have given rise to a genuine belief that SKA was giving Mr H advice to transfer out 
of his DB scheme. However, I think its likely these documents were prepared for Firm Rs 
benefit should the advice be to go ahead with the pension transfer. 
On the other hand, Ive noted Mr H was provided with other documents too, including a 
Client Agreement and also a Service Proposition & Engagement form, which bore Firm Rs 
name. I also note that Firm R carried out a client attitude assessment, although Mr H 
implies much of this was pre-populated and was, in effect, completed by SKA. Ive also 
seen, however, that on the flexible retirement application form, which would have eventually 
enabled the pension transfer to take place, that the adviser from Firm R was named as 
having provided the transfer advice. In my view, therefore, these things provided further 
information to Mr H that the pension advice was being provided by Firm R, rather than SKA. 
Nevertheless, I think its possible that SKA was hopeful that Firm R would indeed go on to 
advise Mr H to transfer out of the BSPS so it could become his ongoing adviser and receive future advice fees. And its certainly possible that Mr H believed SKA was advocating for the 
transfer of his pension benefits for this reason. I have also considered the content of the 
SMS text message conversations between Mr H and the SKA adviser and emails hes 
provided. The email Mr H sent the SKA adviser in August 2016 in particular does allude to 
Mr H feeling reassured by SKA that he was making the right decision to transfer his benefits. 
However, this email was sent after Firm R had provided its advice  so I dont think it 
demonstrates that SKA had encouraged Mr H to transfer out of the BSPS before Firm Rs 
advice was given.
Overall, I havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that SKA gave Mr H a personal 
recommendation about his pension transfer, either verbally or in writing; in my view the 
evidence points the other way. For example, Ive seen that the agreement about SKAs fees 
related only to ongoing financial advice and not to pension transfer advice. Also, a suitability 
letter was prepared for Mr H by Firm R. So, I think the evidence here is much more 
persuasive that Firm R advised Mr H to transfer out of the BSPS, not SKA.
Even if I consider that its possible that SKA strayed into giving Mr H verbal advice to transfer 
his BSPS benefits, I still dont think he could have done so based on those interactions 
alone. I say this because the transfer value quotation provided by the trustees of the BSPS 
clearly stated that Mr H would be required to provide evidence that he had taken 
appropriate financial advice if he wanted to transfer out of his BSPS benefits to a flexible 
benefits scheme. Mr H also needed to provide a signed confirmation from his adviser that 
such advice had been given. So, I dont think Mr H could have transferred out of the BSPS 
based on the meetings he had with SKA, or any verbal advice he feels he was given  he 
simply wouldnt have been able to meet the trustees requirements.
In the event, it was Firm R which produced a recommendation about the pension transfer, 
which demonstrates it was Firm R that gave Mr H advice in respect of his pension. Ive also 
seen a letter from Mr H himself confirming to the pension trustees that hed had regulated 
financial advice; this also referred to him enclosing the required advice certificate as proof. 
The pension transfer would have been unable to take place without confirmation that a firm 
with the correct FCA permissions had provided the advice in my view. 
All this means Im satisfied it was Firm R that gave the advice for Mr H to transfer out of the 
BSPS. I dont think SKAs earlier involvement, or the fact it facilitated the completion of 
documents, should automatically make it liable for the suitability of the pension transfer 
advice provided by Firm R. It is my view that Firm R remains fully responsible for the advice 
it gave Mr H to transfer out of the BSPS.
I have nevertheless considered whether Mr H would have still opted to transfer his benefits 
out of the BSPS to a personal arrangement if Firm R had advised him not to transfer. Mr Hs 
representative says he was persuaded to transfer based upon his interactions with SKA. But 
on balance I dont think Mr H would have gone against the advice provided by Firm R. Mr H 
was still a few years below the age he wanted to retire at, which were only aspirational 
retirement plans at that stage. I think if Firm R had provided Mr H with clear advice in writing 
against transferring, explaining why it wasnt suitable for him, I dont think Mr H wouldve 
acted against that advice purely based on his earlier discussions with SKA.
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Rs advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr H to transfer. If this advice was unsuitable, then I think Firm R is responsible for 
Mr Hs losses flowing from the transfer.
Did SKA and Firm R embark on a joint venture?Mr Hs representative says a joint venture existed between SKA and Firm R to facilitate Mr H 
transferring out of the BSPS and that both businesses remain jointly liable for any financial 
loss Mr H has suffered.
For the reasons Ive already set out above I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
SKA liable for the advice given to Mr H to transfer his BSPS benefits. Although Mr Hs 
representative states that Mr H was verbally advised to transfer by SKA, Im satisfied Mr H 
transferred his BSPS benefits because Firm R advised him to do so, independently of SKAs 
involvement. So, I think Mr Hs losses flow from Firm Rs advice, rather than because of any 
interaction he had with SKA before that.
SKA did not treat Mr H fairly or have due regard to his best interests
Mr Hs representative has suggested that SKA didnt treat Mr H fairly or act in his best 
interests by partnering with Firm R. It says that SKA ought to have known that transferring 
out of a DB scheme was rarely the right thing to do. Instead, it said it endorsed the advice.
However, as I have said above, SKA did not have the necessary regulatory permission to 
advise Mr H on the transfer of his BSPS benefits. So, SKA could not have advised Mr H 
against transferring, based on what it may have generally known about the regulators 
starting position that it wont usually be in a customers best interests to transfer out. As SKA 
didnt have the necessary permissions, it referred Mr H to Firm R, which was regulated by 
the FCA to provide pension transfer advice. I dont think SKA could reasonably be expected 
to carry out further due diligence on Firm R, particularly as Firm R had the necessary 
permissions from the FCA to provide this advice. And, as a regulated adviser, it was also 
required to treat Mr H fairly, act in his best interests and provide him with suitable advice.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that it was SKAs advice that ultimately led to 
Mr Hs decision to transfer out of the BSPS, without the actions of Firm R. I am also not 
persuaded that SKA made an error or treated Mr H unfairly in the role it carried out. Because 
of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require SKA to pay compensation to Mr H or to take any further action in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision 
before 25 October 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman