DRN-2937836
The complaint
Mr T complains that Santander UK plcs alerts tell him hes above his overdraft limit, but he
isnt. Mr T says the banks misleading information is distressing.
What happened
Mr T has a Choice Current Account with Santander, that includes an overdraft. Mr T says he 
receives alerts from the bank that say hes over his overdraft limit. But he says he receives 
these when he hasnt gone over his limit, and that Santanders misleading alerts cause 
considerable distress.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She considered 
Santander had given a reasonable explanation for why its alerts said Mr T was above his 
overdraft limit.
Mr T disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He said Santanders explanation was 
difficult for regular customers to understand, and he maintained that the misleading alerts
caused distress. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 14 June 2021. I said I wasnt minded to 
uphold the complaint, but that my reasons were different to the investigators. Details of my 
provisional findings are set out below:
Id reviewed the Key Facts document for Santanders Choice Current account. 
Paragraph 6.3 says (amongst other things):
6.3 Overdraft alerts
You will automatically be set up to receive an alert when:
- youve made a payment that may take, or has taken you into an 
Unarranged Overdraft;
Id also looked at the account activity for Mr Ts account. It seemed some of the 
alerts hed received were sent when certain payments or direct debits were about 
to be taken. These payments would have taken Mr T above his overdraft limit, 
even though at the point the alerts were sent he was below the limit.
From what I could tell, these were payments that may have taken him into an 
unarranged overdraft, as referred to in paragraph 6.3 above. In other words, they 
were pending payments.
Santander had also clarified that these are regulatory alerts that are sent when 
pending payments are due, and will or may take the balance above the overdraft 
limit. I was satisfied that these alerts were accurate and had been sent in line with 
the accounts terms and conditions.
Santander had also explained that it sends service alerts when a customer is 
within £50 of their overdraft limit. I thought this might explain why Mr T 
occasionally receives alerts telling him hes above his overdraft limit when, in fact, 
he is technically below it.
I could see why Mr T may be unhappy with the wording of Santanders service 
alerts. But the bank had explained that the alerts are designed to help customers 
manage their accounts and avoid charges. I was mindful that the alerts arent sent 
until customers are very close to their overdraft limit, and I didnt consider the £50 
limit it had set was unreasonable here.
I realised that the way Santander had set up these alerts means that, sometimes, 
Mr T will get alerts before hes reached his overdraft limit. And I could see why that 
would be frustrating and upsetting for him. But I had to weigh this up against 
Santanders explanation that the alerts are intended to notify customers of potential 
difficulties and help them manage their accounts. And Santander had now 
explained in more detail the circumstances in which the service alerts are sent, so 
Mr T could manage his account with this in mind. On this basis, I didnt think 
Santander needed to do any more here.
Santander had said its also possible for customers to opt out of receiving the service 
alerts  which Mr T may want to consider if they continue to cause him distress.
When I took all of these points into account, I didnt consider Santanders use 
of service alerts in the circumstances here was unreasonable, even if the 
wording of the alert hadnt always been entirely accurate in terms of Mr Ts 
situation.
Mr T was concerned about the impact of these alerts in a wider sense and how 
they may impact on other customers. But this service can only consider the 
individual complaints that are referred to us. Having done so here, overall I wasnt 
persuaded Santander had acted unreasonably so I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint.
Mr T responded with an example of what he considers to be one of Santanders 
misleading alerts, together with the wording used when customers go into an unarranged 
overdraft. Mr T remained unhappy with the service alert wording.
Santander said it didnt have anything to add in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what Mr T has said about the example alerts hes provided in response to my 
provisional decision. But as I said in that decision, Santander had explained that its service 
alerts are intended to notify customers of potential difficulties and help them manage their 
accounts.
Despite what Mr T has said, I still dont consider Santanders use of service alerts in the 
circumstances here is unreasonable. So Im not minded to depart from the position set out in 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman