DRN-4005569
The complaint
Miss O complains about the quality of a car she acquired under a hire purchase agreement 
with MI Vehicle Finance Limited (MI Finance).
What happened
In September 2020, Miss O entered into a hire purchase agreement with MI Finance to 
acquire a used car first registered in April 2018. The car had travelled approximately 3,690 
miles. The cash price of the car was around £13,389. Miss O provided an advance payment 
of around £370, and there were 59 monthly payments of approximately £250 plus a final 
repayment of around £251 which included credit arrangement and the option to purchase 
fees.
Miss O said, in summary, that in May 2021 she noticed that when driving the check engine 
light would sometimes come on for the remainder of the journey and then disappear 
overnight. This would happen once every couple of weeks and when the engine light was 
on, the car experienced infrequent jolting while driving. She said this was almost as if the 
brake pedal was being pushed at random intervals, or, when she was slowly pulling
away from traffic lights, as if the car was in an incorrect gear. So, she had it checked out by 
one of her car manufacturers approved dealerships  who I will refer to as the repair shop. 
In July 2021 this repair shop couldnt find any faults. The car had travelled approximately a 
total of 7,516 miles at that time. As the issues got worse with time, Miss O had it checked out 
again in November 2021. This time the repair shop was able to confirm that the car was 
struggling in gears. Miss O said that car had travelled approximately 9,000 miles at the time. 
The diagnostic report done by the repair shop cost £359.99. Miss O said that she 
corresponded with the head office of her cars manufacturer, who agreed, as a gesture of 
goodwill, to cover the cost of this diagnostic report plus the cost of the car being transported 
from the repair shop to a gearbox garage. 
In November 2021, Miss O said that she raised a complaint with MI Finance and they 
requested an estimate for the work that needed to be carried out. She asked them if there 
was a preferred gearbox garage they would want her to book the car in with, but was told 
that any VAT approved gearbox specialist would be acceptable to obtain an estimate. The 
repair shop recommended a gearbox garage to Miss O  I will refer to this garage as the 
transmission shop. Miss O had the car transported to the transmission shop from the repair 
shop and paid £78 for the gearbox specialist diagnostic test. The transmission shop 
estimated that the car needed a new gearbox/transmission costing £3,600.
In March 2022, MI Finance wrote to Miss O. In this correspondence they said that the car 
had been in her possession in excess of 12 months when she raised a complaint with them. 
And they said that they havent received sufficient evidence that the fault was present when 
she bought the car. They also said that they have contacted the car manufacturer who were 
unwilling to assist with the repair. But MI Finance decided to make her a gesture of goodwill 
offer without admission of liability. As part of this offer, they agreed to pay for the repairs 
needed to the gearbox/transmission at the transmission shop from which Miss O provided a 
cost estimate. They also agreed to reimburse her £78 she paid for the gearbox specialist 
diagnostic test; Plus cover the storage charges which have been incurred (approximately 
£294 at the time of their response). 
MI Finance have told our service that on 14th March 2022, they paid a total of £432 to Miss 
O. This covered the storage fees incurred (£294), fee to move the car (£60), and the
diagnostic fees when the car was first booked in at the transmission shop (£78).
Our investigator thought that the car was not of satisfactory quality when supplied to Miss O 
and that MI Finance needed to do something to put things right. He thought MI Finances 
offer was reasonable but thought they should also refund Miss O her full monthly payments 
from September 2021 until the car has been successfully repaired and returned to her. He 
thought they should refund 15% of her payments from May 2021 to September 2021 to 
reflect the impaired use of the car. Plus pay 8% simple yearly interest on any refunded 
amounts from the date of payment until the date of settlement. The investigator also though 
that MI Finance should pay Miss O £200 for any distress or inconvenience caused. Plus, on 
production of a valid receipt, he thought that they should cover the costs of the initial 
diagnostics / test carried out by the local garage. 
MI Finance agreed with the investigator. 
Miss O agreed with the investigator too, but also questioned whether the issues with the 
battery failing would be covered. She said that, due to the time the car being left idle, the 
battery has failed and she said that she mentioned this to MI Finance previously. And then 
later, on 2 August 2022, Miss O wrote to our service saying that the transmission shop has 
fixed the gearbox, but she cant pick up the car from there as it has failed its MOT. She said, 
that the car failed an MOT because some of the cars doors are shut and cant be reopened. 
She said that previously it was assumed that this was the fault of the battery, but the battery 
had been replaced and the issue is still there.   
On 30 August 2022, MI Finance told our service that they will pay for the battery 
replacement and for a second MOT that will be required. Our investigator wrote back to MI 
Finance to say Miss O has confirmed that the car will be moved to the repair shop from the 
transmission shop, to complete the repairs on the doors that are not opening. In this 
correspondence the investigator said that, as the fault is linked to the original issue, he 
would expect MI Finance to cover the further costs to repair and to transport the car from the 
transmission shop to the repair shop. He explained that, although the car can be driven 
without an MOT to have the repairs carried out, he didnt think it's unreasonable for Miss O 
to have the car transported to the repair shop, because the car has failed the MOT due to 
the doors not opening. 
MI Finance replied and said that they have not seen any evidence of what the fault is and
whether it is, in fact, linked to the original fault. So, they said, they would need to see the 
report from repair shop to assess this complaint further.
Miss O provided an email from the repair shop that they checked the door operation and that 
all five doors open, close, lock, and unlock as normal, so they said they are unable to 
replicate or check further the fault that some of the doors were not opening. As part of this 
correspondence, the repair shop also attached a short video which they said shows oil leaks 
on the gearbox. The repair shop said that there are a few traces of oil leaks, the first one on 
the video shows dark coloured oil which is possibly engine oil as its quite dark and the rest 
is mainly when the video gets to 25 seconds and the black cover has traces of clearer oil. 
They said the next step would be to have the oil cleaned off and then retested but if the dark 
oil is engine oil, the gearbox may need to be removed for further investigation. They said 
they couldnt be any more specific on what was leaking or any costs involved, only that more 
time and investigation is required.Based on this information, our investigator thought that there was enough information 
available to confirm that the initial repair had failed, or that further issues have arisen with 
the car. So, he was of the opinion that, due to the current condition of the car, it was fair for 
Miss O to be able to reject it. He thought that MI Finance should reimburse Miss O for the 
cost of the failed MOT and the replacement of the battery because, he thought, the issue 
with the doors was most likely linked to the flat battery and the car being stationary for a long 
period of time. He also thought that, due to further issues arising with the car, MI Finance 
should pay a further £100 for distress and inconvenience caused.  
MI Finance disagreed with the investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
After reviewing the case, I issued a provisional decision on 23 February 2023. In the 
provisional decision I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Im very aware Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every individual detail. But Ive 
focussed on those that are central to me reaching what I think is the right outcome. This 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Miss O acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. MI Finance is the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for dealing with 
complaints about their quality. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements 
such as the one Miss O entered into. Under the agreement there is an implied term that the 
goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says that goods will be considered to 
be of satisfactory quality where they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory  taking into account the description of the goods, the price paid and 
other relevant circumstances. I think in this case those relevant circumstances include, but 
are not limited to, the age and mileage of the car and the cash price. The CRA says the 
quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability.
In Miss Os case, the car was used, with a cash price of around £13,389. It had travelled 
approximately 3,690 miles and was approximately two and a half years old when she 
acquired it. I would have different expectations of it compared to a brand-new car. But given 
the age, mileage and price paid, I think it is fair to say that a reasonable person would have 
high expectations of it and would expect the quality of the car to be of a higher standard than a car which is more road-worn or has a lower price. Also, I think a reasonable person would 
expect it to be free from defects for a considerable period of time.
Considering the age and mileage of the car, and the faults Miss O experienced with the 
gearbox, I think a reasonable person wouldnt consider it reasonable for the car to have a 
significant fault such as gearbox/transmission failing. I understand that a gearbox may 
experience wear over time, but considering the circumstances of this case, I think most 
likely, a reasonable length of time for a car not to need a gearbox replacement would be 
more than 9,000 miles or three years. I think needing to replace a gearbox is a significant 
problem to arise on a car and it can be very expensive to put right. Given how, relatively, low 
the overall mileage of the car was, I do not think this was a cost a reasonable person would 
expect to bear, or a fault that would be expected to arise in the time frame Miss O has had 
the car. So, I dont think the car was sufficiently durable. For this reason, I do not think the 
car was of satisfactory quality. I know this is not so much in dispute, as MI Finance did agree 
to cover the costs of repairs associated with the gearbox failure, so Ive gone on to consider 
what happened afterwards.
On 2 August 2022, Miss O wrote to our service saying that the transmission shop has fixed 
the gearbox, but she cant pick up the car from them as it has failed its MOT. She said that 
the car has failed an MOT because some of the cars doors are shut and cant be reopened. 
She said that previously it was assumed that this was the fault of the battery, but the battery 
has been replaced and the issue is still there. I understand that the issue with the doors fixed 
itself shortly after the battery was replaced so it is no longer of concern, but I have 
considered whether MI Finance should be responsible to pay for the battery replacement 
and for a second MOT. 
MI Finance initially agreed to pay these costs, but have since told our service that they 
shouldnt be responsible for the amount of time it has taken for the original repair to be 
undertaken, which in turn, seemingly, caused the flat battery. They said the transmission 
shop were not their agents, nor acting on their behalf, so they do not feel that they should be 
liable for the cost of the battery, nor for the failed MOT. But considering the circumstances of 
this complaint I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for them not to be responsible for 
these two expenses. MI Finance had a chance to take the car to a garage of their choosing 
and Ive not seen any evidence to show that they have tried to do that. Ive also considered 
that the amount of time it took before they agreed to pay for the repairs prolonged the repair 
process, which is ultimately why the battery failed and in turn, most likely, caused the MOT 
to fail. Also, I dont think Miss O wouldve incurred these issues had they provided her with a 
car that was of satisfactory quality. But I dont think they should be responsible for any costs 
incurred for transport of the car from the transmission shop to the repair shop, once the 
gearbox was fixed, as Miss O couldve driven the car herself. 
Once the car was back at the repair shop, Miss O said that there were further issues 
identified. The repair shop found other issues and they attached a short video which they 
said shows oil leaks on the gearbox. The repair shop, in the email correspondence, said that 
there are a few traces of oil leaks, the first one on the video shows dark coloured oil which is 
possibly engine oil as it is quite dark and the rest is mainly when the video gets to 25 
seconds and the black cover has traces of clearer oil. The next step would be to have the oil 
cleaned off and then retested but if the dark oil is engine oil, the gearbox may need to be 
removed for further investigation. We cannot be any more specific on what is leaking or any 
costs only because more time and investigation is required. So, based on this, Miss O thinks 
that she should be able to reject the car. 
MI Finance disagrees. In summary, they said Miss O would only be able to reject the car if 
the repairs they had paid for have now failed. They said that there is an absence of 
evidence, and no connection has been established, between the original gearbox issues and the oil traces which the repair shop has found. So, they said it could be a new issue, it could 
be a related issue, or it could be no issue at all (or at least not one giving Miss O the right to 
reject). They also said that as there is no conclusive evidence whats leaking, it is plausible 
that this is a minor issue (if, indeed, it is an issue at all), and entirely unconnected with the 
original gearbox issue or the repair work carried out in relation to it. So, Ive considered this.
The CRA set out that Miss O has a short term right to reject the car within the first 30 days of 
supply, if the car is of unsatisfactory quality. However, she would need to ask for rejection 
within that time. Miss O would not be able to retrospectively exercise her short term right of 
rejection at a later date. As she was unaware of the fault within the first 30 days, she couldnt 
possibly express her wish to reject the car within that time. The CRA also say that, if the car 
acquired wasnt of satisfactory quality, or not as described, then Miss O would be entitled to 
still return it after 30 days, but Miss O doesnt have the right to reject the car until she has 
exercised her right to a repair. So, Miss O doesnt have an automatic right to return the car. 
For me to conclude that Miss O can exercise her right to reject the car, I would need to see 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, because the faults she complains about were likely 
to have been present or developing at the point of sale, and that MI Finances attempt to 
repair them has failed.
I know that the repair shop has indicated that there were a few traces of oil leaks, but the car 
just had a new transmission fluid and its engine oil replaced at the beginning of August 2022, 
so it could be that these traces are just a result of some spillage that occurred during the 
gearbox repair and the maintenance that followed. But in this decision, it is not for me to 
speculate why these oil traces are there, so I have instead considered the evidence 
available to me. The email from the repair shop says that they cant be specific on what is 
leaking as more investigation is required. The evidence provided doesnt demonstrate the 
repair has failed and that the issues Miss O has experienced previously have reoccurred 
again. It seems that, most likely, this fault with the gearbox/transmission has now been fixed 
and I havent seen anything to support that it hasnt. So, while I sympathise with the situation 
Miss O finds herself in, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to allow her to exercise her 
right to reject the car. 
As I said above, its most likely the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time of supply and 
this matter caused Miss O a lot of distress and inconvenience when trying to resolve it. I 
think it was also very stressful for her when she was arranging and using alternative 
transport. And I know she had to correspond extensively with the garages as well as with MI 
Finance. I dont think she wouldve needed to do any of those things had MI Finance 
supplied her with a car that was of a satisfactory quality at the point of supply. So, I think MI 
Finance should pay Miss O £200 in compensation to fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her.
Miss O has been able to use the car from September 2020 until November 2021, but the 
gearbox wasnt working properly since May 2021 onwards. Driving the car while the gears 
were sticking is likely to have been somewhat stressful and annoying to her. So, this would 
have reduced the utility and enjoyment Miss O would have had while driving it. There is no 
exact mathematical method to quantify the impact on Miss O having to drive the car with this 
issue, but having considered the circumstances, I think that Miss O should be entitled to 
receive back 15% of the six hire purchase repayments she made from May 2021 to 
November 2021. Also, Miss O didnt drive the car from November 2021 until it was fixed in 
August 2022, which is approximately nine months loss of use. So, I think it is fair that shes 
also refunded nine months worth of hire purchase repayments.
MI Finance have told our service that on 14th March 2022, they paid a total of £432 to Miss 
O. This covered the storage fees incurred (£294), fee to move the car (£60) and thediagnostic fees when car was first booked in at transmission shop (£78). I think it was fair 
and reasonable for them to pay these, as Miss O wouldnt have incurred these had she been 
provided with a car of satisfactory quality in the first place. But I also think they should pay, 
or refund, her the transportation cost she has incurred when transporting the car back to the 
transmission shop in July 2022 on production of a valid receipt or invoice if this has not yet 
been paid. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to partially uphold this complaint and direct MI Vehicle 
Finance Limited to:
-Pay or refund the expense for the gearbox repairs, if this has not yet been paid or 
refunded;
-Pay or refund the expense for the replacement of the battery, if this has not yet been 
paid or refunded;
-Refund Miss O 15% of the six months hire purchase repayments she has made from 
May 2021 to November 2021;
-Refund Miss O nine months of the hire purchase repayments she has made from 
November 2021 until the car was fixed in August 2022 to cover the loss of use;
-Pay or refund Miss O the transportation costs she incurred when transporting the car 
back to the transmission shop in July 2022, on production of a valid receipt or 
invoice, if this has not yet been paid;
-Add 8% simple interest per year to all of the above points above from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement;
-Pay Miss O £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If MI Vehicle Finance Limited considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of 
my award, they should provide Miss O with a certificate showing how much they have taken 
off so she can reclaim that amount, if she is eligible to do so. 
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional comments or information they would 
like me to consider by 9 March 2023 and our service explained that if both parties reply 
before then, I may be able to give my final decision sooner.
MI Finance responded and said they had nothing further to add. 
Miss O responded and said she didnt agree with my provisional decision, so Ive considered 
her response and Ill comment below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss O, when responding to my provisional decision, said, in summary, that in her opinion 
the car is still not repaired and it isnt in a road worthy condition. She said that despite a new 
gearbox being installed, the car still wasnt returned to her in a working state, so she said 
that she shouldnt be liable for fixing additional faults. She reiterated that the repair shop has 
indicated that there were a few traces of oil leaks, so she says that until further diagnosis is 
done there is no way of confirming the replaced gearbox is now working correctly. She said 
that because the car had a service done after the gearbox had been fitted, and then not 
driven on a road, she feels there should be no oil leaks at all. She doesnt feel that it is fair 
that MI Finance can disagree with the finding that further investigation is required. And she 
feels that any additional faults that occurred must ultimately be MI Finances responsibility. Ive considered this, but for me to conclude that Miss O can exercise her right to reject the 
car, I would need to see that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, because the faults she 
complains about were likely to have been present or developing at the point of sale, and that 
MI Finances attempt to repair them has failed. The evidence provided doesnt demonstrate 
the repair has failed and it doesnt demonstrate that the issues Miss O has experienced 
previously have reoccurred again. As I mentioned in my provisional decision, the email from 
the repair shop says that they cant be specific about what is leaking, as more investigation 
is required. As such, the evidence provided doesnt demonstrate the repair has failed. And I 
still think that, most likely, the fault with the gearbox has been fixed and I havent seen 
anything to support that it hasnt. 
Also, Miss O told us, in detail, about how she was impacted when the car was stored in her 
possession before the gearbox replacement took place. She said that she was unable to 
drive the car at that time, and she explained how the situation has impacted her family 
relations, and the distress and inconvenience that has been caused to her and others. So, 
Miss O feels that the £200 compensation doesnt fairly reflect the impact of the situation. 
It is important for me to first explain that in this decision I can only consider the impact the 
situation had on Miss O directly. In my provisional decision I felt that it was fair for MI 
Finance to refund Miss O nine months worth of the hire purchase repayments she has made 
from November 2021 until the car was fixed in August 2022. This was to cover the loss of 
use when she was unable to use the car. And while I appreciate the difficult situation Miss O 
was in, I still think that £200 in compensation fairly reflects the direct distress and 
inconvenience caused to her. I know that Miss O is arguing that she still has no use of the 
car and that she should be refunded further monthly payments and other expenses. She 
said that she feels unsafe and uneasy with the new gearbox. But I havent seen anything to 
support that most likely the gearbox repair has failed, as mentioned above, and in my 
provisional decision. So, it would not be fair or reasonable for me to ask MI Finance to 
refund her any other monthly payments. 
Miss O, in her reply to my provisional decision, again mentioned that the car had failed its 
MOT and that the intermittent issues with the doors locking had not been resolved. But the 
repair shop couldnt find this issue with the doors, and Ive not seen any other evidence that 
this issue has reoccurred. And Ive already concluded in my provisional decision that MI 
Finance should be responsible to pay for the battery replacement and for the second MOT, 
and I remain of that opinion.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I require MI Vehicle Finance 
Limited to:
- Pay or refund the expense for the gearbox repairs, if this has not yet been paid or 
refunded;
- Pay or refund the expense for the replacement of the battery, if this has not yet been 
paid or refunded;
- Refund Miss O 15% of the six months hire purchase repayments she has made from 
May 2021 to November 2021;
- Refund Miss O nine months of the hire purchase repayments she has made from 
November 2021 until the car was fixed in August 2022 to cover the loss of use;
- Pay or refund Miss O the transportation costs she incurred when transporting the car 
back to the transmission shop in July 2022, on production of a valid receipt or 
invoice, if this has not yet been paid;- Add 8% simple interest per year to all of the above points above from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement;
- Pay Miss O £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If MI Vehicle Finance Limited considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of 
my award, they should provide Miss O with a certificate showing how much they have taken 
off so she can reclaim that amount, if she is eligible to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman