DRN-1694295
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that under his AA European Breakdown Cover provided by Acromas 
Insurance Company Limited he was refused recovery of his motorcycle to the UK and his 
repatriation. 
What happened
Mr B purchased breakdown cover in May 2019 to cover his trip to France by motorcycle.  He 
says he thought he was buying breakdown and accident cover.
Mr B was involved in a road traffic accident whilst in France.  Immediately following the 
accident he rode the motorcycle back to his hotel not realising that there was damage to the 
bike or that he was seriously injured.  He was then taken to hospital for several days.  The 
motorcycle remained in the car park of his hotel. 
Mr B telephoned the AA from hospital. He explained what had happened and that he wanted 
his motorcycle recovered to the UK. He was advised that he should inform his insurers and 
that they should organise recovery of the bike.  Mr B told the AA that his insurers wouldnt 
assist, and he felt that it was not safe to ride long distance as he wasnt sure about the 
damage.  Mr B says that the AA should have examined his motorcycle to see what damage 
was caused and whether it was safe to ride.
The AA said that they could not help Mr B as the breakdown assistance only covered 
damaged vehicles and Mr Bs motorcycle could be ridden.  They said they had also advised 
Mr B to contact his insurers to arrange recovery.
As the AA had declined to assist, Mr B made his own arrangements to get himself, his wife 
and motorcycle back to the UK.  The cost of this was £1,940 and Mr B would like this sum 
refunded to him by the AA.  
Our investigator considered the case but did not uphold Mr Bs complaint.  She felt that the 
AA were not responsible for recovering the motorcycle.  This should have been undertaken 
by his insurers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to say at the outset that I do understand that this whole experience must have 
been very upsetting for Mr B and his wife.   
Ive looked very carefully at Mr Bs breakdown cover documents to see what they say.  The 
terms and conditions booklet says that if the customer has an accident, they must provide 
the AA with their insurance details.  They must also report the accident to their insurers as it 
is the insurers who will give instructions how to deal with any repair and recovery. If details 
of the insurers are not provided, assistance may be refused.  This information is also 
contained in the Insurance Product Information Document sent to Mr B.
I havent seen that Mr B provided his insurance details to the AA. He was properly advised 
during his telephone conversations with the AA that he should contact his insurers.  I have 
seen reference to the fact that he did, but also that his insurers would not offer any 
assistance.  I am not aware of the reason for this, but if Mr B thinks this decision was wrong 
he should take this up with his insurers.
Roadside assistance insurance doesnt usually cover picking up vehicles after road traffic 
accidents. This is generally the responsibility of motor insurers. I have seen nothing in Mr Bs 
policy documents to persuade me that his particular breakdown cover is any different.
In addition, the policy terms and conditions in Section 7 say that the cost of recovery to the 
UK would only be covered following roadside assistance if repairs could not be completed in 
time for any planned return home.  No roadside assistance was provided to Mr B and no 
repairs were requested by Mr B in France.  Recovery and repatriation costs would also have 
been excluded under the policy if Mr B was not fit to ride the motorcycle. 
The AA also say that the motorcycle was not damaged and therefore not recoverable.  Mr B 
accepts that he told the AA initially that he had ridden the motorcycle after the accident and 
that there was no significant damage.  He has since had the motorcycle repaired in the UK 
and said hed been advised that the motorcycle would have been unsafe to ride.  The AA 
were not, however, aware of this at the time and I dont think there was any requirement 
under the policy for the AA to inspect the motorcycle to see if it was roadworthy.  Assistance 
and repairs are offered at the roadside, but Mr B did not seek assistance at the roadside 
having ridden his motorcycle back to his hotel. 
I do not find that the AA have treated Mr B unfairly. I realise that Mr B will be disappointed 
with my decision, but I do hope he understands the reasons behind it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman