DRN-2447973
The complaint
Mr K as owner of U (a business) complains that TSB Bank Plc closed his business account 
without due process
What happened
The details of the complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will
explain why.
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close 
an account with it. But before it closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account. Having reviewed the terms 
and conditions I am satisfied it says that TSB Bank Plc can close an account if it 
gives a customer two months written notice.
Mr K has said he never received the letter advising him that the account was going to 
be closed. But having reviewed the system notes provided by TSB I can see that 
notice of account closure was sent to Mr K on 12 August 2019. So, while I appreciate 
Mr K has said it didnt receive the letter, I am satisfied that the letter was issued by 
TSB, as such I cant hold it responsible for the errors of the postal service. 
Mr K says that TSB has a duty to ensure these types of letters are sent special 
delivery or recorded delivery. But having reviewed the terms and conditions I cant 
see where it states that. And so, I cant say TSB has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Having considered the timeframe TSB provided, Mr K was given two months notice. 
So, with that in mind I cant say TSB has acted unfairly. I appreciate Mr K feels it was 
unfair but as I explained a bank can choose to close a customers account if it follows 
the correct process and I can see that in this case TSB has.
Therefore, I wont be asking TSB to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman
