DRN-3423956
The complaint
Mr W complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) didnt provide him 
with the service it should have regarding his options for a charge card.
What happened
Mr W has had and AMEX charge card since 1998 on which he has paid an annual fee. He 
says that he initially received reward points, but AMEX then changed the card structure, so 
the reward points were an add on at an additional cost. Mr W says he didnt pay the 
additional fee and so didnt get the reward points. Mr W says that recently he discovered that 
AMEX also offered a basic charge card which has no annual fee and provides similar 
benefits to his charge card. He says he should have been made aware of this basic card or 
transferred to the basic card when it was clear he wasnt adding the reward points back. He 
doesnt think he has been treated fairly.
AMEX issued its final response in January 2022. It said that under the terms and conditions, 
Mr W could choose to apply for a card with certain benefits or opt for a basic card. It said 
that it wasnt its working practice to contact card members in relation to changing their 
product and that Mr W could apply at any time for a new product. AMEX didnt accept that it 
had done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think that AMEX had done anything 
wrong or treated Mr W unfairly.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that AMEX should have treated him 
fairly by giving him the information about the basic charge card. He says he has paid an 
annual fee for nothing over many years.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr W is upset as he feels he has been paying an annual fee for a 
charge card that provides him no more benefits than he would have using a different charge 
card that doesnt have an annual fee. Mr W has explained that he has now transferred to the 
basic charge card and so will not incur annual fees going forward.
Based on Mr Ws testimony, I do not doubt that he would have switched his card sooner had 
he been aware of the basic charge card option. However, for me to uphold this complaint I 
would need to be satisfied that AMEX had done something wrong or treated Mr W unfairly.
When Mr W applied for his card I understand the basic charge card option wasnt available. 
Mr W has said that he initially received reward points which he used and I have nothing to 
suggest that Mr W wasnt happy with the charge card when he first received this. Changes 
were made to the card and I understand this meant the reward points became an add on at 
a cost. Mr W was aware of this and says he chose not to pay the additional fee. Therefore, I 
cannot say that Mr W wasnt aware of the changes at that time and had he not been happy 
he could have looked for an alternative product.
I appreciate that Mr W feels he should have been transferred to the basic card or at least 
made aware this option was available given his use of his card. But I do not find I can say 
that AMEX did anything wrong by not taking that action. Companies will provide information 
about their products to customers from time to time, but it is up to the customer to ensure 
they have the product they want. I have nothing to show that Mr W raised concerns about 
the card he had before this complaint and so AMEX would not have been aware that he was 
dissatisfied with the product. What I would expect is for AMEX to allow Mr W to cancel his 
card and apply for an alternative product if he wished and the terms and conditions are clear 
that this was an option available to him. 
Mr W doesnt think he has been treated fairly as he feels he has paid for a charge card that 
provides no more benefits that the charge card with no fee. I understand the point he has 
made. However, Mr W was aware of the cost of his card and what his card offered. He 
wasnt treated any differently to any other customers in regard to the card he was provided 
with. Therefore while I appreciate Mr Ws comments about the costs he has incurred, in this 
case I do not find I can say that AMEX treated Mr W differently to any other customers and 
as Mr W could have cancelled his charge card at any time and applied for an alternative 
product, I cannot say he has been treated unfairly.
I understand the points Mr W has made and that this outcome will be disappointing. But in 
this case I do not find I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman