DRN-2699079
The complaint
Mrs S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold her a packaged bank account 
(PBA). 
What happened
Mrs Ss bank account with NatWest has changed over the years:
Mrs S opened a NatWest current account in April 2009  this was fee free. 
The account changed to an Advantage Gold account in September 2009. This 
incurred a monthly fee. 
NatWest migrated the account to a Select Platinum account in July 2015.
The account was changed to a Reward Silver account in January 2016. This incurred 
a monthly fee. 
Mrs S has said she never knew she was paying a fee for these bank accounts. 
One of my fellow ombudsmen decided that we cant look into the sale of the Advantage Gold 
Account, which happened in September 2009. This is because we must follow the rules set 
down by the Financial Conduct Authority  and those rules have time limits. My colleague 
decided that the time limits stopped us looking at the September 2009 sale. 
I accept that Mrs S is very unhappy with how she first came to be paying fees for her 
account. But weve not looked into the sale that happened in September 2009. Instead weve 
been able only to look into what happened in July 2015 and January 2016. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint (about 
the events of July 2015 and January 2016) shouldnt be upheld. Mrs S didnt agree, and so 
the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
What happened in July 2015 wasnt actually a new sale  it was really just a rebranding of 
the existing account. I dont think those changes by themselves caused any significant 
difference to Mrs S. The cost was the same and the benefits generally the same. 
Ive thought about what happened when the account changed to a Reward Silver in January 
2016.
Mrs S has told us about her severe ill health and medical treatment, and said how this was 
still affecting her in 2016. Ive taken that into consideration. But Ive seen evidence that 
Mrs S did go online and actively choose to change her account in 2016. The computer 
records show she answered specific questions as part of the process, including confirming 
that she understood the mobile phone insurance.
So I think its likely Mrs S made an active decision to change her account, and I think its 
likely she understood she was doing this. 
Ive also seen evidence that the banks website, at the time, did set out the different account 
options, and made clear that Mrs S would be paying a fee if she chose the Reward Silver 
account. 
I also think its likely NatWest gave her enough information for her to decide if the accounts 
benefits were worth the cost, and whether they suited her requirements. So it was up to 
Mrs S to decide if she thought it good value.
Overall, Ive not found evidence of a mis-sale. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman