DRN-3325921
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund the money he lost to an 
investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mr M was contacted by Tradefintech.com (TF), which he 
believed was an investment company. He says he was directed to download remote-access 
software so that TF could trade for him, and it told him it could double his investment. In 
April 2018, Mr M paid TF £2,000 from his Barclays credit card.
In mid-2019, Mr M contacted Barclays to report that TF was a scam. He thinks the trading 
platform was a fake. Barclays said there wasnt enough evidence to pursue a successful 
chargeback or Section 75 claim. So it wouldnt refund him.
Our investigator thought TF was likely a legitimate merchant, so didnt recommend that 
Barclays should refund Mr M. He disagreed, so the case was escalated to me to determine. 
I issued my provisional decision earlier this month explaining why I was minded to uphold 
this complaint. I invited both parties to provide further comments and evidence. Barclays 
has responded to accept my findings, and Mr M has confirmed he has nothing more to add. 
So Im now proceeding to issue my determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither side has provided further comments or evidence, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings. And so I make them final. Im upholding the complaint for these 
reasons:
Its not in dispute that, for the purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017, 
Mr M authorised this payment. So the starting position is that hes liable for it, as 
Barclays is expected to act on his instructions without undue delay.
But there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account 
relevant rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so 
should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before 
making the payment.
That said, when simply executing authorised payments, banks dont have to protect 
their customers against the risk of bad bargains or give investment advice. So, Ive 
first considered whether Tradefintech.com was a legitimate trader. For these 
reasons, I dont think it was:
oThe Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organisation of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO) publishes warnings about firms providing investment 
services without proper authorisation. It published a warning about TF in 
April 2017.
oFrom January 2018, binary options, forex and CFD traders operating in the 
UK were required to be regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
TF wasnt. The FCA also issued a warning about FT in May 2018, explaining 
it was targeting people in the UK without being regulated. 
oAlthough I place less weight on this, theres anecdotal information online 
suggesting TF was a scam. Weighing this up alongside the regulatory 
warnings Ive found, which are indicators TF was operating with dishonest 
intentions, and what Mr M has told us about his dealings with TF (such as the 
control it had over his account and the returns it promised), I consider it likely 
this was a scam.
Ive therefore considered whether Barclays ought to have realised that Mr M might be 
at risk from fraud. Id reasonably expect it to keep track of alerts issued by the FCA 
and IOSCO. As long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its 
consultation paper Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting 
perpetrators and protecting victimsthat it was good industry practice for firms to 
build up an updated watch-list of types of scams and potential perpetrators; and 
regularly share timely and detailed intelligence about this.
An IOSCO alert had been issued about TF around one year prior to Mr Ms payment. 
That doesnt prove TF was a scam, but I think it put Barclays on constructive notice 
that he might be at risk. So I think it ought to have looked into the payment further. 
If Barclays had asked suitably probing questions about the payment, Im persuaded it 
would have uncovered the scam and prevented Mr Ms loss. I think he would have 
been concerned to find out about the alert. Barclays could also have directed him to 
check if TF was regulated in the UK  and again, I think he would have been 
concerned that it wasnt. Ive also no reason to doubt that Mr M would have 
explained, if asked, that hed been directed to use remote access software, and 
about the returns he was expecting. If Barclays, speaking from a position of expertise 
about financial services and scams, had warned Mr M that it sounded like a scam, I 
dont think he would have proceeded with the payment. So Im satisfied Barclays can 
be held liable for the loss Mr M has suffered.
Ive also considered contributory negligence. Mr M previously said he didnt receive a 
£250 withdrawal request in 2017. Hes since clarified that he did  it just went to 
another account. At the time, this helped convince him TF was genuine. As a 
layperson who had an ongoing relationship with TF, I dont think Mr M reasonably 
foresaw the risk this was a scam. So I dont think hes partly to blame. 
But for Barclays error, the payment likely wouldnt have been made. So I dont need 
to consider whether the funds should have been recovered.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank 
UK PLC should refund Mr Ms £2,000 payment to Tradefintech.com. It should also pay 8% 
simple interest per year on this amount from the date of loss to the date of settlement. And it 
should put his credit card account in the position it would have been in had the disputed transaction not taken place (including refunding all interest, fees and charges applied as a 
result of the disputed payment).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman