DRN-3743080
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr W complain U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has caused them financial difficulty 
because it stopped paying a disturbance/food allowance for their family following a claim on 
their home insurance policy.
Mr W has primarily dealt with the claim and complaint, so Ill refer to him only.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Following a claim for a leak, Mr W and his family were left with no cooking facilities. UKI 
agreed to pay a disturbance/food allowance of £700 a week and this was approved for four 
weeks and started on 12 October 2020. However, this was reviewed again at the end of 
October 2020 when the contractors confirmed to UKI that 90% of the works were completed 
and they were waiting for Mr W to make the material choice for the worktop.
Mr W disagreed that the work was 90% completed and it wasnt him causing a delay. UKI 
recognised that Mr W still couldnt make use of his kitchen, so it agreed the allowance would 
be paid for a further week. At this time UKI also calculated a cash settlement offer for the 
worktop and the remainder of the repairs, but Mr W didnt accept it. 
In late October 2020, Mr W confirmed he wanted to upgrade the worktop to granite/quartz. 
The contractors were uncomfortable fitting this onto Mr Ws old kitchen carcasses as it 
wasnt sure they would be able to support the weight. It recommended Mr W seek a 
specialist to check and install it. The dispute about the worktop continued, but the 
disturbance/food allowance continued to be paid. 
In December 2020, following further problems with refitting Mr Ws old kitchen, UKI agreed to 
replace the kitchen on a like for like basis excluding appliances. It made this offer as a cash 
settlement and said it would stop the £700 a week allowance and change over to the use of 
a kitchen pod. Mr W wasnt happy with having a pod as he felt it would be too cold and when 
he had suggested this earlier in the claim it wasnt offered. He wanted UKI to still do the 
works, UKI then said it would replace the kitchen like for like but it still wouldnt agree to the 
granite worktop, and it would reduce the weekly payment unless Mr W could provide receipts 
to show the higher payment was necessary. But just a few days later Mr W called UKI 
advising he hadnt received his allowance. The reduction discussed wasnt implemented and 
UKI continued to pay the original rate of £700 a week.
In January 2021 Mr W raised concerns about the contractors returning to his property due to 
Covid-19. UKI suggested it could block off the internal areas and its contractors would enter 
and exit via the garage and side door. But Mr W said this wasnt possible as the garage was 
full of business stock. UKI offered to remove and store some of the stock, but this wasnt 
suitable. UKI offered a serviced apartment. But Mr W refused this and asked for the claim to 
be put on hold due to the risk of Covid-19 to him and his family. UKI continued making the 
weekly £700 payments.
In early June 2021 a UKI senior case handler took over and reviewed the case. It reduced 
the allowance to £350 and offered a cash settlement to progress the claim as it said it was 
unfair to continue to make the disturbance payments without evidence of the expenditure. Mr 
W felt this was unfair that he was being asked to produce this evidence and that he was 
probably paying more anyway. 
Mr W says he was following government guidance and didnt want the contractor to return. 
UKI made the decision to offer a revised cash settlement for Mr W to complete the works. 
The payment also included the cost of a kitchen pod for 10 weeks to allow him time to get 
the work done. It also said If Mr W remained unhappy with the settlement to obtain his own 
quotes and it would be happy to review them. 
Mr W made a complaint that the full allowance had been reduced and stopped unfairly. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed so the complaint has been 
passed to me, an Ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision will only consider the events that are covered by UKIs final response letter 
dated 23 July 2021. It wont be covering any of the issues from the previous final response 
dated 11 December 2020 as this has already been dealt with under a previous complaint 
brought to this service. 
The crux of this complaint is that Mr W thinks that his disturbance/food allowance was 
unfairly reduced and stopped and should be reinstated.
Mr Ws submissions are considerable on this complaint. Within this decision I wont be 
responding in similar detail. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service. My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the 
complaint to be which means I will only comment on those things I consider relevant to the 
decision I need to make. 
I can see initially UKI thought this claim wouldnt take too long to resolve, so the disturbance 
allowance was agreed as Mr W didnt have a working kitchen.
Despite some back and forth about the allowance across the life of the claim, UKI agreed to 
pay this weekly £700 sum between 12 October 2020 and 25 May 2021. Im satisfied UKI 
was fair to continue paying this sum across this time.
By December 2020 things had moved on and it became apparent that a new kitchen would 
need to be installed and so the old kitchen needs to be stripped out again. However, in early 
January 2021 Mr W was concerned about Covid-19 and he asked for the work to be paused. 
I can see UKI continued to make the payments for several more months even though it had 
made suggestions on how it could continue to complete the works and protect Mr Ws family 
before it made the cash payment. 
In early June 2021, UKI requested evidence of expenditure or said it would reduce the 
disturbance allowance to £350. Mr W feels it was unfair for it to do this.However, disturbance allowance is only paid when the customer can prove the extra costs 
theyve incurred whilst the claim is ongoing. But in this case, as Mr W wasnt happy with 
either a cash settlement or allowing the contractors into his home, the claim was at a 
stalemate. This meant that the claim couldnt be moved on. I can see UKI had informed Mr 
W back in December 2020 that it intended to reduce the allowance, and this wasnt done 
until June 2021. Im satisfied that UKI had forewarned Mr W and he had the opportunity to 
provide the evidence it required to pay the higher amount. As of July 2021, the payments 
were stopped. Im satisfied it wasnt fair for UKI to continue making these payments as it 
wasnt it that was preventing the claim moving forward. 
Mr W disagreed with UKIs decision to cash settle the matter, so Ive looked at the policys 
terms to consider if this was fair. Under section E If you claim it says it will settle claims:
If the buildings are damaged by any of the causes listed in [Section 1], we will either:
  repair or rebuild the damaged part using our suppliers
  pay to repair or rebuild the damaged part using your suppliers
  make a cash payment
So, its clear to me that UKIs terms and conditions allows it to choose what option it uses, 
and it chose to make a cash payment. 
Ive gone on to think about whether the use of that cash settlement was fair in the 
circumstances. 
I can understand Mr W was concerned for his familys safety during Covid-19. But Im 
satisfied that UKI gave fair and reasonable options to move the claim forward which is what 
Id expect it to do. And as Mr W was still not allowing access to the property or accepting the 
cash settlement it was therefore not viable for the disturbance allowance to continue. 
I was pleased to see the settlement included a cash settlement for the cost of a kitchen pod 
for 10 weeks to enable Mr W to get the works completed by the builders he chooses to use. 
Im satisfied that this is a fair and reasonable way to move the claim forward. 
I understand Mr W isnt happy with the amount offered but I can see that UKI also said it 
would consider Mr Ws quotes if he couldnt get the work completed for the cost offered. Im 
satisfied these options were fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. So, I 
wont be asking UKI to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman