DRN-1913472
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that a new motor car he acquired under a hire-purchase agreement from 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (trading as Alphera Financial Services) (Alphera) 
was not of satisfactory quality, contrary to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). He wants 
to reject it.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr P entered into a hire-purchase agreement with Alphera for a new sports car. 
The cash price of the car was £82,000. Mr P paid an advance payment of £7,000, and 
agreed to pay the balance, plus finance charges, by 48 monthly repayments of £890.50 each 
and an optional final repayment of £46,623.92.
Mr P took delivery of the car from the supplying dealer (SD) on 10 May 2019 which, for the 
purposes of the CRA Ill call the start date. However, Mr P immediately began to notice 
excessive squeaking noises from the roof and the exhaust.
Mr P notified SD. With its permission the car was taken to a repairer for this make of car 
closer to Mr Ps home. It attempted repairs, but these were unsuccessful. On 7 June 2019, 
Mr P notified SD that he wished to reject the car.
He said that in a new car costing over £80,000 the faults meant it was of unsatisfactory 
quality. As these had appeared within 30 days of the start date, he was entitled under the 
CRA to reject the car within this period.
SD and the repairer continued to try to repair the car, although Mr P made it clear that he 
wanted to reject the car and wasnt authorising further repair attempts. SD said the minor 
faults didnt mean the car was of unsatisfactory quality or unfit for purpose under the CRA.
Mr P then complained formally to Alphera. It said when he took the car to SD it tightened 
some components to rectify the squeaks, and as it was a hand built track car, these issues 
were not uncommon and were to be expected. It rejected his complaint. So Mr P complained 
to us.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He thought when Mr P 
said within 30 days of the start date that he wanted to reject the car because of its faults, this 
should have been accepted. This was a luxury vehicle that Mr P was paying a substantial 
amount for. The fact that it suffered a number of minor faults within a short period would 
raise questions about its durability.
In November 2019, the investigator recommended that Alphera should:
end the hire-purchase agreement with Mr P having nothing further to pay;refund three monthly payments, as Mr P had only covered 2,000 miles (25% of the 
agreed mileage under the agreement);
collect the car at no further cost to Mr P;
refund the advance payment of £7,000 and pay 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment until settlement; and
remove any adverse information from Mr Ps credit file.
 
Alphera didnt accept the investigators recommendation. It said:
the car had some squeaks on it which were not out of the ordinary for this sort of 
vehicle  they were hand built track cars;
SD had tightened a few components in an attempt to appease Mr P;
no faults had been found on the car, and if there was a fault it was allowed an 
opportunity to repair it;
Mr P was outside 30 days from the start date when he raised the faults with Alphera; 
and
the car was completely fit for purpose.
 
In response, Mr P said Alphera was made aware of his rejection at the same time as SD, 
and within 30 days from the start date. He only received an automated response from 
Alphera to this notification.
He also produced advertising material from the manufacturer of the car showing that the 
particular model he acquired was intended for road use. He said it was wrong to say no 
faults were found - his phone calls with SD and the repairer showed otherwise.
Since the investigators recommendation, Mr P said the car had suffered further faults. At the 
beginning of February 2020, the car had to be recovered by a breakdown service which 
advised there were multiple faults, and it shouldnt be driven until these had been 
investigated. So Mr P hadnt used it since then.
Mr P also said that when the car was supplied, SD applied a full frontal sills and rear arches 
paint protection to the car at a cost of £1,078.80. He provided a copy invoice for this. He 
asked that this also be refunded to him.
My provisional findings 
I issued my provisional view to Mr P and to Alphera on 21 May 2020. In it I said that, like the 
investigator, I found that:
the car as supplied by Alphera to Mr P had faults which became immediately 
apparent;
in a car of this price and quality, these faults meant that the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality, and unfit for purpose, contrary to the requirements of the CRA. I didnt accept 
Alpheras suggestion that this was a track car and faults of this nature were to be 
expected in it;
although SD was given the opportunity to carry out repairs, these were ineffective; 
and
the faults became apparent within 30 days of the start date. So under the CRA Mr P 
was entitled to reject the car. He did so by notifying both SD and Alphera within 30 
days of the start date.
 I agreed that Alphera should have accepted Mr Ps rejection when it was made, and that he 
should be entitled to reject the car now, and be further compensated as set out in my 
provisional decision and in my final decision below.
In reaching my decision, I accepted Mr Ps evidence that he hadnt used the car since the 
beginning of February 2020. In the circumstances I didnt think it was fair and reasonable 
that Mr P should pay Alphera anything more under the hire-purchase agreement than the 
investigator proposed in November 2019, given his limited use of the car since then.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mr P and Alphera responded to say that they accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr P nor Alphera has provided any fresh information or evidence in response to 
my provisional decision, I find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions
Putting things right
I think Alphera should pay the money, and take the other steps, as set out in my final 
decision below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
(trading as Alphera Financial Services) to;                                                             
1. treat the hire-purchase agreement as at an end as from the date Mr P accepts this 
final decision, with Mr P having nothing further to pay under the agreement or any of 
its provisions;
2. refund all monthly payments collected since the investigator issued his 
recommendation on 4 November 2019, and a further three monthly payments as 
suggested in that recommendation;
3. collect the car at no further cost to Mr P and at a time convenient to him;
4. refund to Mr P the advance payment of £7,000;
5. pay Mr P £1,078.80 in respect of the paint protection treatment he paid for;
6. remove any adverse credit information in respect of the hire-purchase agreement 
from Mr Ps credit file; and
7. pay Mr P yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple on the items in 4. and 5. above from 
the respective dates of payment by Mr P until settlement. (1)
 
(1)  If Alphera considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Lennox TowersOmbudsman