DRN-1950750
The complaint
Mrs B complains that HSBC Bank Plc mis-sold her a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2000 when she applied for a credit card on a postal 
application form.
 
What happened
Mrs B complained to this Service. She said she assumed she had to have PPI attached to 
the credit card in January 2000; and no-one explained her right to cancel.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld because it wasnt clear that HSBC 
had told her the PPI policy was a separate and optional product. 
HSBC disagreed with the adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
HSBC added Mrs B would have said yes to the PPI by marking an optional tick box before it 
was added to her account; so HSBC says it was clear Mrs B knew about the policy; she 
would have received a brochure giving her the essential features of the policy; and the PPI 
payments appeared on her statements.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case. 
Ive decided to uphold her complaint for the reasons Ill set out below.
 
HSBC says because the sale is so old, it doesnt have the complete paper work for this 
particular sale. And it cant say how the policy was sold or if it advised Mrs B  and Im not 
surprised by any of that because the PPI was sold some time ago in January 2000. From 
Mrs Bs evidence, she says it wasnt clear to her that she didnt have to have the PPI with 
the credit card. She didnt give me any more detail about the documents she may have seen 
on the day she filled in her application form. But she said she didnt get any advice about her 
right to cancel  I accept this is the most likely situation because she says the PPI was sold 
to her on a postal application form.
 
I then looked at the documents Ive been given to see what is most likely to have happened. 
Ive seen a document from around the date of the sale. Its a sample of a credit agreement  
which HSBC said wouldve been used in a branch sale during January 2000.
 
I have also seen sample credit agreements from November 1999 and February 2000 and 
they both have a separate place for the consumer to sign for PPI which shows it was a 
separate product. 
The sample form which HSBC says Mrs B is likely to have seen in January does not have a 
separate place for her to sign for PPI. So I dont think its clear from the January 2000 
sample form Ive seen that Mrs B was aware that PPI was separate and optional. So I think 
there is a failing in this sale.
 
HSBC said the PPI wouldnt have been added to a consumers account unless that person 
had chosen PPI. And, although I accept Mrs B must have signed her credit card application 
form at some stage, Im afraid I simply dont have enough evidence to show that she actively 
selected for PPI in this sale.
 
I also accept HSBCs point that Mrs B wouldve received credit card statements showing her 
monthly PPI premiums. But this fact doesnt actually evidence what information she was 
given about the policy being optional in January 2000 when she bought the PPI - so Im not 
going to rely on it.
 
Taking everything into account, Im not satisfied that HSBC did enough to show the policy 
was a separate and optional product in a clear and balanced way. So I dont think HSBC 
made it clear enough to Mrs B that the policy was optional. I think this is a very basic 
requirement of a sale  and I think this is a strong enough reason to uphold the complaint  
so I dont need to consider any other grounds.
 
Putting things right
I think there is a failing in the sale and I think HSBC Bank should put things right for Mrs B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I make the following award against 
HSBC Bank Plc. 
Mrs B tells me the PPI ended with her credit card so HSBC Bank Plc should put Mrs B in the 
financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
 
A. HSBC Bank Plc should find out how much Mrs B would have owed when she 
closed her credit card account if the policy hadnt been added. So, it should remove 
the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It 
should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges. HSBC Bank Plc should then refund the 
difference between what Mrs B owed when she closed her account and what she 
would have owed if she hadnt had PPI. If Mrs B made a successful claim or received 
any payment for high commission under the PPI policy, HSBC Bank Plc can take off 
what she got for the claim and/or for the commission from the amount it owes her. 
B. HSBC Bank Plc should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs B 
would have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she 
gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.  
C. If  when HSBC Bank Plc works out what Mrs B would have owed each month 
without PPI  Mrs B paid more than enough to clear her balance, HSBC Bank Plc 
should also pay simple interest on the extra Mrs B paid. And it should carry on paying 
interest until the point when Mrs B wouldve owed HSBC Bank Plc something on her 
credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.  D. HSBC Bank Plc should tell Mrs B what its done to work out A, B and C. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC Bank Plc to take off tax from this interest. HSBC 
Bank Plc must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman