DRN-2833860
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Debt Managers (Services) Limited are chasing him for a debt 
which he feels they havent proved he owes them.
What happened
This complaint is about a regulated personal credit agreement which was sold to Debt 
Managers in 2019.
There was a payment plan in place, which Mr D initially kept up with. Then in 2020, he asked 
Debt Managers for proof he owed them the money.
Debt Managers sent Mr D a copy of the credit agreement and the notice of assignment, but 
he wanted the deed of assignment and the original of his signed agreement. He felt that 
without this, Debt Managers were not entitled to chase him for the debt and so were 
harassing him. He asked for the debt to be written off or passed back to the original creditor.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They were 
satisfied this was Mr Ds genuine debt, which had been sold to Debt Managers, and so it 
was fair for Debt Managers to contact him about it.
Mr D didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Mr D would want to make sure he really did owe the money to Debt 
Managers  he wouldnt want to pay the wrong people.
Ive looked carefully at the evidence here, including the copy of Mr Ds credit agreement with 
the terms of his account, and the notice of assignment  where the original lender confirmed 
theyd sold Mr Ds account to Debt Managers. I can see the account references match. 
Further, when Mr D came to our service he told us hed had this account with the original 
creditor, so he himself has acknowledged this is his account. He also made a number of 
payments towards the debt, which he probably wouldnt have done if he didnt recognise it 
as his. Ive certainly not seen any evidence which shows this is not Mr Ds debt. I think it is 
his  and so I think its fair for Debt Managers to contact him about it.
I appreciate that Mr D wanted the original of his credit agreement, with his signature on it. 
But Debt Managers didnt have to provide the original signed version, only a true copy of the 
agreement  which is what theyve done here.
Debt Managers also sent the relevant notice of assignment, which I think was enough to 
show that they now owned the account. Its not clear why Mr D would also like the deed of 
assignment, which is a private document between Debt Managers and the original creditor. 
The deed would contain commercially sensitive information, but would not contain anything 
that Mr D needs to see, and Debt Managers were not required to give that document to him. 
So I think its reasonable that they havent.
Amongst his correspondence, Mr D made some arguments about the enforceability of this 
debt. Whether or not the debt is legally enforceable is something for a court to decide  
I dont have the power to determine that. With that said, I am aware that there are websites 
and forums which make big promises about clearing debts using obscure legal arguments. 
Just in case Mr D has been relying on those, I would warn that if something seems too good 
to be true, it usually is. Id strongly recommend seeking legal advice from a properly qualified 
and verified person before attempting to use those same kinds of arguments in a court.
Ive looked at Debt Managers communication, and I dont think theyve corresponded with 
Mr D excessively or unreasonably so far. Theyve been clear that theyre happy to work 
around Mr Ds circumstances and that they only want him to make repayments that are 
affordable and realistic for him. Theyve also been happy to put things on hold while dealing 
with Mr Ds queries. I think theyve acted reasonably, and I think its fair for Debt Managers 
to ask Mr D to repay the debt he now owes them.
I hope I can assure Mr D that its quite normal for debts to be sold on like this, and Debt 
Managers still have to deal with him fairly. As theyve told him, his repayments should be 
based on what he can actually afford. Mr D may want to get back in touch with Debt 
Managers to see what assistance they can give him in repaying the account. Ill also send 
Mr D the details for charities who can give free advice and help about dealing with ones 
debts. And Mr D can always get back in touch with us as a separate case if he subsequently 
feels that Debt Managers arent taking account of his situation.
But as things stand, I cant see that Debt Managers have done anything substantially wrong 
in this case, and I think its reasonable that theyve asked Mr D to repay the debt he owes.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021. 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman