DRN-3416870
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy American International Group UK Limited (AIG) declined a claim on his 
insurance. 
What happened
Mr K had a personal accident insurance policy underwritten by AIG taken out in 1992. In 
2011 he had an accident. Unfortunately he fractured his skull and suffered partial loss of 
hearing in his left ear, amongst other injuries. Mr K says his left eye was treated for trauma 
just after the accident, but the doctors didnt advise him of any further long-term treatment.  
In 2018 Mr K made a claim on his policy for his fractured skull and loss of hearing. This claim 
was covered by AIG.  
Mr K says there was no obvious long-term damage to his left eye either after the accident or 
in the intervening years up to 2018 when he made his claim  which is why it wasnt 
originally included. Then in November 2019 Mr K was diagnosed with Glaucoma in his left 
eye and suffered 70% permanent loss of vision which required surgery to stabilise it in 
February 2020. 
Mr K says his consultant ophthalmic surgeon said the glaucoma and resulting loss of vision 
was as a direct result of the 2011 accident and associated trauma to his left eye. So Mr K 
submitted a further claim on his accident policy for loss of vision. 
AIG declined the claim because they didnt agree the injury occurred solely and 
independently of any other cause and within 12 months of the date of the accident. 
Mr K said he couldnt prove how much vision was lost within the first 12 months of the 
accident because he wasnt aware until 2019 that he had lost the vision in his eye. And AIG 
couldnt prove that his loss of vision didnt begin within the first 12 months of the accident. So 
he made an offer to AIG to accept a claim based on 8.75% loss of vision in the first year 
since the accident - calculated by working on the assumption of a 70% loss of vision over the 
8 years from 2011. 
AIG didnt agree to settle the matter in line with Mr Ks suggestion, so he referred the matter 
to this service. Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought AIG had been 
fair to decline the claim because there wasnt enough evidence to show Mr Ks loss of vision 
occurred within a year of the accident. 
Mr S didnt agree. In summary he said:
He suffered life changing injuries as a result of an accident in 2011 whilst he was and 
still is covered by the AIG policy. 
At the time of the accident the injuries to his left eye were recorded and treated.
Any natural development of the disease was ruled out by his consultant due to his 
right eye being completely unaffected. 
AIG have not challenged that the accident was the cause of the sight loss. Theyve 
just said the 12 month clause in the policy is the reason his claim was declined. 
He appreciates his claim is unusual due to the nature of the injury and the time 
involved for symptoms, so he wanted to repeat his earlier offer to reach a 
compromise with AIG on a settlement. 
So the case has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say AIG have a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Mr Ks policy offers the following cover:
If you have an accident on or after the effective date and before your insurance
finishes, which results in you suffering a bodily injury which solely and independently of
any other cause and within 12 months of the date of the accident, causes death,
permanent disability or single or multiple fractures, we will pay the amount shown in
the table of benefits.
Bodily injury is defined as:
An identifiable physical injury to an insured persons body which is caused directly and
solely by an accident, is not intentionally self-inflicted and does not result from sickness
or disease.
This means for a successful claim, it must be shown that the injury sustained in the accident 
cause a permeant disability within 12 months of the date of the accident. Its important to 
note that its for Mr K to demonstrate that he meets that definition. 
Having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied that AIG have acted fairly and its not 
unreasonable for them to reject Mr Ks claim. I say that because:
Its clear Mr K suffered serious injuries as a result of his accident in 2011. His policy 
was in place at the time of both the accident and his claim. But the terms of the policy 
state he must also prove that the disability he is claiming for arose within 12 months 
of the date of the accident and the injuries he received. 
Mr K has provided a report from his treating consultant ophthalmologist from 2019. 
He says my impression of a diagnosis here was chronic angle closure glaucoma to 
the left eye the cause of which I suspect may be from inflammation and subsequent 
angle closure secondary to his injury many years earlier But he also says however, 
as I had not seen Mr K before it would not be possible for me to say that this is the 
definitive cause. I also note he says that although he suspects that the accident in 
2011 was responsible for Mr Ks disability, as he had not examined him until 9 years 
after the event it would be difficult to be sure of this. So Im not persuaded this 
opinion is enough prove Mr Ks loss of vision arose during the first 12 months from 
the accident. Mr K has highlighted that the injuries to his left eye were recorded in 2011. I dont 
dispute this - the medical evidence from around the time of the accident does says 
Mr K was diagnosed with delayed onset left facial palsy which caused problems with 
closing his left eye. However, by 7 months after the accident the evidence shows Mr 
Ks facial function was back to normal. So I dont think this evidence is enough to 
demonstrate Mr Ks loss of vision started within the first 12 months after the accident. 
I note there havent been any problems identified with the vision on Mr Ks right eye. 
He says this rules out the possibility of any natural development of glaucoma. Whilst I 
agree this adds strength to his belief the issues in his left eye must stem from the 
accident. It doesnt automatically follow that this means Mr Ks claim is covered. He 
would still need to prove his loss of vision arose within 12 months of the accident  
which I dont think he has. And in any event, Im mindful that Mr K may unfortunately 
still develop glaucoma in his right eye at a later date, so overall Im not persuaded by 
this point. 
Based on the evidence provided, the first mention of any issues relating to Mr Ks 
vision arent until the emergency referral in November 2019, which is over eight years 
after the accident. So overall I dont think it was unreasonable for AIG to conclude 
there isnt enough medical evidence to show Mr Ks injury arose within 12 months of 
the accident in 2011. I appreciate glaucoma can occur before a patient becomes 
aware of it due to a lack of symptoms. But there just isnt enough evidence here to 
support that Mr Ks disability most likely began within 12 months of his accident.  
Mr K says AIG were unable to prove that he didnt suffer any loss to his vision in the 
12 months following his accident. But the burden of proof is not on the insurer to 
disprove Mr Ks claim. 
I can see Mr K made an offer to AIG to accept a claim based on 8.75% loss of vision 
in the first year since the accident. I can see why he thinks this offer is fair in the 
circumstances as neither party can prove when the loss of vision started and at what 
rate. But based on the medical evidence, I dont think its unreasonable AIG said 
there isnt enough to demonstrate Mr Ks loss of vision most likely began in the first 
12 months after his accident. So I think its fair AIG havent agreed to engage with 
this settlement. 
Im satisfied AIG have acted in line with their terms and conditions and it was reasonable for 
them to decline this claim based on the available evidence. I know this will be disappointing 
to Mr K but unfortunately there just isnt enough evidence to show his loss of vision is 
covered by this policy.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman