DRN-3331080
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the suitability of the advice provided by Sound Financial 
Management Ltd (Sound Financial) in connection with buying a commercial property 
through a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says that the advice was unsuitable 
and led to him suffering a financial loss.
Mr H is represented in this complaint by a third party (Representative).
What happened
In 2014, Mr H worked as a chef in his family-run hotel business. Above the hotel was a flat. 
Attached to the hotel was a property which was formerly a pub. The property was in a 
derelict state of repair and required renovation. The flat, property and business interests 
were owned by Mr Hs father. 
Mr H was interested in buying the flat and property. He wanted to let the flat to generate 
rental income and renovate the property with a view to re-opening it as a pub. Mr H initially 
sought advice from a commercial lending broker to explore funding options. This led to him 
being introduced to Sound Financial to obtain advice about potentially using money in his 
personal pension plan towards achieving his objective.
In July 2014, a representative of Sound Financial met Mr H and his family. Sound Financial 
recorded details about Mr Hs circumstances and objectives at that time. These can be 
summarised as follows:
He was 44, single and in good health;
He was a self-employed chef in the family-run business earning £5,000 per year. In 
addition to his earned income, he also received rental income of £4,800 per year. It 
was noted that he had very few outgoings as most of his living costs were covered by 
the family-run business;
His residential home was valued at £120,000 and was encumbered with a mortgage 
of about £84,000. He didnt have any other debts or liabilities;
He had cash deposits of £10,000;
He had a personal pension plan valued at £56,300;
He had a Medium High/Assertive risk profile which was defined as If you are an 
assertive investor, you are prepared to accept higher volatility and moderate risks, 
and you are comfortable with some fluctuations in the short term. You require a 
balanced portfolio, but more aggressive investments may be included; and
The flat was in the process of being transferred to a separate legal title, following 
which Mr H intended to use some of his cash deposits and a mortgage to buy it from 
his father. But he didnt want to commit any further cash or raise further borrowing to 
buy the property. Instead, he felt that the money in his personal pension plan would 
be put to better use to buy it. This would enable him to start a new business venture 
in the hospitality sector which he worked in and understood, keep control of the 
property within the family and also enable his father to benefit from the sale proceeds 
to assist in his retirement. The purchase price of the property was agreed as £50,000 
plus VAT.
On 15 July 2014, Sound Financial issued its suitability report to Mr H. It recommended that 
he switch the value of his personal pension plan into a new SIPP. It stated that the SIPP was 
a suitable vehicle to allow him to use his pension fund to facilitate the purchase of the 
property. It was noted that once the switch from the personal pension plan had been 
completed, insufficient money would be held in the SIPP to cover the full cost of the 
purchase including VAT and fees. However, it was stated that Mr H was prepared to use his 
cash deposits and to make a loan to the SIPP on commercial terms to cover this. The 
suitability report confirmed that this course of action would enable Mr H to achieve his 
objective of buying the property without the need for a mortgage. The plan was for the 
property to be let on a 999-year lease to the SIPP by Mr Hs father.
In November 2014, the personal pension plan fund value of £54,062.81 was paid to the 
SIPP. The purchase was completed in December 2016. Mr H started the planned renovation 
work, but this wasnt completed due to personal reasons including ill-health in his family. 
This complaint
In July 2020, the Representative, on behalf of Mr H, complained to Sound Financial about 
the suitability of the advice it provided to him in July 2014. In summary, it said that Mr H was 
an inexperienced investor with a conservative risk profile. As such, it thought that the advice 
to switch from Mr Hs existing personal pension plan to the SIPP and to then invest in a 
single commercial property was unsuitable because it exposed his pension fund to more risk 
than he was willing and able to tolerate.
Sound Financial didnt uphold this complaint. It explained that Mr H had already decided to 
buy the property before he was introduced to it. It said it had warned him about the risk of a 
SIPP owning a single commercial property and told him of the additional risks and costs 
involved in maintaining it. It also said that following the pension switch, it couldnt be held 
responsible for the success or failure of Mr Hs business venture.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. This was because 
she didnt think that Sound Financial had acted unreasonably or unfairly so she said that she 
wouldnt be asking it to do anything further.
The Representative didnt accept our investigators opinion and provided additional 
comments. Our investigator considered the additional comments but wasnt persuaded to 
change her opinion. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred 
to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
I understand that Hs father recently passed away. Before going any further, Id like to offer 
my sincere condolences to Mr H and his family.
Ive considered all the evidence afresh including the Representatives initial complaint letter, 
Sound Financials final response letter and our investigators assessment. Id like to make 
clear that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single point raised 
by the parties. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome. Having considered the evidence, I agree with the 
outcome recommended by our investigator for these reasons:
The evidence shows that, before meeting Sound Financial, Mr H had already decided 
to use the money in his personal pension plan towards the cost of buying the 
property. Mr H, his father and brother attended meetings with Sound Financial. Its 
clear that they wanted to keep ownership of the property within the family while 
releasing capital to enable Mr Hs father, who was then aged 68 and in poor health, 
to retire. This is confirmed in meeting notes and the suitability report issued to Mr H. 
Theres no contemporaneous evidence that Mr H disagreed with what was recorded 
at the time. Mr H has since disputed what was recorded but I dont have any reason 
to doubt the veracity of Sound Financials records;
The scope of Sound Financials advice was limited to arranging a switch from                 
Mr Hs personal pension plan to the SIPP to facilitate buying the property. Sound 
Financial didnt advise Mr H (or his family) to buy the property or to embark on the 
business venture. Furthermore, it wasnt involved in the subsequent property 
purchase or renovation works. The evidence shows that Mr H relied on legal support 
and advice to assist with the property purchase which wasnt completed until 
December 2016, some two years after the personal pension plan switch to the SIPP;
The suitability report stated in clear language the features, risks and benefits of using 
a SIPP to purchase commercial property. The highlighted risks included specific 
reference to the costs associated with owning commercial property and the illiquid 
nature of this type of asset. Ive not seen any evidence that Sound Financial provided 
incorrect or misleading information to Mr H;
The pension switch led to Mr H incurring extra costs. But Im satisfied that this was 
with good reason because the switch to the SIPP enabled him to achieve his 
objective of purchasing a commercial property using his existing pension fund. I 
recognise that the SIPP and underlying costs were more expensive than Mr Hs 
existing personal pension plan or an alternative stakeholder pension. But it wasnt 
possible for Mr H to purchase a commercial property through those alternative 
pension plans. Furthermore, Ive not seen any evidence that the switch away from 
the personal pension plan led to the loss of benefits or guarantees. There was a 
need for ongoing advice. I can see that Sound Financial explained why ongoing 
advice was required and put this in place at an annual cost of £500 to be paid by          
Mr H; 
I acknowledge that investing the entire SIPP fund value in a single commercial 
property was a high-risk venture and that Mr H appeared to have limited capacity for 
loss if things went wrong. While Im not convinced Mr Hs background and 
circumstances support Sound Financials assessment of his Medium High/Assertive 
risk profile, overall, I dont think this is sufficient reason to uphold this complaint 
bearing in mind I think he wouldve gone ahead with this transaction regardless, for the reasons stated below;
Mr H says he was Sound Financials client and that his family situation was separate 
to the transaction. I acknowledge this. However, it appears that the purchase of the 
property was linked to several other transactions taking place around the same time 
to enable Mr Hs father to retire while retaining business interests within the family. I 
think this is very relevant. The evidence shows that Mr H didnt want to borrow 
money to fund the purchase of the property and was intent on using the money in his 
personal pension plan to achieve his objective. If he didnt go ahead with the switch 
to the SIPP and subsequent property purchase, it wouldve affected those other 
transactions. So I think its likely that even if Sound Financial advised against it, Mr H 
wouldve sought advice from another business to ultimately achieve the same 
outcome; and
While Im sorry to hear that the business venture didnt work out as Mr H had 
intended, this isnt the fault or responsibility of Sound Financial. Mr H purchased the 
property and leasehold interest for £5,000 in 2021. As a result, the SIPP no longer 
owns the property.
In conclusion, I dont think Sound Financial did anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly. For 
the reasons explained, I dont think it provided unsuitable advice. Because of this, I dont 
consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Sound 
Financial to pay compensation to Mr H  or to take any further action in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman