DRN-4111809
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Ltd (VM) has not facilitated her 
transferring her pension fund to a different provider.  
Mrs Hs husband made an identical complaint to VM about his contact with it. But Ive 
omitted references in this decision to any plan held by Mr H with VM, as the complaints he 
has made about VM are being dealt with separately. And, for ease, I will mostly refer to any 
actions and comments as those of Mrs H.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill just provide an overview of 
relevant key events here. 
Mrs H had a personal pension plan (PPP) with VM. Mrs H phoned VM at the end of October 
2021 to discuss her PPP but was unable to get through. She made a complaint to VM. 
Mrs H emailed VM on 19 November 2021 as she hadnt received a response to the 
complaint she made in October 2021. She said she wanted to transfer her pension fund from 
VM to a different pension provider and asked for transfer paperwork to be sent to her. Mrs H 
again contacted VM on 24 and 30 November 2021 chasing the transfer paperwork. 
Mr H phoned VM on 9 December 2021 and explained that he had already asked for transfer 
paperwork by post, but these hadnt been received. The VM adviser apologised and told him 
the transfer paperwork would be sent out. VM posted the pension transfer forms to Mr H, but 
not Mrs H, on the same day. These included a Transfer Out Request form and a Transfer 
Out Warranty.  
Mr H phoned VM on 2 February 2022 but its computer systems werent working as 
maintenance work was being carried out. 
Mrs H complained to this Service in February 2022. She raised a number of complaint 
points, and those relevant to the transfer of her PPP to another provider are listed below. 
Mrs H said that: 
   
VMs operating systems were down on one occasion when it was contacted by 
phone.  
VM provided conflicting information about whether Mrs H should send completed 
transfer forms to VM or the new provider.  
VM wouldnt accept email requests to transfer funds as a wet signature was needed.
VM couldnt guarantee how long the transfer process would take by post, and the 
value of the fund wouldnt be known when a request was made. 
VM didnt provide cash accounts to hold funds while the transfer took place.
Mrs H said her pension funds devalued considerably while she waited for VM to 
contact her and she lost out on a transfer incentive from another pension provider.
Other complaint points Mrs H brought to this Service in February 2022, about the difficulties 
she had trying to contact VM to arrange an internal fund switch, have been dealt with 
separately. The complaint points, listed above, that Mrs H brought to this Service in February 
2022 about the external transfer process hadnt previously been raised with VM. This meant 
VM hadnt been given an opportunity to respond to these points. So Mrs H was asked to 
raise her complaint about the external transfer process with VM before this Service would 
look into the various complaint points raised. 
So Mrs H, jointly with her husband, contacted VM in January 2023. She raised several 
complaint points and posed several questions, which were: 
 
VM should have allowed pension transfers to be made using the Origo system. 
VM hadnt responded to a question about whether it accepted signed letters giving 
instructions to transfer funds.   
Mrs H said VM should follow her instructions  she didnt want to rely on the postal 
system  about how her pension funds should be transferred. 
Mrs H asked whether VM would withhold funds indefinitely if the transfer paperwork 
wasnt completed. 
Mrs H wanted VM to allow more than one transfer out of her pension fund. 
Mrs H asked whether the fund transfer value was calculated on the day instructions 
were received by VM or a date in the future. 
Mrs H thought the plan terms, specifically section 16b, showed her funds should be 
held in a cash account once she provided transfer instructions. 
VM didnt respond directly to Mrs H and only provided a response to her husband in relation 
to the complaint. Its response said: 
It was not registered for electronic transfer services, although this may change in the 
future. 
In order for Mr H to begin the transfer process, a Request for Transfer of Benefits 
form needed to be completed and the new provider needed to complete a Transfer 
out Warranty form.
If the transfer paperwork was not completed funds would be held by VM indefinitely.
With regard to the calculation of the fund transfer value, VM pointed to the policy 
term that said Once we receive notification from your new pension provider, and 
both parties have all the information needed, well move your pension to them using 
the unit price on the transfer day.
VM later provided a second complaint response letter. This said:  
Clause 16b of the pension terms enabled VM to transfer pension funds to another 
HMRC registered scheme in certain limited circumstances. It said the clause didnt 
enable VM to transfer the pension funds themselves. The clause could be relied on in 
the event that VM intended to cease providing the VM stakeholder pension, or 
pensions in general.
Mrs H wrote to VM in mid-March 2023 and told it that it had responded only to her husband 
in relation to the complaint that they made jointly in January 2023. She said that she wanted 
VM to transfer her pension to a named provider, as per clause 16b of the terms and 
conditions. She requested a final response to her letter. 
Mrs H was in regular contact with this Service and said: Since she raised her complaint, her PPP has suffered a paper loss of around 
£30,000. 
She wanted to transfer her pension funds using the Origo system as this takes less 
time. 
The PPP terms indicated the pension funds should have been transferred, and she 
had a right to choose the method of transfer. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. She said VM did not need to complete a 
transfer based on the signed letter submitted by Mrs H, as it had a duty to safeguard its 
customers from scams and fraud. She said it was industry wide practice to complete and 
return certain forms, so that businesses could conduct necessary checks before the transfer 
was carried out. Our Investigator said VM had made it clear Mrs H could have transferred 
her pension, free of charge, at any time. She also thought VM had explained the transfer 
process clearly. 
Our Investigator said VM cant be compelled to use a particular electronic transfer system, 
and that Mrs Hs pension will remain invested until the day of transfer. She also said that 
term 16b of the plan terms and conditions, which Mrs H thought showed that VM should 
protect the value of her pension while the transfer was ongoing, was not relevant in these 
circumstances. 
Mrs H didnt agree with what our Investigator said and so this came to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 24 August 2023 and said that while I wanted to expand on 
the reasoning provided by our Investigator, I intended to come to the same conclusion and 
not uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I gave both parties the opportunity to respond. 
VM responded and said it had nothing further to add at that point. 
Mrs H responded to my provisional decision and didnt agree with the outcome. She made a 
number of comments. In summary, these are: 
Mrs H provided a copy of PPP terms which were different to those I relied on in my 
provisional decision.
Mrs H felt that VMs terms show it operates a cash account for consumers funds.
Mrs H forwarded a letter shed recently received from VM which said that VM would 
accept written instructions to transfer a pension to another provider. 
Mrs H also raised a number of new complaint points. 
I contacted VM and asked why the terms Mrs H recently forwarded to this Service were 
different to the terms I relied on in my provisional decision. VM responded and said the 
terms that say it will sell units when it is ready to complete the transfer reflect current terms, 
and were the terms in effect when Mrs H indicated her desire to transfer. VM went on to say 
that the terms provided by Mrs H, when she responded to my provisional decision, were 
much older terms that date from when products were sold under a different Virgin brand and 
have since been superseded many times. 
I also told VM that Mrs H said she received a letter from VM, dated 25 August 2023, which 
she said told her that VM would, in fact, accept written instructions to transfer a pension to 
another provider. 
VM responded and said the letter in question stated that VM does accept written and signed 
instructions. However it stated this does not mean its position has changed  it still needs all 
the required information, permissions and declarations submitted in writing. VM went on to say it provides transfer forms as they are the easiest, most efficient and 
robust means of seeking to transfer and are far more likely to achieve the customers 
transfer than any attempts at making the same via a white paper request. 
Having said that, VM said that if a consumer provided all the required information, 
permissions and declarations it and the other provider needed via a signed, white paper 
postal request, it would not decline that instruction for the sake of having the same 
information transposed to a form. It said Mrs Hs requests had so far fell far short of being 
acceptable and of providing the information and declarations it needed to start sharing her 
personal information with another provider, and of the information the other provider would 
need to assess the transfer and seek to accept it. 
I am now in a position to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs H didnt get a response to the complaint that she and her husband jointly 
raised with VM in January 2023  VM only responded to Mr H. Mrs H wrote to VM to let it 
know it hadnt responded to her, but still VM did not issue a final response to her complaint. 
Nonetheless, as more than eight weeks have passed since Mrs H raised her complaint, I will 
address the relevant complaint points raised by her in this decision. 
Mrs H has been in contact with this Service numerous times and has provided a great deal 
of testimony in relation to her complaint about the difficulties she said she has had trying to 
transfer her PPP to another provider. I want to assure Mrs H that I have read everything 
submitted by her, even if I dont refer to each and every point made. Instead Ill only address 
what I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome here, and this reflects 
the informal nature of this Service. 
Mrs H also raised a number of new complaint points against VM when she responded to my 
provisional decision. However I am not going to extend the scope of this decision and deal 
with all new issues raised. But this wont disadvantage Mrs H, as any new complaint points 
can be raised with us separately as and when Mrs H goes through the usual complaints 
process with VM and receives a final response from it. Our Investigator will continue to 
communicate with Mrs H about these new matters.  
The transfer process
The crux of Mrs Hs complaint is that she says she wants to transfer her pension funds from 
VM to another provider and thinks VM should have actioned her transfer request some time 
ago. 
The issue here is that VM has said Mrs H needs to complete and submit the relevant 
transfer paperwork before it will start the process of transferring her funds to another 
provider. Mrs H, however, thinks VM should accept a signed, written instruction from her 
without the need for her to complete transfer paperwork. Mrs H also thinks VM has provided 
contradictory information about what steps she needs to take to start the transfer process. 
Ive first of all looked at what Mrs H has said in relation to VM not clearly outlining how 
external transfers are processed in its terms and conditions. Mrs H thinks there should be a 
term specifically outlining how the transfer will happen. However, broadly speaking, terms 
and conditions usually provide an outline of the contractual agreement between both parties. They often wont contain detailed information about how a business operates on a day to 
day basis. One of the reasons for this might well be because it allows operational changes to 
be made without it being necessary to alter the contractual agreement between both parties. 
So Im satisfied that VM hasnt acted unfairly by not outlining in its terms the particulars of 
what steps need to be taken in order for funds to be transferred to another provider. I think 
its reasonable for VM to outline the transfer process outside of the plan terms.  
Having said that, I would expect VM to let Mrs H know what steps she needs to take to 
transfer her funds, assuming she asked VM for this information. So Ive looked at whether 
the process was clearly explained to Mrs H and whether she was provided with the tools 
needed to transfer her funds to a new provider. 
I can see that Mrs H first requested the relevant pension transfer paperwork by email several 
times in November 2021. Her husband, Mr H, then rang and spoke to a VM adviser on 
9 December 2021 and requested the paperwork again. The VM adviser said he would 
arrange for the paperwork to be sent and I can see that a letter, with the transfer paperwork 
attached, was sent to Mr H on 9 December 2021. The letter containing the transfer 
paperwork was addressed only to Mr H, so the transfer paperwork was not sent directly to 
Mrs H at that point in time. 
Having listened to the phone call between Mr H and VM on 9 December 2021, I dont think it 
was made clear to the VM adviser that both Mr H and Mrs H wanted copies of the transfer 
paperwork. Mr H didnt mention that he was also calling on behalf of his wife and as he and 
Mrs H hold separate policies, I dont think it would be fair to expect the VM adviser to know 
that Mrs H also wanted a copy of the transfer paperwork. So I dont think VM made an error 
when it didnt send the transfer paperwork to Mrs H following Mr Hs phone call to it on 9 
December 2021.
Having said that, I do think that VM failed to action several requests for the transfer 
paperwork that Mrs H made by email in November 2021. This meant Mrs H didnt get a letter 
with the transfer paperwork attached, that was specifically addressed to her, until around 
September or October 2022. This was quite a long time for Mrs H to wait to receive the 
transfer paperwork. So Ive considered whether this caused her any detriment, and I dont 
think it did. Ill explain why I say that. 
As I said, its the case that VM didnt send the transfer paperwork specifically to Mrs H until 
around 10 months after it was requested. However, Mrs Hs husband received the transfer 
paperwork from VM in December 2021. Its clear that Mr and Mrs H are very much working 
in tandem in relation to the transfer of their pensions, so Im satisfied that Mrs H will most 
likely have had access to the transfer paperwork sent to her husband in December 2021. So 
I think if Mrs H had wanted to begin the transfer process prior to VM sending the papers 
directly to her, then she could have done that by using a copy of the transfer papers sent to 
Mr H. 
Ive seen a copy of the letter sent to Mr H on 9 December 2021 and the transfer forms that 
were attached. Ive already said Im satisfied Mrs H had access to this paperwork and Im 
also satisfied that the letter and forms were clearly worded enough that a reasonable 
consumer, and thats the appropriate test here, would understand the steps they needed to 
take to start the process of transferring pension funds to another provider. 
Although Mrs H has repeatedly said she wants to transfer her pension funds, to date she 
hasnt actually completed and submitted the transfer paperwork. So I cant say that the delay 
in sending the paperwork to her is linked to why Mrs Hs PPP remains with VM. Mrs H feels she lost out on an incentive that was offered by a different provider, if she 
transferred her funds by a certain date in 2022. But Mrs H hasnt yet completed the correct 
paperwork in order to transfer her pension funds. So I cant fairly say that she lost out on this 
incentive because of any action, or inaction, on the part of VM. 
Mrs H told this Service that she was provided with contradictory information during phone 
calls with VM advisers about whether to send the transfer paperwork to VM or to the new 
provider. But, having listened to the various calls Mrs H made to VM between November 
2021 and February 2022, Ive not heard that contradictory information was provided. During 
calls made between November 2021 and February 2022 the same essential message was 
given to Mrs H by VM advisers, which was that Mrs H needed to complete transfer forms 
and also that she needed to contact both VM and the new provider about the transfer. I know 
that Mrs H thought that she was provided with contradictory information during a call with a 
VM adviser in January 2022, but that conversation was in relation to transferring a different 
product.  
Ive already said that Im satisfied Mrs H most likely had access to the transfer papers in 
December 2021. So even if she thought she had been given contradictory information by VM 
advisers when she called  and I dont agree that was the case  she was already in 
possession of the transfer papers and these clearly told her what steps needed to be taken 
to start the transfer process. 
Mrs H also told this Service that when she spoke to a VM adviser she was told that VM 
would accept written, signed instructions to start the transfer process. Mrs H said she thinks 
VM should consider a letter signed by her to be sufficient authorisation to transfer her 
pension to a new provider. So Mrs H doesnt think she should have to complete the transfer 
paperwork sent to her husband by VM in December 2021. 
This point was raised again by Mrs H when she responded to my provisional decision and 
said shed received a letter in August 2023 from VM stating that it would, in fact, accept 
written instructions to begin the process of transferring Mrs Hs pension to another provider. 
When I issued my provisional decision, I said I couldnt see any evidence to suggest Mrs H 
was told that a signed letter is enough to start the transfer process. I can see that Mrs Hs 
husband was told during the 5 February 2022 call with a VM adviser that a wet signature 
was needed, but this was in response to a question asked about why pension funds couldnt 
be transferred electronically. The VM adviser did not say that a signed letter was sufficient 
authorisation, and the adviser had stated earlier in the call that it was necessary to complete 
the relevant transfer paperwork. So, up to the point Mrs H responded to my provisional 
decision, I couldnt see that Mrs H was told that a signed letter was enough to start the 
transfer process. 
The fact that Mrs H has provided a very recent letter  dated from August 2023  from VM 
stating that it will accept written instructions does not change my finding that Mrs H hadnt 
been told this previously. The issue here is that its for VM to decide how it accepts transfer 
instructions. VM will have set up its transfer process so that it can carry out security checks 
before it begins the process of transferring a pension. This offers protection to both VM and 
its consumers. And our Service wont interfere with reasonable security measures taken by 
VM. 
So Im satisfied that its reasonable for VM to be the party that decides whether a signed 
letter submitted instead of the transfer forms contains enough information, permissions and 
declarations for it to be considered a valid request to transfer. VM has said that Mrs Hs 
written requests had so far fallen far short of being acceptable and of providing the 
information and declarations it needed to start sharing her personal information with another provider, and of the information the other provider would need to assess the transfer and 
seek to accept it. As I said, its for VM to decide how it accepts transfer instructions and I 
wont interfere with this. 
Transferring funds electronically 
Mrs H has said that once she decides to transfer her pension funds, she wants the transfer 
to be carried out as quickly as possible so that the value of the funds dont fluctuate while the 
transfer is being processed. She wants VM to use a particular electronic transfer system to 
facilitate this. But VM doesnt use this system and has made this clear to Mrs H. Whether 
VM chooses to use this system or not is a commercial decision VM is entitled to make and 
which this Service wont interfere with. I can appreciate why Mrs H would want any transfer 
completed quickly  she doesnt want funds to devalue during the transfer process. But its 
the case that funds could also increase in value since investments fluctuate. Regardless, VM 
simply doesnt use this system and as I said, we wont interfere with that commercial 
decision. 
Use of cash accounts during the transfer process
VM told Mrs H and this Service that it does not move consumers funds into cash accounts 
once an instruction to transfer funds has been received. But Mrs H thinks that cash accounts 
should be utilised by VM at the start of the transfer process, as she feels her money should 
be protected from any market changes from the point in time that she instructs VM. Mrs H 
told this Service that her PPP has decreased in value quite significantly since she moved it 
to a Bonds and Gilts fund in November 2021 and January 2022. She thinks this decrease 
wouldnt have happened if VM had moved her funds to a cash account back in November 
2021, when she first told it of her intention to transfer her funds to another provider. So 
Mrs H thinks VM should compensate her for the amount shes lost.  
Mrs H pointed to a clause in the PPP terms and conditions which she believes indicates that 
a cash account will be used by VM once a decision is made to transfer pension funds. But 
Ive read the term in question and Im satisfied it doesnt apply to Mrs Hs situation. 
The term Mrs H is referring to summarises the process that VM will follow if it is VM that 
makes the decision to transfer Mrs Hs PPP to another provider. It does not outline the 
process VM will follow if it is Mrs H who makes the decision to transfer her PPP. 
For clarity, the term Mrs H is referring to says: 
16b Can Virgin Money transfer my pension? We may transfer your pension to another 
registered pension scheme that is governed by HMRC where we consider that this would 
mean that you would receive a better pension product or service. If we do this, well give you 
at least 30 days notice before the transfer is due to take place. The value of your pension 
would be protected throughout any transfer, and we would seek to ensure that youre not 
prejudiced by the transfer.
As I said, Im satisfied this term does not apply to Mrs Hs situation. The term that does apply 
here, should Mrs H decide to transfer her pension fund, is: 
You can transfer your pension savings to another pension provider at any time, and we 
wont charge for this. Once we receive notification from your new pension provider, and both 
parties have all the information needed, well move your pension to them using the unit price 
on the transfer day. Once your new provider has told us that you are transferring you cant 
change your mind. Im satisfied that this term clearly states that the unit price that will be relied on when an 
external transfer is being processed is the price on the day the funds are actually transferred 
to the new provider  and not on the day the transfer is requested by Mrs H. And this means 
that VM doesnt place funds in cash accounts once a consumer has initiated the transfer 
process, as the transfer value is not calculated at that stage. 
Ive listened to a recording of the call Mrs Hs husband made to a VM adviser on 5 February 
2022. He asked the advisor whether VM used a cash account to hold funds while transfers 
were being processed. He was told it doesnt  that all funds remain in investment accounts. 
When he expressed concern that the value of pension funds could change during the 
transfer process, the adviser confirmed that this was correct, that all funds are subject to 
market movements. Im satisfied Mr H would have relayed the key messages from this 
phone call to Mrs H. 
So Im satisfied the plan terms mean VM was correct to say on 5 February 2022 that it does 
not transfer pension funds to a cash account once a consumer initiates the transfer of their 
funds to a different provider. This means that I dont intend to ask VM to take any further 
action in relation to Mrs Hs request that her funds are placed in a cash account at the point 
in time that she initiates the transfer process.  
When Mrs H responded to my provisional decision, she provided terms that she said showed 
that VM would rely on the unit price on the day it received full written instructions to transfer 
funds. VM has confirmed that these are old terms and have been superseded several times. 
And I can see that the terms are indeed those listed under a different Virgin brand, which I 
understand no longer exists. So while I appreciate that Mrs H would likely have had no idea 
she was submitting old terms, they are out of date and the term that can be relied on here is 
the one Ive outlined above. 
Other concerns: 
I can appreciate that Mrs H is also concerned about the fact that the value of her pension 
funds have decreased quite significantly over the past 18 months or so. I make no specific 
findings on this point, but its important to note that the value of investments can go down as 
well as up. Bond and Gilt funds arent immune to risk, and its my understanding that global 
events have affected most investments, with increased inflation and interest causing gilt 
values to fall significantly.
Mrs H is concerned that VM said it would hold onto her funds indefinitely if she did not 
complete the necessary transfer paperwork. Its not clear just what Mrs H is concerned about 
here  if she doesnt complete the necessary transfer paperwork in whatever form that 
contains all the necessary information required by VM, then it reasonably follows that VM 
cant transfer her funds to a new provider. Broadly speaking, it cant transfer the funds 
without her authorisation, and her authorisation is given by her correctly completing and 
submitting the transfer paperwork. 
To summarise, Im satisfied that Mrs H would have had access to the correct transfer 
paperwork back in December 2021, and that the transfer paperwork makes it clear what 
steps need to be taken by Mrs H to start the transfer process. I understand why Mrs H might 
be reluctant to transfer her funds to a new provider at this stage, given the decrease in the 
fund value. And I have a great deal of sympathy for the situation she finds herself in. But 
while I know Mrs H will be disappointed with my decision, I am not intending to ask VM to 
take further action in relation to this complaint. My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman