DRN-2223786
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr B complain they werent told that a loan The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc made 
to their business partnership would need to be renegotiated after only three years, and also 
that this would incur a significant fee.
What happened
Mrs A and Mr B run a business in partnership. In 2016, they took out a loan from RBS for 
that business. They say they thought this loan would run for ten years. They say they werent 
told that they would need to refinance the loan again in three years. So they were surprised 
to be told in 2019 that they would need to take out a new loan, and very disappointed to be 
asked to pay a sizeable arrangement fee for that new loan. Mrs A and Mr B want RBS to 
waive the arrangement fee now, because they werent warned about it. 
RBS said the loan agreement with Mrs A and Mr B made clear that it was for a three-year 
term. And notes from the time said this was done to mirror a three-year break clause in the 
lease for the business premises that the loan relates to. Loan repayments were worked out 
over a ten-year period, as this also mirrored the overall term of the lease. 
RBS didnt agree that it had made mistakes in the information provided for the loan, so it 
wouldnt waive the arrangement fees now. 
Mrs A said RBS had indicated in September 2019 that it would waive the arrangement fee. 
She wanted our service to listen to this call. RBS hasnt been able to find a recording of it. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said he wouldnt expect 
RBS to still have the relevant calls from 2016. So hed considered the evidence which was 
available. And he said the point of sale documents were clear that the loan would run for 
three years, so it would end at the same time as a break clause in the commercial lease 
could be triggered. This was in case the lease wasnt renewed. 
Mrs A had told us RBS hadnt mentioned the break clause. Shed said she and Mr B knew 
about it, because their own solicitors had pointed it out when they were signing the lease. 
But our investigator thought, because the loan was structured this way, the terms of the 
lease, and in particular the break clause, would have been discussed at some point before 
the loan was agreed to.
Our investigator also said that in the loan agreement documents, under loan details, it 
states that the final repayment date was 36 months after the date of the agreement, although 
the instalment amounts were based on a repayment term of ten years.
Our investigator thought the loan agreement was clear that the loan only runs for three 
years. That was displayed prominently and clearly on the first page of the loan agreement.
Our investigator knew that there was no arrangement fee on the original loan. He didnt think 
RBS had to mention then that it might charge such a fee if the loan was renewed. 
Mrs A didnt agree with that. She thought that the call from 2019 that our service hadnt been 
able to listen to wouldve proved she and Mr B were right. She wanted her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
The loan document Mrs A and Mr B signed sets out that the loan is to run for a term of 36 
months. It also says that instalments are based on an overall term of ten years, so it warns 
that the final payment may be substantial. I think that this loan document is clear that it 
operates for three years, and that Mrs A and Mr B will still owe quite a lot of money at the 
end of that period. So they either have to make one very large payment after three years, or 
they need to get a new loan. 
RBS says it did this to mirror the lease. But it also says it just wouldnt offer a ten-year 
commercial loan. The maximum term is much shorter, and I can see this is also reflected in 
the new loan Mrs A and Mr B have now signed. 
I know we dont have recordings of calls in 2016 when this loan was discussed, but Ive 
considered the evidence we do have, and I dont think its likely that Mrs A and Mr B were 
misled about this loan in 2016.
Our investigator said he didnt think RBS shouldve warned Mrs A and Mr B, back in 2016, 
that they might face an arrangement fee after the 2016 loan ended. I think thats right. RBS 
wouldnt have known in 2016 what its business practices would be in 2019, or indeed what 
other banks might be likely to do. So I dont think RBS had to warn them then about the 
possibility of an arrangement fee being charged now. 
RBS said it would consider further lending to Mrs A and Mr B, but it will charge an 
arrangement fee. Or they would be free to seek a loan elsewhere, however they may still 
find they need to pay a fee for that. I understand that Mrs A and Mr B have now taken a new 
loan with RBS. 
Mrs A says that more recently, in late 2019, she spoke to RBS and it indicated it would waive 
the arrangement fee. I havent been able to listen to this call, as RBS cant find it. It says not 
all of its calls are recorded. RBS doesnt think its staff wouldve said this. 
Its possible that there has been a misunderstanding here. But even if RBS thought at some 
point that it was going to be able to waive this fee, I would still say it was clear when Mrs A 
and Mr B signed for this new loan, that they were going to be charged a fee. So I dont think 
that Mrs A and Mr B were misled about the loan they have taken out recently, and I dont 
think RBS has to pay that arrangement fee back.
I know Mrs A and Mr B will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman