DRN-3208812
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) lent to
her irresponsibly.
What happened
In January 2020, Miss B applied for a Barclaycard with a balance transfer offer. Barclaycard 
agreed, with an initial limit of £200. After validating her income, a limit of £5,700 was 
approved. Miss B transferred £2,735 from her other credit card. The balance transfer offer 
was zero interest for 18 months  until July 2021. In March 2021, Barclaycard reduced Miss 
Bs limit to £3,150.
Miss B complained. She said Barclaycard couldnt have completed sufficient checks. She 
had missed payments on her other credit card  which Barclaycard shouldve seen. She 
was working in the NHS and was suffering from stress and poor mental health. Shes also 
suffered several family bereavements.
Barclaycard said that Miss B passed their checks when they approved the credit card and 
its limit. In her application, shed said she lived with her parents, had a monthly income of
£1,300, and monthly disposable income of £686. She had one other credit card  which 
had been well maintained in the months before her application to them. Theyd validated 
her income  after which theyd agreed a limit of £5,700. They reduced Miss Bs limit in 
March 2021 following a review  to ensure the borrowing was still affordable.
Miss B brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclaycard hadnt acted fairly. 
She didnt consider her salary of £1,300 a month justified the limit of £5,700. And later  
Miss B found herself in financial difficulty because she missed a payment in February 
2021. She said Barclaycard should refund all fees and interest and remove any adverse 
markers from Miss Bs credit file. And they should pay compensation of £150.
Barclaycard didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at Miss Bs complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether 
Barclaycard acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness 
assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must 
undertake a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of 
the customer not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being 
able to make repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a 
fair lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the 
lender knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid.
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so 
the higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then 
fewer checks can be made.
So  Ive considered Miss Bs complaint in the light of this guidance.
I can see that when Miss B applied for the credit card from Barclaycard, she said she lived 
at home with her parents and earnt £1,300 a month. Her outgoings were £537, and she 
had £686 left over each month. Barclaycards checks showed that she had one other 
credit card with a limit of £2,802  but she had managed that well. There had been two 
missed payments since she took that card in July 2015  but the most recent missed 
payment was 18 months before her application to Barclaycard. Thats a long time before. 
So  I dont think that showed there were problems with the other credit card. There 
werent any other loans or credit cards. Barclaycard then got proof of Miss Bs income 
before giving her the limit of £5,700. Our investigator thought that a limit of £5,700 (plus 
the other cards limit of £2,802) in comparison with Miss Bs salary was high. With her 
other credit card, it was about half her annual income. But, given that she had a fairly low 
level of expenditure, with no other credit facilities, I think it was acceptable. Overall  the 
checks suggested that Miss Bs could afford the credit limit.
So  it looks to me as though  based on the checks they completed, and the information 
they had  that Barclaycard were correct in issuing Miss B with the card. While this 
decision looks at Barclaycards initial lending decision, I did see that Miss B went on to run 
her account satisfactorily. She made all the monthly payments  apart from missing two, 
which she put right straight away. And her balance was only ever about half of the credit 
limit. So  this goes to show that Barclaycards decision to lend in the first place was fair.
I was sorry to learn of Miss Bs personal situation and her poor health. I hope things are
improving for her. Shes told us she is now in financial difficulty. All banks must treat 
customers who are in this position with sympathy and to consider a reduced payment plan. 
If Miss B is still under financial pressure, she should speak to Barclaycard (and to the bank 
who issued her other credit card) and see if they can agree this for her. But when Ive 
looked at Barclaycards lending decision, I think they did all the checks they needed to and
lent responsibly. And so  I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Barclaycard didnt have any particular comments, and Miss B didnt respond.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither Barclaycard or Miss B had any comments, I wont be departing from the 
provisional decision and for the reasons I gave in it. And so  I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman