DRN-2013470
The complaint
Mr P complains that Advancis Limited, trading as Buddy Loans, lent to him irresponsibly and 
without carrying out proper affordability checks. He would like all the fees and charges 
associated with the loan refunded.
What happened
In July 2018 Buddy Loans approved a guarantor loan of £1,500 for Mr P, which was 
scheduled to be repaid at approximately £73 per month over a term of 36 months. The first 
repayment was higher, at about £107. The loan was intended to be used to buy a car. When 
assessing the application, Buddy Loans took steps to verify Mr Ps income and carried out a 
credit check before approving the lending.
It isnt clear whether the loan has been repaid in full or not.
One of our investigators looked into this case and thought that Buddy Loans checks didnt 
go far enough. And that, if the checks had gone further, it would have seen that this lending 
wasnt sustainable for Mr P. So, he upheld the complaint.
Buddy Loans didnt accept that. It says its checks were fully compliant with FCA regulations 
and asked an Ombudsman to look at the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Buddy Loans is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the 
time of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I 
wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure that Mr P would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. 
As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Crucially, Mr P needed to be able to meet his financial commitments and not have to borrow 
elsewhere to repay Buddy Loans for the loan to be considered affordable and sustainable.
Did Buddy Loans carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
Buddy Loans asked Mr P questions about his income and expenditure; reviewed recent 
pay slips; and carried out a credit check when considering his loan application. It carried 
out an income and expenditure assessment, which initially identified concerns about 
whether Mr P had enough disposable income to be able to make the repayments on this 
loan. However, it appears that he then discussed his situation with Buddy Loans and 
agreed to stop saving £50 per month in order to increase his disposable income.
So, its clear that Buddy Loans did respond to some of the initial information it saw  
including valid concerns about Mr Ps disposable income. And it says that there is no 
requirement for it to request bank statements from potential borrowers, which is entirely 
true.
The regulations do not prescribe the nature of the checks that lenders need to carry out  
or the sources of evidence that must be pursued. The key thing is that lenders carry out 
proportionate checks: by definition, that must mean that the checks for one customer could 
look significantly different from checks for another. Or that checks in relation to the same 
customer could vary greatly over the time, depending on the circumstances.
So the question for me is, in all the circumstances of this case, did Buddy Loans checks 
go far enough for this application to render them proportionate? The answer is no, for 
several reasons.
Firstly, although I acknowledge that the amount being borrowed wasnt unusually high, Mr 
P was signing up to a considerable loan term. Meaning he needed to be able to sustain 
repayments for a reasonably long time. So a responsible lender would need to be satisfied 
about a potential borrowers ability to do so over the full term of the loan.
Secondly, Buddy Loans had already identified that Mr P had a very small disposable 
income of around £107. There was no prospect of this borrowing being sustainable for Mr 
P with that level of disposable income, and it was only when he said that he would stop 
saving £50 per month that Buddy Loans agreed to lend to Mr P. However, the figures still 
didnt leave much in the way of flexibility, again meaning that a responsible lender would 
need to be satisfied about a potential borrowers ability to find the repayment amount 
without borrowing elsewhere.
Finally, and crucially, Buddy Loans was aware of a range of concerning information from 
the credit check it carried out. In brief, this included a high number of active accounts for 
unsecured/short term lending; a high number of recent delinquent payments and defaults; 
and a high overall indebtedness, substantially with high cost lenders.
Taking all of these circumstances together, I dont think Buddy Loans checks went far 
enough so as to be proportionate in this case. Given this was a guarantor loan, it could be 
argued that it could be reasonably satisfied it would ultimately get its money back. But the 
assessment required under the regulations is not one of the risk to the lender, but the risk 
to the borrower of the lending incurring financial difficulties.
So Buddy Loans should have done more, crucially, to verify what Mr P was telling it about 
his expenditure.
What would Buddy Loans have found had it done further checks?
When considering this second question, our service has had the benefit of copies of Mr Ps 
bank statements from the time of the lending. However, there is absolutely no requirement 
on a lender to request bank statements: I accept that entirely. Lenders are permitted to 
source and rely on a range of evidence when assessing affordability, and so Buddy Loans 
could have opted to gather more information about Mr Ps circumstances in a range of 
ways. Bank statements is just one way, but in the absence of anything else provided as 
evidence of Mr Ps full circumstances (especially his expenditure) at the time, Im happy to 
rely on them.Mr Ps bank statements raise several significant concerns suggesting substantial financial 
difficulty, including:
Regularly returned direct debits, even for small amounts.
Frequent gambling.
Regular borrowing from, and repayments to, at least four other high cost short term 
lenders.
Several deposits (including one very substantial one) from an account bearing the 
same surname, but different initials, to Mr P, raising the question as to whether he 
was having to borrow significant amounts from family members.
Regular substantial payments (amounting to almost his entire monthly income) to 
an account seemingly belonging to an individual, not an organisation, and which 
are unaccounted for in the income and expenditure assessment.
It is abundantly clear from the evidence provided that Mr P was struggling financially and 
that his real expenditure was far higher than that disclosed.
As Ive explained, needing to borrow to meet repayments means that the lending is not 
sustainable for the customer. I cannot see how, with proportionate checks, Buddy Loans 
could have concluded that Mr P could sustainably repay this loan without further 
borrowing. It therefore follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr P, Buddy Loans must do the following:
A) Buddy Loans must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the 
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr P as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. 
B) If this results in Mr P having made overpayments then it must refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the payments were 
made, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C) If there is still an outstanding balance following the actions set out in A, then Buddy 
Loans should agree a suitable repayment plan with Mr P.
D) It must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in relation to this
loan, once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to deduct tax from this interest. It should
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Advancis Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman