DRN-4039184
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited (Chase) 
mis-sold them a reviewable whole of life (RWOL) policy.
What happened
In 1995, Mr G met with an adviser from a business Chase have since acquired liability for. 
Mr and Mrs G were married and both aged 35 at the time with two dependants. Mr G earnt 
£38,000 a year with a net disposable income of £1,000 per month.
Mr G was advised to take out a joint RWOL policy providing £115,500 of cover payable on 
the first death, for a premium of £39.94 per month. In 1996 and 1998 Mr and Mrs G 
accepted the policies inflation protection option increasing the sum assured to £127,399 and 
the monthly premium to £50.03.
In August 2020, Mr G complained to Chase after receiving a policy review letter advising 
their premiums would need to be increased to maintain the sum assured, or the sum 
assured would be reduced.
Mr and Mrs G say they were never informed this would potentially be the case and said that 
the adviser at the time described the product as providing a guaranteed death benefit for a 
fixed monthly premium.
Chase didnt uphold the complaint. They said the documents issued to Mr and Mrs G at the 
time explained the cover and premium were guaranteed for ten years and then were 
thereafter subject to review. Chase also said they believed Mr and Mrs G had raised the 
complaint outside of the timescales allowed. 
Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy, so referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Our Investigator first looked into our jurisdiction to consider Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and 
thought it had been raised in time. Chase agreed with our Investigators view and confirmed 
they would await their review.
Looking into the merits of the case, our Investigator said she thought the documentation 
from the time of the sale made it clear the policy would be subject to review, so didnt think 
Chase needed to do anything to put things right.
Mr G disputed ever having received some of the documents our Investigator referred to, 
saying he believed these may have been intentionally withheld by the adviser at the time. In 
addition, after receiving a copy of the policys technical guide, Mr G was also unhappy the 
adviser had sold him a high-risk policy meaning it very likely the premiums would increase.
Our Investigator considered Mr and Mrs Gs comments but remained of the opinion that the 
documents, when considered collectively, made them aware the sum assured was only 
guaranteed for ten years, after which it would be reviewed. As no resolution could be 
reached, this case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing the complaint, I didnt fully agree with our investigator. So, I issued a 
provisional decision on 24 February 2023. In this I said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont currently agree our Investigators view goes far enough, nor do I 
agree Chase dont need to do anything to put things right. Ill explain why.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. Mr and Mrs G 
have presented their case in a detailed manner, and I thank them for this. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And, where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive looked to reach my 
decision about the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and 
wider circumstances.
To date the focus of this complaint has centred around whether Mr and Mrs G were informed 
at the point of sale that theyd potentially need to increase the monthly premium they paid in 
order to maintain the sum assured.
Mr and Mrs G have provided a detailed response as to why they disagree with our 
Investigators position on this point, so I think its important for me to address below. But our 
investigation into every complaint is inquisitive by nature  we ask questions and make 
enquiries to enable us to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. Its only right that we do so, 
to uphold the integrity of our statutory role.
Chases final response letter (FRL) confirmed as part of their investigation they completed a 
full review of their file, looking at Mr and Mrs Gs personal and financial circumstances at the 
time of the advice, in addition to considering any documentation they wouldve received.
As part of my investigation, Ive done the same and having taken everything into 
consideration I dont think the recommendation for Mr and Mrs G to take out a RWOL policy 
was suitable. Ill explain why.
Reviewable nature of the RWOL policy
Mr and Mrs G believe the RWOL policy sold to them in 1995 was unsuitable because they 
say the adviser told them it provided a guaranteed sum assured for a fixed monthly premium 
until one of them were to pass.Im aware Mr and Mrs G dispute receiving some of the documentation our Investigator has 
relied on. And I cant say with certainty all the documents mentioned, for example the 
technical information document, were received by them. But in the circumstances of this 
case, I dont find it necessary to decide as to whether I think the disputed documentation 
was, on the balance of probabilities, received or not to reach a fair and reasonable outcome 
to this case. 
This is because Ive reviewed the documentation I do know was received, such as the 
Personalised Key Features of the Investment and Life Plan and Im satisfied it sets out in a 
clear and not misleading manner that the guaranteed death benefit was only guaranteed for 
ten years, after which regular reviews would be conducted.
The document further says under the What happens if we cash in early section 
The figures you might get back shown above for terms greater than ten years do not take 
into account the contribution increases that are likely to be required at one or more of the 
plan reviews to maintain the same guaranteed death benefit.
In addition, section 8 of the Policy Document provided to us clearly sets out the reviewable 
nature of the policy and says 
If the Actuary decides that those contributions when added to the bid value of the units 
allocated to this policy at that time are insufficient to meet the policy charges, one or both of 
the following shall apply with effect from the review date; either
i. the guaranteed death benefit shall be reduced; or
ii. the contribution shall be increased
It follows that specifically regarding the guaranteed sum assured for a fixed premium nature 
of the policy, Im satisfied based on the evidence available to me that the documents set out 
in a clear, fair, and not misleading manner the policy was reviewable.
Suitability of the advice given in 1995
First, its important to say my role isnt to put a consumer back into a position better than 
they wouldve been in had an error not occurred.
Mr and Mrs G want Chase to reinstate their policy to the sum assured prior to the failed 2020 
review  for the same continued monthly premium. They feel Chase should cover any 
additional premium increase required to maintain it until the policy pays out.
But asking Chase to cover unlimited premium increases to guarantee a sum assured of 
£127,339 wouldnt be putting them back in a position they wouldve ever been in. I say this 
because that amount of guaranteed cover was never available for a fixed monthly premium 
of £50.03. Instead, Ive decided what I think should have happened and reached what I 
consider a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case.
As Ive previously explained Ive taken everything both Mr and Mrs G and Chase have said 
into consideration. But due to the passage of time that has passed, over 22 years, Ive 
placed more weight on the evidence I do have from the time of the advice.
The fact find completed at the time says Mr G wanted life cover to age 60 which was also 
recorded as his target retirement age. Furthermore, the recommendation letter says Mr G 
wished to replace the Death in Service benefits from his existing employers pension scheme  which again fits with wanting cover until he retired.
Mr and Mrs G were both 35 at the time of the advice meaning Im satisfied its more likely 
than not that their priority was arranging cover for 25 years  until they were both aged 60.
Mr G says the adviser explained there were two types of policy. Type 1 - a level term policy 
which provided cover until a specified age and type 2  the RWOL policy they took out which 
provided cover until either life assured died.
Based on the advisers description, Mr G says type 2 appealed to him as he understood it to 
provide a guaranteed inheritance for their sons. And for the reasons Ive explained, whilst Im 
satisfied the reviewable nature of the policy was made clear, the policy was set on a 
maximum cover basis meaning the policy provided the highest level of cover for the premium 
paid.
In their FRL Chase said there is no way that either the adviser or the policy provider would 
have known at the time the policy was issued, if premium increases would possibly be 
needed to maintain the same amount of cover as a result of any review in the future.
But I dont agree this was the case. The technical information provided at the time says 
regarding the maximum cover option:
Maximum cover
This amount is the maximum level of guaranteed death benefit that can be maintained for 
ten years, regardless of investment performance. However, it will usually be necessary to 
increase contributions after the initial ten years period, if this level of guaranteed benefit is to 
continue.
When deciding if the advice given was suitable for Mr and Mrs G, Ive considered the options 
available at the time.
Mr and Mrs G could have taken out a RWOL policy but set up on a different level of cover. 
However, both the Minimum cover and Balanced cover options would have provided them 
a lower sum assured and for a higher monthly premium. In addition, neither option would 
have been without risk of review and possible premium increase. Neither option would have 
provided a guaranteed inheritance  the exact reason Mr G says the RWOL option appealed 
to him.
Mr G has said himself he likely would have taken the option of a level term policy had an 
option that provided a guaranteed inheritance for his sons for whole of life, for a fixed 
premium not been available.
I simply dont know if a non-reviewable RWOL policy was something the adviser was able to 
recommend at the time. But had he been able to, it wouldve been significantly more 
expensive than the policy Mr and Mrs G went on to take out. 
So even if I was able to establish if the adviser was able to recommend that type of cover, 
which I cant, whilst they may have been able to afford a higher premium, Im not able to say 
with any certainty that Mr and Mrs G would have gone ahead with this option.
But a level term policy would have provided Mr and Mrs G a guaranteed sum assured for a 
fixed premium  albeit for a set term. I think this option matches Mr Gs requirement at the 
time - life cover to 60 - and his desire to replace a death in service benefit which would have 
ended on retirement and would have been a suitable recommendation for the advisor to have made.
Taking everything into consideration, based on the information available to me, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest recommending a RWOL policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs G 
circumstances at the time, and Im satisfied the recommendation of a level term policy for 25 
years would have been suitable for their needs.
Had suitable advice been given I think on balance, Mr and Mrs G wouldve taken out a 25-
year level term policy.
To put things right I said:
Chase should determine the cost of a 25-year level term joint life policy providing 
£115,500 of cover from September 1995 to September 2020.
Should Chase not be able to calculate what the cost would have been based on the rates 
and costs in 1995, I consider it fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case that 
they should obtain a quote as at the present rates and costs for a 25-year policy based on 
Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances, such as age, health and pre-existing conditions as at the 
time the whole of life policy was sold.
Chase should then calculate the difference between what Mr and Mrs G have paid 
towards the RWOL policy between its inception in 1995 to date and what they 
wouldve paid had the 25-year level term policy been sold instead.
Ive considered that Mr and Mrs G have remained on risk since September 2020 but had 
suitable advice been given, they wouldnt have been in this position and wouldve stopped 
paying premiums when the term policy ended. So, Im satisfied this redress is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
If Mr and Mrs G have suffered a loss, Chase should pay them the difference, less the 
surrender value of the RWOL policy at the time of settlement. 
Chase should also add 8% simple interest to any sum owed to Mr and Mrs G from 
September 1995 until the date of settlement.
If Chase considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from any interest due to Mr and Mrs G, they should tell them how much theyve taken off.
They should also give Mr and Mrs G a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Finally, as the surrender value of the RWOL policy is to be deducted from any redress due to 
Mr and Mrs G, it is for them to decide if they wish to cancel the policy or retain it. 
Should Mr and Mrs G choose to retain the policy, theyd be doing so on the understanding 
theyre responsible for all premiums due, and that the sum assured may potentially drop 
further, as low as £17,075, unless premiums are increased to maintain the sum assured in 
line with any future reviews.
Both Mr and Mrs G and Chase provided comments in response to my provisional decision. 
Both parties have also now confirmed they have no further comments to add so Ive 
considered all the comments provided and whilst what Ive decided Chase needs to do to put 
things right differs slightly, my overall decision remains the same. Ill explain why.Mr and Mrs G accepted my provisional decision in principle. But they said Chase should 
provide them details of how theyd calculated any redress owed, including the criteria used 
and the extent of their search to determine the cost of a 25-year level term policy. They 
provided a range of quotes theyd obtained and said if Chases quote was reasonably close 
to those it would be acceptable.
In response, I said should Chase not be able to calculate what the cost of a 25-year level 
term policy wouldve been based on the rates and costs in 1995, which they should look to 
do in the first instance, it was fair they should obtain a minimum of three quotes and use the 
cheapest for the basis of their calculations. I also said Chase should provide details of their 
calculations to Mr and Mrs G in a clear and simple format.
Chase disagreed with my provisional decision saying the documentation provided clearly 
illustrated that the plan was reviewable, and the premium level and cover was guaranteed 
for the first ten years, after which it was reviewable. They say Mr and Mrs G were clearly 
aware the policy was a whole of life plan and there is no documentary evidence the cover 
and premium were guaranteed past ten years.
Chase also located a term assurance quotation that was run in the name of Mr G only in 
1995, which they say was to provide a cost comparison.
Ive considered Chases comments in detail, but they havent changed my mind. This is 
because, as I said in my provisional decision, I agree the documents provided set out in a 
clear, fair, and not misleading manner the policy taken out was reviewable. My decision isnt 
based on Mr and Mrs G being aware or not that the policy was a whole of life plan.
Rather, its that Ive seen nothing to suggest the recommendation of the whole of life plan 
was suitable and for the reasons Ive previously explained, Im satisfied the recommendation 
of a joint level term policy for 25 years wouldve been suitable for their needs.
Ive also considered the level term quote produced at the time in the name of Mr G only, but 
Ive seen nothing to suggest this was presented to Mr G. The fact-find was completed four 
days prior to the quote being produced and on the same day the recommendation letter was 
sent out, which makes no mention of a comparison having been provided.
For these reasons, and for the reasons in my provisional decision, my decision remains that 
this complaint should be upheld. However, Chase also raised questions about the redress Id 
set out in my provisional decision.
Regarding interest payable at 8% on any redress owed, Chase questioned on what figures 
should it be applied. They also said the date of the surrender value used should be as of 
September 2020, not the surrender value at the date of settlement.
I confirmed regarding the interest, should there be a difference in premiums between a level 
term and the whole of life policy, Chase should calculate from the date each premium was 
paid (or if they should choose, and it is in Mr and Mrs Gs favour, for each year) and then 
add 8% simple interest from then until the date of settlement. I also agreed the settlement 
value used should be that as of September 2020.
I let both Mr and Mrs G, and Chase know in advance any planned changes to the redress I 
proposed and gave all parties the opportunity to comment before I reached this decision.
Putting things right
To put things right Chase should do the following:Chase should determine the cost of a 25-year level term joint life policy providing 
£115,500 of cover from September 1995 to September 2020.
Should Chase not be able to calculate what the cost would have been based on the rates 
and costs in 1995, I consider it fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case that 
they should obtain a minimum of three quotes as at the present rates and costs for a 25-year 
policy based on Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances, such as age, health and pre-existing 
conditions, as at the time the whole of life policy was sold. Chase should then use the 
cheaper of those quotes.
Chase should then calculate the difference between what Mr and Mrs G have paid 
towards the RWOL policy between its inception in 1995 to date and what they 
wouldve paid had the 25-year level term policy been sold instead.
Ive considered that Mr and Mrs G have remained on risk since September 2020 but had 
suitable advice been given, they wouldnt have been in this position and wouldve stopped 
paying premiums when the term policy ended. So, Im satisfied this redress is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
If Mr and Mrs G have suffered a loss, Chase should pay them the difference, less the 
surrender value of the RWOL policy as of September 2020. 
Chase should also calculate from the date each premium was paid (or should they 
choose, and its in Mr and Mrs Gs favor, for each year) and then add 8% simple 
interest from then until the date of settlement.
If Chase considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from any interest due to Mr and Mrs G, they should tell them how much theyve taken off. 
They should also give Mr and Mrs G a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Chase should provide details of its calculation to Mr and Mrs G in a clear, simple format.
Finally, as the surrender value of the RWOL policy is to be deducted from any redress due to 
Mr and Mrs G, it is for them to decide if they wish to cancel the policy or retain it. 
Should Mr and Mrs G choose to retain the policy, theyd be doing so on the understanding 
theyre responsible for all premiums due, and that the sum assured may potentially drop 
further, as low as £17,075, unless premiums are increased to maintain the sum assured in 
line with any future reviews.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
direct Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited to do as Ive explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman