DRN-3029025
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken with a mortgage in 
1996. Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold them 
the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, including much of 
Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, 
limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this here. 
Mr and Mrs W were both employed at the time of sale. Mr W had been with his employer 
around 30 years and Mrs W for around four years. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but my colleague thought Halifaxs 
offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high 
commission and profit share Mr and Mrs W paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  it didnt raise new 
or extra points but repeated complaint points and arguments made before. Mr and Mrs W 
also requested a decision and have kindly provided some further information and points. As 
the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mr and Mrs W agreed to the PPI and signed a separate PPI application form. Theyve 
said they had never taken PPI on loans before  and didnt think they had taken this PPI 
until they checked their records. They say they have been trying to recall the events and, 
from what theyve said, they think Halifax mightve misled them into agreeing to the PPI 
by saying it was a government requirement for mortgage loans. 
Ive thought about all this carefully. But, given the time thats passed, the difficulty of 
recalling events so long ago and the fact Mr and Mrs W have said they didnt initially 
have any recollection of having taken the PPI, the recollections theyve now given about 
this arent enough on their own to make me think Halifax misled them in the way they 
think it mightve done - and I havent anything else to make me think this.
Also, Ive nothing to make me think Halifax wouldnt normally have made clear to 
customers like Mr and Mrs W that the PPI was optional and added it only if they said 
they wanted it. The use of a separate form for it tends to suggest it was made clear the 
PPI was something separate from the mortgage loan and that Mr and Mrs W would have 
a separate choice to make about it. So Im not persuaded Halifax just included it as part 
of the package with Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage, as was suggested on their behalf in the 
questionnaires sent to us for their complaint. 
Taking everything into account, on balance what I have makes me think it more likely 
Halifax made it clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs W chose to take it  but it 
would be understandable if they didnt recall all the details now.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, so it had to check the PPI was right for 
them. And based on the evidence I have about their circumstances at the time, the policy 
wasnt unsuitable for them. For example, I think the cost was affordable for them while 
they were working and what theyve told us about their employment and work benefits 
makes me think it likely they wouldve suffered a loss of income, and so found the net 
benefit of the policy useful, if either one of them, or both, were unable to work for a 
longer time due to accident, sickness or unemployment. Mr W, for example, has told us 
his work pay wouldve reduced by over 40% if he were sick for longer than six months. 
I dont doubt what Mr and Mrs W have said about the PPI benefit not being worth as 
much as their work benefits, but I cant agree that this made it unnecessary or of no 
benefit  because the PPI benefit was payable on top of their work benefits and in my 
view wouldve been useful to them for the reasons and in the circumstances Ive outlined 
above. So, having given careful consideration to all they have told us about this, Im still 
satisfied Mr and Mrs W had a need for the cover.
The policy excluded claims for pre-existing conditions, but Mrs W hadnt had any health 
issues and Ive nothing to persuade me Halifax ought to have considered the issue Mr W 
had been treated for more than 20 years earlier as ongoing or likely to keep him off work 
in future. So I dont think this exclusion made it wrong for Halifax to recommend the 
cover to Mr and Mrs W either. Also, nothing about their employment or occupations 
wouldve made it difficult for them to claim.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found they chose to take it, and I think it unlikely they wouldve 
done so without at least a broad idea of the cover it provided - so it looks to me like they 
wanted this type of cover. Also the cover wasnt unsuitable for them, as I concluded above, and it seems like it 
wouldve been useful for them if something went wrong. The application form they signed 
for it set out the monthly cost, so Im also satisfied they were aware of this when they 
chose to take it. Overall, I dont think it likely the cover was too dissimilar to what they 
thought they were buying from the information its likely they were given  and, with this 
and all Ive said above in mind, I dont think they wouldve declined the cover had Halifax 
done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale and 
despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt unsuitable for them - and I think 
they wouldve still thought they had some good reasons to take it.
Overall, I consider Mr and Mrs W wouldve still taken the PPI. Given their circumstances, if 
either, or both, lost their job or became too sick to work, the policy couldve provided a useful 
benefit at what could be a difficult a time. I also think it was sufficiently close to what its likely 
they thought they were getting. And, in those circumstances, I think they wouldve taken the 
policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value 
because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low 
claims ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the 
poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it 
had on the chances of making a claim.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
Ive thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ws particular case. 
But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about whats fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold 
the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Halifax didnt tell Mr and Mrs W about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in 
this case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Halifax and Mr and Mrs W was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act, 
because Halifax didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case; 
I dont think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs W, because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified. Mr and Mrs Ws representative has made a number of 
representations about this part of the complaint, including the impact of the Plevin judgment 
and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary it has said Mr and Mrs W should get back all the money they paid for the policy 
because: Halifax failed to tell Mr and Mrs W about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because it says 
that meant the policy was poor value, it says I should find that Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have 
taken the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipTaking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs W in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Halifax not disclosing the high 
level of commission to them before they purchased the policy. So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Ws representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Halifaxs failure to disclose the level of 
commission, for the reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Halifax to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr and Mrs W paid for their PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves 
Mr and Mrs W with the policy Ive concluded above they wouldve still taken if Halifax had 
done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Halifaxs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances.
Im grateful to Mr and Mrs W for their prompt responses and courtesy throughout and for all 
the further points and information they have provided to assist us.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mr and Mrs W an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable) - if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman