DRN-3880228
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the liability decision Advantage Insurance Company Limited reached 
on his motor insurance claim and with the service they provided.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr W was involved in a collision with another vehicle. He was exiting a car park 
via an emergency exit and the third party was driving along a one-way road the wrong way. 
Advantage initially paid full costs to the third-party on a without prejudice basis, later putting 
forward split liability. The claim has been ongoing for some time as an agreement hadnt 
been reached.
Mr W complained to Advantage about the liability decision as well as delays in progressing 
and closing the claim. Advantage accepted there had been delays of around three months in 
corresponding with the third-party insurer. And theyd also delayed escalating the claim to 
their solicitors by around two months. But they felt split liability was a fair resolution as Mr W 
was emerging from a junction, he had a duty of care to ensure the road was safe to join in 
line with the highway code. They offered £50 compensation for the delays. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr W referred his concerns to this service. Our investigator felt that 
Advantage had been fair in reaching split liability but that their initial acceptance of liability in 
full was too premature and this had impacted the claim. Advantage had increased its offer to 
£150 but considering this and the subsequent delays he felt £300 compensation was fair in 
the circumstances. 
Mr W accepted this but Advantage didnt. They said they had presented 50/50 split liability to 
the third party as well as settling the claim in full on a without prejudice basis shortly after the 
accident. And explained its standard practice to settle claims initially on a without prejudice 
basis to limit costs incurred as well as protect customers from potential prosecution. They 
maintained that £150 was fair for the delays Mr W incurred. 
Our investigator wasnt able to resolve things, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
In December 2022, I issued a provisional decision, which said:
Im aware Mr W has made a further complaint regarding ongoing delays following the final 
response letter. At Mr Ws request, Ive only considered the delay up to the point of the final 
response being issued.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Advantage has a responsibility to settle claims promptly and fairly. The terms and conditions 
set out the agreement between Advantage and Mr W. In relation to making claims, the terms 
say:
your Insurer has the right to:
Take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim
Take legal action over any claim
When defending or settling a claim, your Insurer is entitled to instruct the solicitors of 
their choice to act for you in any proceedings. If they feel it's appropriate, your Insurer 
will be entitled to admit liability, for the costs covered under this Policy on behalf of you 
or any person claiming indemnify under the Policy
So Advantages action in relation to settling liability is in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy.
In his view, the investigator said the file notes suggest there was an error in recording full 
liability, but Advantage have explained there wasnt an error. Five days after the accident, 
they settled the third partys claim in full to mitigate costs and protect Mr W from potential 
prosecution. They also put forward 50/50 split liability, but this wasnt agreed until much 
later. 
It isnt my role to determine liability, but to consider if Advantage have been fair when 
assessing the claim. I understand why Mr W felt a decision had been made at the outset 
without full consideration to his version of events or further evidence. But it isnt unusual for 
insurers to settle claims on a without prejudice basis, for the reasons theyve explained, and 
it leaves it open to further dispute liability where needed as Advantage did.
Taking account of everything I dont think Advantage have been unfair is settling on a split 
liability basis. Theyve considered the third party was travelling incorrectly down a one-way 
road but have also considered that Mr W was exiting a car park via an emergency exit and 
was emerging from a junction which required a duty of care. Considering this along with the 
areas of impact I dont think theyve been unreasonable in reaching this conclusion.
I also note that Advantage had explained to Mr Ws representative why they had decided 
split liability and what that meant fairly early on in the process so Mr W was aware of their 
decision how it would impact him.
Delays
Advantage have accepted they have caused delays of around five months and havent 
communicated with Mr W as they should have. 
Whilst Advantage increased its offer to £150 I dont think this fairly compensates Mr W. I say 
this because a five-month delay is a considerable amount of time. I recognise that 
regardless of a full at fault claim or split liability settlement Mr W will still have an at fault 
claim registered against him. However, once a split liability decision is achieved Mr W will be 
entitled to 50% of his excess back. So he has been delayed in receiving this.
Additionally having an open claim thats been ongoing for some time will have an impact. 
Mr W has explained he had suffered mental and emotional pressure which became 
overwhelming in the first year of the claim. And the lack of correspondence added distress to 
an already stressful situation. Its likely the unnecessary delay has added to this.
The claim has been ongoing for some time, but this can happen when theres a dispute with 
liability. Mr W has been represented during the claim and I can see his representative has 
dedicated considerable time to trying to resolve things for Mr W, including chasing Advantage for information. But I cant consider any distress or inconvenience caused to a 
representative only Mr W as he is the policy holder.
Overall, for the reasons explained, I think £200 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the delays in progressing the claim and lack of correspondence.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr W and Advantage have accepted the provisional decision.
Whilst Mr W has accepted my provisional decision, I understand he feels the compensation 
isnt enough to cover the time its taken and lack of communication from Advantage. And I 
can understand why he feels this way.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained liability can at times take longer to resolve than might be anticipated. And 
Advantage had explained early on in the process how they were looking to resolve it and 
what that meant for Mr W. So whilst it took a long time, he was aware of their stance on the 
claim.
Advantage had caused some delays but the third party were already slow at responding and 
have been since they followed up which suggests some of the delays havent caused as 
much of an impact as its likely things wouldnt have been much further forward.
As Mr W was represented, and wasnt the one chasing Advantage, he hadnt been impacted 
in the same way as if he had. And as I cant compensate a representative this was reflected 
in the compensation awarded.
My final decision
My final decision is that Advantage Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr W £200 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman