DRN-3236269
The complaint
Mr M has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct did not treat him 
fairly after he missed some payments on his personal loan.
  
What happened
Mr M had a personal loan with first direct and missed some payments back in 2007 and 
2008. He received a court order demanding repayment of his total debt with first direct. Mr 
M wrote to the court to explain his financial position. There was a court hearing and the 
court ordered him to pay a minimum monthly payment to first direct and allowed first direct 
to place a charge against his home. In 2020, Mr M received a letter from first direct to say 
that, following a review, it had realised it hadnt engaged as it should have done in 2008 
and it was paying him £25 in compensation for this.
Mr M didnt think the compensation was enough and complained. first direct wouldnt 
increase the compensation, so Mr M complained to us. One of our investigators 
considered his complaint and recommended £100 in compensation instead of the £25 first 
direct had paid.
Mr M doesnt think £100 is enough to reflect the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced due to the lack of flexibility and engagement by first direct. Hes pointed out 
that other lenders he dealt with agreed reduced payments. He thinks if first direct had 
engaged with him properly, court action could have been avoided. He also feels by 
suggesting £100 in compensation our investigator may have prevented first direct from 
offering more.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 December in which I explained what Id provisionally 
decided as follows:
I should say at the outset that it is for us as a service to decide the level of compensation 
that is appropriate in this type of case, as opposed to asking the bank to suggest an 
amount.
Unfortunately, there is very little information available from first direct on what happened with
regards to Mr Ms debt with it. But, its clear from what first direct has said and from Mr 
Ms account that first direct did not engage as it should have done and explore options 
with Mr M before taking court action. However, it is very difficult to say that the court 
action wouldnt have happened anyway, as first direct had a set criteria for reduced 
payments and it doesnt look like Mr M could have paid the minimum amount it would 
have accepted. I appreciate other lenders may well have accepted lower payments 
following engagement with Mr M, but this does not mean this would have happened if first 
direct had engaged with him. However, I do think better engagement and exploring other 
options would have alleviated the distress Mr M experienced, as he would at least have 
felt hed been given a chance, rather than feeling hed been forced into a court case and 
had terms imposed on him. I think the extra distress caused by the lack of engagement by 
first direct warrants a higher compensation payment than our investigator suggested. The 
distress Mr M experienced was clearly significant. Therefore, I think £250 in total is more 
appropriate. If Mr M didnt pay in the cheque first direct sent him for £25, it will need to pay 
him the full £250.
I gave both parties until 31 December to come back with any further evidence or comments.
first direct came back to say it accepted my provisional decision. And it confirmed Mr M did 
pay in the cheque it sent him for £25. 
Mr M has said he doesnt agree with my provisional decision. He doesnt think the 
compensation Ive suggested is a satisfactory amount. He disagrees with the statement that, 
even with effective communication from first direct a court order would not have been 
avoided. He thinks if first direct had made the effort to discuss alternative repayment options, 
and perhaps allowed a lower repayment figure, even for a short period of time, court action 
could have been avoided. Hes said it is interesting that the court made an award of just 
£5.60 per month to first direct. And hes pointed out that first direct stopped collecting the 
£5.60 in more recently. He still thinks first directs poor approach has cost him thousands of 
pounds both directly and indirectly. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr Ms comments, but these dont change my view that it is very difficult to say 
that court action wouldnt have happened anyway. I appreciate the court awarded less than 
first direct would have been willing to accept if it had discussed the matter with Mr M. But this 
doesnt alter the fact that first direct would have been very unlikely to accept what Mr M was 
willing and able to pay. And part of the reason for the court action would have been so first 
direct could get some security for the debt, i.e. the charge against Mr Ms home. Neither 
does the fact that first direct has stopped collecting the £5.60 each month make me think it 
would have acted differently in 2008. It had its procedures in 2008 and, while it accepts it 
could have done better, I dont think that ultimately court action and the subsequent court 
order could have been avoided. I appreciate Mr M doesnt agree, but I have to base my 
decision on what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Putting things right
It therefore follows, that I still think compensation of £250 for the additional distress and 
inconvenience Mr M experienced because of first directs lack of engagement is appropriate. 
This means I think first direct paying Mr M a further £225 in compensation is the fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. This is on the basis it has already paid him £25. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first 
direct must pay Mr M a further £225 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman