DRN-2260530
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) have given him credit card 
facilities on five occasions without checking whether they were affordable. As a result, he fell 
into difficulties and entered a debt management plan.
What happened
Mr G applied for 5 credit cards with Capital One during the period January 2015  June 
2018. I have detailed these below in a table for ease. 
Date 
opened Credit 
limitInterest 
Rate First 
missed 
paymentDate 
defaultedAccount 
closed
Account 
1Jan 
2015£1000 30.34%
0% on 
balance 
transfersMarch 
2015
Account 
2Sept 
2015£200 26.4% October 
2015
Account 
3Nov  
2016£200 30.34% August 
2017
Account 
4May 
2017£200 31.1% August 
2018December 
2018
Account 
5June 
2018£200 34.08% September 
2018December 
2018
Mr G has made two complaints to Capital One stating that he doesnt think he should have 
been granted the credit facilities as he was already struggling, and the lending was not 
affordable for him. The first of these complaints concerns accounts one and two, and the 
second complaint concerns accounts three, four and five. 
Capital One have told us about the checks that they undertook prior to granting each credit 
facility and provided us with the documents that support those checks. They looked at the 
information that Mr G had provided on his applications about his income, and they also 
looked at his credit history in order to consider the affordability of the lending. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Gs complaint and decided that Capital One did 
undertake reasonable and proportionate checks before offering the credit facility and she did 
not uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr G disagrees with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld this complaint, and I will explain why below. 
In cases like this, where a consumer has raised an issue about affordability of the lending, I 
have to look at whether, at the time that the application was made, the lender completed 
borrower-focused checks which were reasonable and proportionate in accordance with the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 5.2 (before November 2018). The lender needed to 
be satisfied that the borrower could afford the credit and sustain the repayments. That 
includes looking at what information it asked for, and any other information that was  
available at the time, and whether there was anything that should have alerted the lender to 
a need to make any extra enquiries. In other word, was the decision to offer credit made 
reasonably and fairly and all appropriate information sought and considered? 
In this case, there were five lending decisions made at different times. I have taken into 
account the different circumstances at the time of each lending decision, but I have dealt 
with them holistically in the decision below.     
I can see from the information provided that Capital One made an assessment of 
affordability when they made each lending decision. They took into account Mr Gs declared 
income, and a report it obtained from a third party about his credit history. Mr Gs declared 
income varied between £26,000  £31,000 between January 2015 and June 2018 and his 
credit history picture also changed. 
At the times of the first two applications, in January 2015 and September 2015 Mr Gs credit 
history did not contain anything unusual or which I think would have indicated to Capital One 
that there was an issue with affordability when considering an application for a credit facility 
of £200. I therefore think the enquiries made were proportionate and the decision to offer a 
card in these circumstances was made responsibly. Both of these first two cards were paid 
off and closed within two months. 
At the times of the last three applications, there is a slightly different credit history. On 
viewing the history before each of these applications, Capital One would have seen that 
there was increased short term borrowing, and some delinquent accounts.  
Capital One have told us that they were aware of the changed credit history position, and 
this would have fed into their lending decision, but because the credit limits being offered 
were relatively low, they do not feel it was proportionate to ask for any additional information. 
I have considered this, and I think that there were indicators that Mr Gs financial picture was 
changing, that he was relying on more regular short term borrowing and had missed some 
payments on two of his loans. I consider that there were some indicators that Capital One 
should have asked some more questions about income and expenditure, but I also note that 
the level of lending was still very low at £200 on each occasion. I also note that Mr Gs credit 
report on each occasion indicated that he had repaid some of his loans in full, and in relation 
to applications 4 and 5 the report shows he was he was meeting repayments on all credit. 
I have also thought about what the overall impact of this lending was on Mr G. I have had the 
benefit of seeing Mr Gs bank statements for the period covering all of the lending, and I 
have looked at the pattern of his lending and repayments, and his spending. I cannot fairly 
say that the impact of this lending was the cause of any financial difficulties that Mr G experienced or that the increase in borrowing that Capital One authorised was unsustainable 
or harmful.     
I am therefore satisfied that Capital One have complied with their obligations in respect of 
their assessment of the affordability of these applications for credit cards. 
My final decision
My decision is that Capital One (Europe) plc do not need to take any action in the resolution 
of Mr Gs complaint.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman