DRN-4426565
The complaint
Mr H complains that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited (MICL) has unfairly handled a 
claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known between parties, so Ive summarised events.
In mid-2022 Mr H was involved in a car accident. He reported this to MICL, and it 
accepted a claim under the policy.
MICL says the third-party insurer (Company A) did not respond to its requests. So, 
the claim was recorded as a fault claim.
In October 2022 Company A informed MICL its customer was liable for the incident. 
A back and forth between insurers ensued.
Mr H says the fault claim on his record led to him losing his no claims bonus. And 
when taking insurance out in January 2023 with Company B, he says his premiums 
went up by approximately £600 as a result of the fault claim, and lack of no claims 
bonus.
Sometime after Mr H says he was contacted by MICL who sought to refund his 
excess and told him the third-party had accepted liability back in October 2022 so it 
no longer would be recorded as a fault claim. MICL apologised for not informing Mr H 
of the third partys admission of liability earlier. And it has paid him £150 in 
compensation to recognise this.
Mr H brought the complaint to this Service and one of our Investigators looked into 
what happened. She didnt uphold the complaint, saying the compensation awarded 
for the delay in informing him of the third partys admission was fair.
She said MICL had correctly recorded the claim as open, and a fault claim until the 
matter was closed. And while MICL couldve informed Mr H earlier than it did of the 
third partys admission of liability, this wouldnt have changed things as the matter 
was not settled until after hed taken the Company B policy out. So, she suggested 
he approach Company B to reconsider the premiums charged given his updated 
circumstances. 
Mr H responded to say his ongoing complaint with MICL was due to it not proactively 
seeking to close his claim. He said almost a year after liability was agreed, MICL had 
still recorded his claim as at fault on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange 
(CUE) database. He said Company B (his current insurer) wouldnt update his 
policy without a no claims certificate, a letter stating the claim was settled, closed and 
that the third-party had accepted liability. And that this wasnt possible as there was 
still an outstanding invoice from Company A. Mr H said this caused him great 
distress and anxiety due to the increased costs he would likely incur at renewal.
Since then, Mr H has raised additional concerns about MICLs agents from March 
2023 onwards. He says MICL has now cleared the outstanding debt of £135, which 
he says it shouldve written off earlier. He said car insurance prices have risen since 
January 2023 and that Company B has refused to offer him the prices that were 
available at that time.
The Investigator considered this, but it didnt change her mind. Mr H disagreed and 
requested the matter be considered by an Ombudsman, so the matter has been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
MICL has an obligation under ICOBS to provide its customers with appropriate information 
on the progress of a claim. In this case, through its own admission, it failed to update Mr H 
with the details about Company A admitting fault. I can understand why this would be 
frustrating to Mr H, as he was left uncertain for a prolonged period as to how the matter 
would be settled. MICL has apologised and paid Mr H £150 compensation for this, which I 
think was a fair sum in the circumstances for the frustration caused.
Mr H has raised concerns about the impact of MICLs record keeping. It is signed up to CUE, 
which requires insurers to record any incidents they are aware of and whether they lead to a 
claim. This allows insurers to share information for various purposes.
There doesnt appear to be a dispute that MICL initially recorded accurate data on the CUE 
database about the claim. That is to say that following the incident with Mr Hs vehicle, the 
third party didnt take responsibility for what happened. This meant an open claim was left on 
CUE. Im satisfied this was correct on MICLs part.
The crux of Mr Hs complaint is that delays and inaction on MICLs part meant the claim 
remained open much longer than it needed to be. And that either through better enforcement 
of the sum outstanding (£135) from Company A, or by simply writing the sum off, Mr Hs 
claim wouldve been closed earlier than it was and recording the other party at fault.
I understand Mr Hs frustration towards Company A for not settling matters promptly, as this 
has caused his situation to go on longer than it may have needed to. But from what Ive 
seen, MICL has kept the CUE record accurate. And a commercial decision to write off sums 
is not Mr Hs decision to make even if he felt this was the right step to take. So, Im not going 
to direct MICL to do anything further or pay any additional compensation in relation to this.
I understand this has now been paid and the CUE record updated. Mr H has indicated 
because the sum was less than his compensation (£150) that it shouldve done this earlier. 
But the compensation awarded to him was related to updates, not as a result of its record 
keeping. So, I dont agree the compensatory sum is material to its own decision making nor 
shouldve been.
Mr H has indicated Company B has agreed to provide a premium refund, but not to offer him 
the prices hed have had available earlier had MICL settled the matter when Company A 
admitted fault or shortly after. How Company B determines to handle such a request falls to 
it, and isnt something I would look to hold MICL responsible for.
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman