DRN-3926929
The complaint
Mr W complains that AJ Bell Securities Limited (AJB) told him that it would be able to 
arrange the in-specie transfer of his investments from his existing platform provider to AJB 
within two weeks. The investments were held across three accounts, a share dealing 
account, an ISA, and a Junior ISA.
It took over three months before the final transfer was completed. Mr W says the delays he 
experienced were caused by AJB. To put matters right he wants AJB to reimburse him for 
the £90,000 financial loss he says he has suffered as a result of being unable to trade while 
the transfer was being processed.
What happened
Mr W wanted to transfer investments held across three accounts from his previous 
investment platform provider to AJB.
It appears there was an avoidable delay of nearly three weeks on AJBs part. It received a 
valuation of Mr Ws investments from his previous platform provider on 6 May 2021, for his 
ISA and share dealing account, but it didnt contact Mr W to ask for his instructions on the 
rejected assets and to complete a W-8BEN form until 26 May 2021. 
There was then a further delay of over three weeks while AJB waited for Mr W to respond. 
Mr W provided AJB with his instructions on the rejected holdings on 10 June 2021, and he 
then provided a completed W-8BEN on 21 June 2021. 
ISA transfer
I understand that AJB first requested a valuation of the assets in Mr Ws ISA from his 
previous platform provider on 29 April 2021. All the assets AJB was able to hold were 
transferred and were available to trade in Mr Ws AJB ISA by 30 June 2021. 
Junior ISA 
I understand that AJB first received a transfer form from Mr Ws previous investment 
platform for the Junior ISA on 19 May 2021. It appears that the assets in the Junior ISA were 
sold before the in-specie transfer was completed. Its not clear from the records available 
when the assets were sold, but AJB have confirmed they received a cash valuation on 14 
July 2021, so it appears the assets were sold before this date. 
The cash held in the Junior ISA was then transferred to AJB and I understand that the cash 
arrived in the Junior ISA that had been set up with AJB on 30 July 2021. 
Share dealing account transfer
I understand that AJB first made a valuation request to Mr Ws previous investment platform 
provider on 30 April 2021, in respect of the investments held in his share dealing account. 
There were a number of assets involved in this transfer, including both shares and funds. 
The funds settled in Mr Ws AJB share dealing account on 8 July 2021, 14 July 2021, and 23 
July 2021 respectively. 
It appears there were delays in the transfer of the shares Mr W held in his share dealing 
account, but these delays appear to have been caused by Mr Ws previous investment 
platform provider, not AJB.
I understand that AJB proposed to the previous investment platform provider that all the 
shares held in Mr Ws share dealing account should be transferred to AJB on 30 June 2021. 
It is unclear why, but for whatever reason the previous investment platform didnt instruct the 
transfer. It then emailed AJB on 8 July 2021, and asked AJB to review the transfer by the 
end of the next business day. It appears that AJB didnt respond to this email within the 
timeframe. The transfer was then arranged for 26 July 2021 and the shares were allocated 
to Mr Ws AJB share dealing account on 28 July 2021. 
However, one shareholding was not transferred with this tranche of shares as there was a 
corporate action on this stock in late June 2021. This resulted in the shares being 
consolidated. As a result of the corporate action the number of shares to be transferred to 
AJB, their value and the identification number for the shares changed before the transfer 
was processed. The previous investment platform provider gave AJB the updated 
information for these shares on 8 July 2021, but it failed to provide a new valuation. As the 
valuation was no longer correct these shares wasnt included in the 28 July 2021 transfer.
AJB then contacted the previous investment platform provider again and arranged for these 
shares to be transferred. I understand that the shares were then transferred on 12 August 
2021. Mr W says these shares did not settle in his account until September 2021.
Mr W complained to AJB. He said he had been told that the in-specie transfer would take 
two weeks. He said he had lost around £90,000 as he had been unable to trade while the 
transfer was in progress.
AJB provided a detailed response. It noted that it had contacted Mr W by email on 26 May 
2021, asking him to complete a W-8BEN form and setting out that it would not be able to 
accept the transfer in of two of Mr Ws holdings. Mr W did not reply to AJB with his 
instructions regarding these holdings until 10 June 2021, he said he would sell one of the 
funds and he instructed AJB to convert the other fund holding. He did not provide a 
completed W-8BEN until 21 June 2021. AJB said it couldnt reasonably be held responsible 
for this delay.
It also noted that it had chased Mr Ws previous platform provider when it noticed that the 
funds that had been transferred had not settled in late June 2021. And it said it did not think 
it could reasonably be held responsible for the delay in transferring the stock that had been 
subject to a corporate action.
It also responded to Mr Ws claim that an AJB representative had told him both verbally and 
in writing that the transfer would be completed on 24 June 2021. AJB said it had reviewed its 
call recordings and it was satisfied Mr W had not been given any such assurance. It said an 
email sent to Mr W in late June had said AJB had issued its acceptance for the fund 
transfers to Mr Ws previous platform provider on 24 June 2021, and the email had noted 
that it had not received a response to its acceptance.
It did accept however, that it should have contacted Mr W more promptly about the rejected 
assets and the W-8BEN as it was nearly three weeks after it had received the valuation of 
Mr Ws assets before it contacted him. To put matters right it offered to pay Mr W £400 for 
this delay on AJBs part.Mr W did not accept AJBs response and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator said that having reviewed the evidence and information available, he 
thought the offer AJB had made was fair in the circumstances of this complaint. He said he 
was satisfied that two of the three transfers were completed within AJBs usual timeframes, 
and although the third exceeded the timeframe, the delay wasnt caused by AJB. 
Mr W did not accept our investigators view. He provided a detailed response and additional 
information. In particular he said:
My serious concern was the length of time for transferring, cash, shares & funds. In AJBs 
written information and literature online AJB stated, 2-4 weeks for cash, 4-6 weeks for 
shares and 6-8 weeks for funds. I would not transfer my investments with periods of 6-8 
weeks and stated that to [name of AJB employee]. Over 90% of my investments were 
invested in British funds which I was assured by [name of AJB employee] would be a 
straightforward transfer in two weeks. The funds would retain the same titles, but just a 
different Investment company
During our conversations I emphasised the amount invested and [name of AJB employee] 
assured me that the transfer would only take two weeks maximum. My main factor and 
concerns were that I would be unable to trade on my funds, sell or buy for the two-week 
assured transfer period. In effect I could not earn an income but more importantly the funds 
could drop significantly and I would be unable to sell and potentially lose capital from my ISA 
and Dealing account until the transfer was completed.
I asked [name of AJB employee] if it would be prudent to cash my entire funds in the ISA 
and Dealing account and transfer as cash to AJB due to Cash only 2-4 weeks and securing 
the sold price, therefore not being concerned for any pending drops and unnecessary 
concerns due to being unable to access my accounts. [name of AJB employee] assured me 
once again that the transfer "would only take a couple of weeks". So, on that advice I 
initiated the transfer of ALL my funds including my son's JISA over to AJB.
Mr W also said:
As stated in previous correspondence to AJB and the ombudsman, I informed AJB that I 
needed to access my two accounts so that I could sell my funds before the end of June 2021 
due to the expected fall in the US market. I expressed this importance numerous times to 
AJB.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has made detailed submissions to this service in connection with this complaint. I have 
read and listened to all the information Mr W and AJB have provided, and I have taken it into 
account when determining this complaint. 
However, I have not addressed every point Mr W has raised in this decision. We are an 
informal dispute resolution service, and I am not required to address every point raised. I 
have instead focussed on what I consider to be the crux of Mr Ws complaint. I trust that Mr 
W will not find this a discourtesy.
two week transferIn his response to our investigators view Mr W said he wanted this service to request call 
recordings from AJB as he felt they would evidence that he was assured that the transfer 
would only take two weeks maximum. I have listened to the call recordings provided by AJB 
(and the call recordings provided by Mr W). Having done so, I have not been able to find 
anything that supports Mr Ws recollection that he was told the in-specie transfer would only 
take two weeks maximum.
In the conversation Mr W had with AJB on 29 April 2021, before he submitted his application 
to transfer his investments to AJB, Mr W asked how long the process would take and 
whether it would be possible to speed the process up. The AJB employee he spoke to told 
him; We are at the mercy of the counterparty. We are reliant on them sending the assets 
and cash to us. She also directed Mr W to AJBs website for more information and to start 
the transfer process.
Mr W then said; I need to move sharpish on this do you think this can be done in the next 
couple of weeks? Again, the AJB employee did not offer any guarantee or assurance that 
the transfer could be carried out within a specific time, and she explained that the length of 
time for the transfer to be completed would depend on the investments Mr W wanted to 
transfer. 
In his response to our investigators view Mr W said he  asked [name of AJB employee] if 
it would be prudent to cash my entire funds in the ISA and Dealing account and transfer as 
cash to AJB due to Cash only 2-4 weeks and securing the sold price, therefore not being 
concerned for any pending drops and unnecessary concerns due to being unable to access 
my accounts. [name of AJB employee] assured me once again that the transfer "would only 
take a couple of weeks".
There was no discussion in the call recording from 29 April 2021, that has been provided to 
this service about whether Mr W should encash his holdings and then instruct a transfer of 
the cash. The only reference to this in the call was Mr W telling the AJB representative I 
dont want to lose anything. I just want to move A to B, so nothing is cashed. The AJB 
employee explained this was called an in-specie transfer. 
Having very carefully considered this matter, I have not been provided with anything that 
supports Mr Ws recollection that he was told an in-specie transfer of his investments would 
be completed within two weeks. Nor have I been provided with anything that supports Mr 
Ws recollection that he discussed encashing his investments and transferring the cash to 
AJB, or that he was advised by AJB not to encash his investments.
I note that in his response to our investigators view Mr W has provided an extract from 
AJBs website that sets out how long transfers typically take. It said:
 To give you a better idea of how long your transfer will take, heres how long each type of 
investment typically takes to transfer. 
And it set out a time scale of 2-4 weeks for cash transfers, 4-6 weeks for shares, 6-8 weeks 
for funds, and 10-12 weeks for international shares. 
I havent seen anything that shows or suggests that AJB provided any guarantee that a 
transfer of either cash or stock would be completed within a specific time scale. Nor would I 
expect a business to provide any such guarantee. As AJB explained to Mr W, it needed to 
work with the business the cash or stock was being transferred from and it didnt have the 
power to order another business to respond by a certain date. I think the extract Mr W has 
provided makes clear that the timescales set out were not guaranteed.In the absence of anything to support Mr Ws claim that AJB gave him assurances that the 
transfer would be completed within two weeks, I cannot reasonably uphold this aspect of his 
complaint.
I note that Mr W also says that AJB told him the transfer had been completed on 24 June 
2021. Again, I have not been provided with anything that would support this claim. The 
records I have seen say that AJB had issued its acceptance for the fund transfers to Mr Ws 
previous platform provider on 24 June 2021 and noted that it had not received a response to 
its acceptance.
Delays in the transfer process
As I have set out, based on the evidence I have been provided with, I am satisfied that Mr W 
wanted to transfer his investments in-specie. An in-specie transfer allowed Mr W to remain 
invested throughout the transfer process.
However, with in-specie transfers there is always the risk that the asset values fall during the 
transfer. If the value falls by more than the cost involved in selling and then buying back the 
investments (after the cash has been transferred to the new platform provider) then the 
investor would have been better off encashing their holdings. It is usually only with the 
benefit of hindsight that it is possible to say whether it would have been better to encash the 
holdings or transfer them in-specie.
It is not in dispute that AJB did not contact Mr W about the rejected funds until nearly three 
weeks after it had received the valuations from his previous platform provider. AJB has not 
explained why, despite having received the valuations on 6 May 2021, it didnt contact Mr W 
requesting the W-8BEN and asking for instructions regarding the rejected funds until 26 May 
2021. It has offered to pay Mr W a total of £400 for this poor service on its part.
However, I am mindful that Mr W did not respond to AJB until 10 June 2021, with his 
instructions regarding the rejected funds and only completed the W-8BEN form on 21 June 
2021, after AJB had sent him a reminder on 19 June. This also resulted in a delay of over 
three weeks. Mr W has not made any submissions on this delay, so its not clear to me why 
he didnt respond promptly to AJB. As Mr W did not return the W-8BEN until 21 June 2021, I 
dont think he could reasonably have expected the transfer of his holdings to have been 
completed by late June 2021.
Once AJB received the information from Mr W it promptly issued its acceptance of his assets 
on 24 June 2021. On 29 June 2021, it chased Mr Ws previous investment platform provider 
for settlement of his funds. In view of this I am satisfied that once it had received the 
necessary instructions and form from Mr W, AJB acted promptly to process the transfer.
I am mindful that Mr W has said that: 
Due to the long-extended delays of the transfers and settlement in both accounts especially 
the dealing account I incurred huge financial losses 
Being unable to trade in the 6 different Shares holdings until September especially [name 
of shareholding] from April to September I could not trade which invariably incurred by a high 
financial loss. 
Due to these long-extended delays, I was unable to trade and therefore could not make any 
profit on my investments from April to September and incurred further losses due to the 
Dealing account and shares not being settled in the times stated and the promises made by 
the [name of AJB employee].I am mindful of the points Mr W has made, but it is often possible to trade even after an in-
specie transfer has been requested. 
As long as the investments are not in the process of being re-registered most providers will 
allow clients to trade during the transfer. If Mr W had wanted to sell holdings during the 
transfer period it is not clear to me why he didnt contact his previous platform provider to 
see if this would be possible. 
I note that Mr W has said that he informed AJB that I needed to access my two accounts 
so that I could sell my funds before the end of June 2021 due to the expected fall in the US 
market. I expressed this importance numerous times to AJB. 
If Mr W had wanted to sell holdings before the end of June 2021 I think he ought 
reasonably to have instructed his previous platform provider to ring fence these investments, 
so that they were not part of the initial in-specie transfer. Mr W would then have been free to 
sell them when he deemed it appropriate and transfer the cash to AJB at a later date. 
summary
I appreciate that Mr W feels that transferring his investments in-specie should have been 
straightforward, but the process involves a number of steps and possible delays including 
delays on the part of the previous platform provider providing information to AJB. In addition, 
each investment needed to be re-registered to Mr Ws new account with AJB. 
I accept that AJB caused a delay of nearly three weeks when it failed to contact Mr W 
promptly about the rejected holdings, but I am mindful that it then took Mr W over three 
weeks to provide AJB with his instructions for the rejected holdings and the W-8BEN it had 
requested.
Although I am sympathetic to Mr Ws position, I have not seen anything that supports his 
claim that AJB told him an in-specie transfer would take two weeks. I note that Mr W says:
If I thought or knew the process took more than 2 weeks, I would have sold my entire holding 
as cash so that it could transfer in "2-4 weeks"
It is very unfortunate that Mr W did not seek more information on in-specie transfers before 
instructing AJB, had he done so it appears Mr W may well have chosen to encash his 
holdings. But I cant reasonably hold AJB responsible for any misunderstanding on Mr Ws 
part about the length of time in-specie transfers might take, or the process involved. 
Having carefully considered this complaint I am satisfied that, although some of the transfers 
took longer than the timescale set out on AJBs website, no guarantee was provided to Mr W 
that the transfers would be completed within a specific time frame.
I think the offer AJB has made to pay Mr W £400 for the delay in contacting him about the 
rejected investments and W-8BEN is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I think the offer AJ Bell Securities 
Limited has made to pay Mr W £400 for the delay in contacting him about the rejected 
holdings is fair. I dont think it needs to do any more to resolve this matter. I simply leave it to 
Mr W to decide if he now wishes to accept this offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman