DRN-4083984
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the early repayment charge (ERC) Santander UK plc applied 
when they repaid their mortgage. They say the ERC is excessive and unfair, and not 
reflective of Santanders losses as a result of their early repayment.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out their mortgage with Santander in March 2018. They borrowed 
£306,000 on a capital and interest repayment basis, at a fixed interest rate of 2.74% until 2 
April 2023.
The mortgage was subject to an ERC of 5% of the amount repaid if full repayment was 
made before 2 April 2023. Mr and Mrs M repaid the mortgage in February 2022 and incurred 
an ERC of more than £13,000. They complained that the ERC was excessive and not in line 
with the amount of interest payments Santander had lost out on as a result of their repaying 
the mortgage early, which they calculated to be closer to £8,000.
Santander said the ERC didnt represent lost profit, but was based on its costs as a result of 
early repayment of the mortgage. It also said the ERC had been applied in line with the 
mortgage terms Mr and Mrs M had agreed to. It wouldnt refund the ERC. 
Our Investigator concluded that Santander had applied the ERC fairly, in line with its 
mortgage contract with Mr and Mrs M and the relevant regulatory rules. She didnt 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept that conclusion and asked for an Ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the Investigator.
Im satisfied that the ERC, including the circumstances in which it would be payable and the 
basis on which it would be calculated, was set out clearly in the mortgage offer Santander 
issued to Mr and Mrs M on 20 January 2018. It was 5% of the amount repaid if the mortgage 
was repaid in full during the five-year fixed interest rate period. The offer document also 
included cash examples of how much would be payable if repayment took place on different 
dates. 
An ERC isnt intended to be a penalty for the borrower. There are costs to a lender when a 
mortgage is repaid early. Those costs are not just the interest lost because the lender will no 
longer receive interest payments once a mortgage is repaid. Theres a cost to the lender in 
raising the money to lend in the first place and in holding adequate capital, and if interest 
rates rise before the fixed rate period ends, the lender may incur further costs. Its common 
practice for lenders to include provision in mortgage contracts to recover their costs, in the 
form of an ERC.
As our Investigator explained, its a regulatory requirement that an ERC be a reasonable 
pre-estimate of the cost to the lender of settling the mortgage early. That cost can be 
calculated across a tranche of mortgages rather than individually.
The Investigator asked Santander to provide information about its costs, in order to 
understand why it set the ERC it required Mr and Mrs M to pay at the level it did. Santander 
provided, in confidence, its calculations of the pre-estimate of its costs for a five-year 
mortgage product. It also explained that its calculations were made across a portfolio of 
mortgages rather than for each individual mortgage, and werent therefore a true reflection of 
the actual cost of early settlement for Mr and Mrs Ms specific mortgage. 
Ive looked carefully at all of this information, alongside Santanders methodology and 
explanations, and I think it has calculated the ERC it charged Mr and Mrs M fairly. I should 
add that the details of Santanders underlying costs and calculations are commercially 
sensitive, so it was reasonable for Santander to have submitted them in confidence. Our 
rules provide for this, and it means we wont share this information with Mr and Mrs M. 
The ERC Mr and Mrs M paid was 5% of their mortgage balance at redemption. An ERC at 
that level wasnt out of line with other lenders in the mortgage industry and, while I note Mr 
and Mrs Ms strength of feeling, I dont find I can fairly require Santander to refund all or part 
of it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman