DRN-4276908
The complaint
Mrs A in unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) handled 
her request to add a temporary driver to her motor insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here:
On 5 December 2022 Mrs A contacted Admiral to enquire about adding her daughter 
to her motor policy.
There was a discussion in which comparisons with adding the named driver for the 
remaining term of the policy (until March 2023) or on a temporary 30 day basis. Mrs 
A decided to add her daughter on a temporary basis for 30 days. 
Admiral say they explained the costs and that the additional premium would be 
collected over the remaining payment instalments. 
On 3 January 2023 Mrs A contacted Admiral to continue to insure her daughter under 
the policy. 
Admiral say they explained the costs of doing this on both a 30 day temporary basis 
and for the remaining term of the policy. And how the remaining instalments would be 
impacted. 
After some discussion, in which Mrs A expressed dissatisfaction with the costs, she 
requested a further 30 days temporary cover for her daughter. 
In February 2023 Mrs A contacted Admiral advising was unhappy with the monthly 
instalments, and shed been overcharged for the second period of temporary cover, 
and she no longer needed cover for her daughter. She felt the monthly instalments 
should reduce to reflect the fact that her daughter was no longer covered by the 
policy. 
Admiral say its agents had explained the costs of temporarily adding her daughter 
would be spread over the remaining instalments and it had charged the correct 
premiums.
Our investigator felt Admiral had acted fairly. He was satisfied Admiral had explained 
the cost of adding her daughter and made it clear the cost would be spread over the 
remaining monthly instalments.
Mrs A remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide her case.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
Ive listened to the call made on 5 December 2022 and the call handler gives very clear 
explanation of the options available and the cost of adding Mrs As daughter. And, 
importantly, that the costs would be spread over the remaining 3 instalments. 
Ive also listened to both calls on the 3 January 2023. In the first call Mrs As daughter calls 
Admiral herself. When the call handler realised she wasnt the policyholder he requested to 
speak with Mrs A who then took over the call. There were some line issues during this call 
and Admiral called Mrs A back to continue the discussion.
 
During the calls on 3 January Mrs A expressed her shock at the costs, describing it as a rip 
off and that the cost for a second 30 day period of temporary cover was significantly more 
than it had been for the initial period in December. In her submissions Mrs A says she 
refused to continue but Admiral went ahead and charged her. However, having listened to 
the call Im satisfied she requested Admiral add her daughter to the policy for a further 30 
days.
Having listened to the call I find the cost for the second 30 day period is similar to the cost of 
the initial period of temporary cover for her daughter. However, there is a significant 
difference in the monthly instalments. The cost for the initial temporary cover for her 
daughter is spread over 3 instalments i.e. December, January and February. The costs for 
the second period of cover are only spread over 2 instalments i.e. January and February. 
And the January and February instalments include a proportion of the costs for the 
December cover as well as the cover arranged in January.
Im not persuaded Admiral has done anything wrong and find it acted fairly and reasonably in 
its dealings with Mrs A.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman