DRN-3468678
The complaint
Mr P complains that Scottish Equitable plc trading as Aegon changed the arrangements for 
management of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) in a way which locked him out of 
being able to switch funds himself.
What happened
Mr P had a pension with Aegon. He says that in the period between 2014 and 2017 he 
managed the account himself and was able to switch funds. In 2017 he says that Aegon 
changed the arrangements by transferring his pension to its Aegon Retirement Choices 
(ARC) SIPP platform. He says it did this without his consent. 
Mr P says that the changes meant he was no longer able to switch funds himself. He 
believes that part of the reason for this was because Aegon marked his account as IFA 
(independent financial adviser) only. He says he had always managed the account himself 
and had asked Aegon on numerous occasions to remove the IFA marker on his account. 
Because of the changes, Mr P says he was locked out of his account for four years and hes 
been unable to invest in the way he wanted to. He says hes lost out on investment growth 
as a result of what happened.
Mr P complained to Aegon.
Aegon looked into his complaint. It said it had written to Mr P in November 2017 to explain 
the changes it proposed to make to his pension. It sent him a further letter to remind him that 
if he didnt want the changes to go ahead he should contact it. The changes to Mr Ps SIPP 
were completed in March 2018 and he was sent a further letter at that time. Mr P didnt 
contact Aegon until October 2018. He requested online access at that time and Aegon sent 
him log on details and further copies of the letters it had sent him about the changes. Mr P 
did not activate his online access until 2021.
Aegon said that Mr P asked for the IFA to be removed from his account on 31 August 2021 
and it complied with this instruction on 7 September 2021. Aegon denied that Mr P had been 
locked out of his account. It acknowledged there had been delays responding to his 
complaint and it sent him £100 in gift vouchers by way of apology.
Mr P referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into his complaint. She 
said that Aegon was able to make commercial decisions to upgrade a pension plan. We 
would look at whether it had acted fairly when it did that. She noted that Aegon had sent 
various letters to Mr P - all of which were correctly addressed. He hadnt responded. There 
was also no evidence that Mr P had contacted Aegon to make any investment choices or 
asked it for a fund switch. When he had contacted Aegon in 2021 about these matters, 
Aegon had complied with his instructions.
Mr P did not agree with what our investigator said. He said there hadnt been any upgrade 
of his pension. In fact, hed been locked out of his pension fund and couldnt switch funds  
something he says hed been able to do in the period prior to 2017. Even after hed been 
sent log on details, he still wasnt permitted to switch funds because Aegon had incorrectly 
marked his account as IFA only.  Aegon had refused to remove the IFA  despite repeated 
requests he made over several years. Mr P also said hed not received any of the letters 
Aegon said it had sent to him. 
Our investigator didnt change her view. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id just point out at the outset that in this decision I will only be considering the events which 
were the subject of Mr Ps original complaint to Aegon. So, although Mr P has told us about 
difficulties hes experienced recently when trying to log on to his account with Aegon, hell 
need to raise these concerns separately with Aegon first. 
Ive looked firstly at the changes made to Mr Ps pension in 2018. Details of the proposed 
changes were set out in correspondence from Aegon addressed to Mr P dated 2 November 
2017 and 23 November 2017. When the transfer to the new ARC platform were completed a 
further letter was sent dated 12 March 2018.
Mr P says he didnt receive any of this correspondence. I can see that each of the letters 
was correctly addressed to him, so Im persuaded, on balance its likely he did receive at 
least one of the letters. It is also the case that he contacted Aegon in October 2018 asking it 
to grant him online access to his account and also requesting copies of the previous 
correspondence. Aegon sent copies of the correspondence to him again at that time. It also 
sent him an email setting out details of how to activate his online account. So, theres no 
dispute that he received this information in October 2018.
Ive considered the correspondence about the changes which was sent to Mr P. It clearly set 
out what the changes were and explained that if Mr P didnt agree to the changes he could 
ask Aegon not to proceed. And Ive noted that in its correspondence Aegon also said that if, 
after the changes were made, Mr P decided it wasnt right for him, he had the option to ask 
Aegon to move his pension back to the previous arrangement. So, Mr P had until 12 March 
2019 to make that request. And, even though, as mentioned above theres no dispute that 
he received all of the correspondence again in October 2018, he didnt ask Aegon at that 
time to move his pension back to the previous arrangement.
Aegon sent Mr P details about how to activate his online account on the new platform on 2 
November 2018. Theres no evidence that Mr P tried to log on or activate his account at that 
time. Theres also no evidence that he contacted Aegon to say that he was experiencing 
difficulties accessing his account. It wasnt until March 2021 that he contacted Aegon again. 
He didnt raise any queries about online access at that time. His queries related only to the 
rules which applied if he wanted to make withdrawals from his pension and what the 
applicable charges would be. 
Mr P has told us that he was locked out of his account after the move to ARC. He says he 
was able to switch funds himself in the period prior to that date. And I can see that he did do 
that on several occasions  with the last switch instruction having been given in May 2015. 
He says, because of the changes made by Aegon, he wasnt able to instruct any further 
switches himself until September 2021.
Mr P says that none of the correspondence had informed him that after the changes in 
March 2018, he would not be able to switch funds himself. The terms and conditions for ARC (referenced by a link in the letter sent on 2 November 
2017) did state that where there was an IFA, instructions could only be accepted from Mr P 
himself if the IFA authorised this. Mr P could also ask Aegon to remove the IFA if he so 
wished - and he would then be able to authorise switches himself. Ive also noted that Aegon 
stated in its letters dated 2 November and 23 November 2017 that a financial adviser was 
marked on the account and provided the name of that adviser  so this was something that 
Mr P wouldve been aware of. The letters also stated that the IFA had been sent copies of 
the correspondence.
Having considered the correspondence, I agree that the specific change about the need for 
the IFA to re-authorise Mr P to be able to switch funds was not highlighted in the Important 
changes affecting your pension plan document sent with the letters in November 2017. So, 
Ive thought about whether that was the reason why Mr P hasnt switched funds in his 
account since the transfer to the ARC platform was completed. Having done so, Im not 
persuaded, on balance that that was the reason why he didnt switch funds. Ill explain why.
If Mr P wanted to issue further instructions to switch funds in his account, I would have 
expected him to contact Aegon as soon as he realised he wasnt able to do that. As 
mentioned above, he had been sent log on details in November 2018. But theres no 
evidence that he contacted Aegon to express his dissatisfaction about not being able to 
switch funds until around July 2021 (some six years after he had previously instructed any 
switch to the funds in his pension). So, I dont think Aegon acted unfairly or unreasonably 
regarding this matter, in the period prior to July 2021, when it hadnt been made aware that 
Mr P wanted to switch funds but wasnt able to do so himself.
A new password was sent to Mr P, after he requested it, on 21 July 2021. It became 
apparent to him that he couldnt switch funds himself because his account had been flagged 
as having an IFA (independent financial adviser). 
There appears to have been several conversations with Aegon in the period after 21 July 
2021 and Mr P formally requested that the IFA flag should be removed from his account on 
31 August 2021. Aegon removed the flag on 7 September 2021 and on 10 September 2021 
Mr P was able to instruct fund switches himself. 
Mr P says he asked Aegon on numerous occasions prior to July 2021 to remove the IFA 
from his account. But, I havent seen any evidence to support this. He did query, in October 
2018, whether the IFA was receiving any ongoing commission as he hadnt received any 
advice for over five years. But he didnt ask for the IFA to be removed from his account until 
31 August 2021.
So, although there was a delay, after July 2021, resolving the issues Mr P was experiencing, 
it is the case that these problems couldve have been resolved much earlier if Mr P had 
raised the matter after the transfer to the ARC platform in 2018. And I think its likely he 
wouldve done that if he had been trying to switch funds during that period. Having 
considered everything, Im not persuaded, on balance, its fair or reasonable to say that 
Aegon should be held responsible because Mr P wasnt able to switch funds himself until 
September 2021.
Aegon has acknowledged there were delays responding to Mr Ps complaint. Under the rules 
which apply to our service, we cannot look into complaints which are solely about how a 
business handled a complaint. Thats because complaint handling is not itself a regulated 
activity. It means I cant tell Aegon what to do in this respect, although I note it has already 
sent Mr P £100 in gift vouchers by way of apology.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Scottish Equitable plc 
trading as Aegon.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman