DRN-3039923
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund payments she didnt authorise.
What happened
On 16 July 2020, Miss T received a text that appeared to be from Monzo telling her to expect 
a call about suspicious activity on her account. She later received this call and has recalled 
that:  
They went through transactions that she did and didnt make. 
She was asked for her PIN to verify her identity.
They asked her to move money from a different account to her Monzo account, so 
they could transfer it back to see if the account was OK or if she needed a new one. 
She was told to delete her Monzo app and check back in later, so her account could 
be secured. 
The next day, Miss T reported that money had been taken from her account. Monzo declined 
to refund this because they didnt think shed done enough to keep her PIN safe. 
The complaint has come to me for a final decision. For ease, Ive included a timeline of the 
relevant events from 16 July: 
5.25pm Miss T was sent the text that appeared to be from Monzo. 
5.40pm Monzo sent an email to Miss T, with a link to log into her Monzo account. 
5.41pm The log-in email was forwarded from Miss Ts email account to a monzoteam 
address.
5.42pm An iOS device was used to access Miss Ts Monzo account. 
5.43pm An Android device was used to access Miss Ts Monzo account, which continued 
until 5.50pm. 
5.43pm Miss Ts screenshot of an incoming call from No Caller ID 
5.46pm A faster payment was sent to a third party for £360. 
5.48pm £1 was received from Miss Ts account with another bank. 
5.48pm £400 was received from Miss Ts account with another bank.
5.49pm £1 was sent to Miss Ts account with another bank.
5.49pm A faster payment was sent to a third party for £400. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
How the scam unfolded 
Before I come to the key considerations that apply to this case, Ive noted Monzos concerns 
and confusion with how this scam unfolded. It appears these boil down to two things: how 
the email with the log-in link was forwarded to the fraudsters; and how this was sent before 
the call with the fraudster. 
I cant say for certain what happened. But all civil disputes, like this one, are decided on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Miss T denied sharing any log-in emails. But there were two emails stored in her trash: one 
from Monzo with the link and another from Miss T to monzoteam@consultant.com that 
forwarded Monzos email. 
Im not persuaded someone hacked Miss Ts email account. The screenshots provided dont 
show that anyone else had access. And if they did, they wouldnt have needed to forward 
Monzos email. They couldve just clicked on the link. So I think its more likely than not that 
Miss T forwarded Monzos email to the fraudster.
Monzo are concerned she tried to hide this from them. I share their concerns. But Im mindful 
that victims of scams arent always entirely open with what happened  often down to 
embarrassment. And here, even treating Miss Ts testimony with caution, theres evidence to 
support what shes said. Weve screenshots of the spoofed text message and call; an email 
shared to someone purporting to be Monzo, at an address thats been used in other scams; 
and funds went to an account which was emptied straightaway. So Im satisfied that Miss T 
was a victim of a scam. And I think this came about because she was trying to show what 
happened in a better light.
Monzo have also questioned how the email link was sent before the call took place. Our 
investigator set out why they thought there was another call before, and I broadly agree with 
those reasons. Miss T recalled getting a call five minutes later, whereas the record we have 
is nearly 20 minutes later. While the screenshot looks like there was one call, my 
understanding is that multiple calls wouldnt appear when the number is withheld  that 
would be a separate record. 
In saying that, I appreciate Miss T said there was just one call. But I also note that Monzo 
didnt probe her on this. And Im satisfied this is a plausible, persuasive explanation. The flip 
side is that there wasnt a call and Miss T has engineered a situation to make it look like she 
was scammed. I accept its possible, but given the rest of the evidence Ive described, Im 
not persuaded that its more likely. 
Ive kept these points in mind while deciding the case. 
Did Miss T authorise the transactions? In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss T isnt liable for payments 
she didnt authorise, unless she failed with intent or gross negligence to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep their personalised security details safe. 
 
Ive considered whether Miss T authorised these transactions  and so, in line with the 
PSRs, whether she gave her consent to make the payments, using the form and procedure 
that was agreed with Monzo. Or, whether she gave someone else permission to consent to 
these payments on their behalf.  
 
Ive reviewed the accounts terms and conditions to see how it was agreed for payments to 
be made. For those in place at the time, theres a link how to make different payments. This 
link says that to send money, you need to tap the Payments icon in the menu bar  and that 
youll need the recipients name, their account number and their sort code.  
Ive thought about whether Miss T took any of these steps. Miss T explained she has an 
iPhone, which matches Monzos data of the device that was used before this happened. 
Whereas the payments made on 16 July came from an Android device that hadnt been 
used before. 
So Im not satisfied that Miss T used the form and procedure that was agreed to consent to 
the payments. 
Im also not satisfied she gave permission for someone else to consent to the payments on 
her behalf. In saying that, Ive thought carefully about Miss Ts recollection that she had to 
send money from another account to her Monzo account, which theyd send back to check 
everything was OK. But Im not persuaded that meant she understood and, therefore, 
allowed someone else to access her account and make faster payments using the form and 
procedure Ive set out. Instead, it seems this was a ploy to get her to top up her account and 
she thought money would be returned internally by her bank. 
So, in all, I dont think Miss T used the form and procedure to consent to these payments, 
and I dont think she gave someone else permission to consent to payments on her behalf. It 
follows that the payments were unauthorised. 
Did Miss T fail with intent or gross negligence to keep her personalised security details safe 
or the 
I dont think Miss T intentionally failed to keep her details safe. I accept that what she was 
doing was because shed been alerted to suspicious activity on her account.  
Im also not satisfied Miss T failed with gross negligence. She received a text that appeared 
to be from Monzo alerting her to suspicious activity on her account and to expect a call. So 
when she received that call, I can see how she felt comfortable that she was speaking with 
her bank. Particularly as it seems that they knew details about her and went through a 
process  checking what transactions she made  that felt familiar to her.     
As part of verifying her, they asked for her PIN. Miss T said this didnt alarm her at the time 
because the PIN is what Monzo generally use for security  they dont have other things like 
passwords or memorable information. So, in the moment, I can see how she thought that it 
was part of telephone security. Alongside her trust in who she was speaking to, I dont think 
it meant she fell far below what a reasonable person wouldve done. 
Ive set out earlier in the decision why I think Miss T did forward Monzos email with the log-
in link. Because Miss T has denied this, its difficult to know what happened. But we know from the text message that the premise of the scam related to suspicious activity on the 
account. And our experience dealing with similar scams shows that victims are often 
coached into sharing information for verification or as part of protecting their account. I 
think its likely thats what happened here. And given the circumstances  that Miss T 
believed this was her genuine bank trying to help her and that her account wasnt secure  I 
can see why she followed their instructions. Im not persuaded she was significantly careless 
for doing so. 
In saying this, Ive seen theres a warning in the email not to share it with anyone, including 
Monzo. But it looks like Miss T was acting quickly  the email was forwarded one minute 
after it was received. So I can see how she may have missed this  and focused more on 
the instructions she was given from someone she thought was trying to help. I dont think it 
meant Miss T seriously disregarded an obvious risk. Indeed, weve seen many others who 
have acted in the same way she did. 
Monzo have also highlighted the length of the call, and that they dont think its long enough 
to establish trust. Ive explained why I think there was another call. But even if I thought 
differently, Im not convinced it would change things. Afterall, a key component of Miss Ts 
trust rested on how the fraudsters cleverly sent a text message that looked legitimate telling 
her to expect a call. That meant this wasnt a cold call in Miss Ts eyes, which might have 
raised more suspicion  and that the caller was working from a position of trust, as opposed 
to having to build it. 
Taking this all into account, I dont think Miss T failed with gross negligence. So, in line with 
the PSRs, I conclude that she isnt liable for the transactions. 
Putting things right
In deciding how to put things right, I have reflected on my concerns that Miss T wasnt as 
open as she ought to have been with Monzo about how this unfolded  and whether that 
should impact the money that is returned. But my findings have explained that, even if shed 
been forthcoming with the details, Im persuaded she wouldnt be liable under the PSRs. So I 
dont think its led to her gaining anything she wouldnt have otherwise fairly been entitled to. 
It follows that its not changed my award to reimburse the transactions. 
Monzo should, therefore, refund the disputed transactions (totalling £760) less any amount 
recovered. It should add 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the date of loss to 
the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Miss T said she took out a payday loan because of these losses, but shes not provided 
further details. So Im satisfied that 8% interest is a fair way to compensate Miss T for the 
time shes been out of pocket. 
Monzo shouldve refunded this sooner, which meant Miss T was very stressed and worried 
about how shed afford to live. Although I acknowledge that Monzos investigation was made 
harder by Miss Ts responses. Taking this all into account, I think Monzo should also pay 
£100 to reflect her non-financial losses. 
Monzo also offered to refund £4, the balance of Miss Ts account when it was closed, plus 
£25 for not doing it sooner. Miss T didnt bring a complaint about this to our service, so it 
doesnt form part of my award. Miss T should contact Monzo separately if she wishes to 
pursue that. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ts complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd must settle the 
complaint in the way Ive set out under Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman