DRN-3271502
The complaint
The estate of Mr J (The estate) complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc took two months to
release Mr Js savings and they made many errors.
What happened
The estate informed Bank of Ireland of Mr Js passing. On 5 October 2020, the estate wrote
to Bank of Ireland and enclosed a copy of the death certificate which they say had been
certified by a solicitor. This was originally accepted by Bank of Ireland and they sent the
estate a deed of indemnity to be completed.
The estate contacted Bank of Ireland as they said they hadnt heard from them for a while.
Bank of Ireland said that they were unable to accept the certified death certificate as the
person who had signed the certificate had not printed their name and therefore, they were
unable to verify the name of the person who signed the death certificate.
The estate said that Bank of Ireland hadnt stated anywhere what they require on a certified
death certificate. One of the executors confirmed with Bank of Ireland the name of the
person who certified the death certificate and Bank of Ireland then agreed to accept the
document. The accounts were then closed on 5 November 2020.
The estate complained to Bank of Ireland, who upheld their complaint. Bank of Ireland
confirmed that the estate had been caught in the middle of an internal process and
apologised for the level of service they had given. Bank of Ireland offered a total
compensation of £100, of which £10 was for phone calls and £90 was for the level of service
they gave to the estate.
The estate wrote back to Bank of Ireland and said that they did not address all of their
complaint points such as there was nowhere documented how a document needed to be
certified. They asked why nobody contacted them or the solicitor to find out who certified the
death certificate. They also said that when one of the executors rang Bank of Ireland on 3
November 2020, the call handler told her that she was not an executor and wouldnt speak
to her and she had to battle to explain to him where to find her information on the documents
she had sent to them which caused her stress.
Bank of Ireland responded, thanking the estate for bringing these further points to their
attention and apologised for the service given. They said they had passed the estates
comments to the relevant departments, but they felt the compensation they offered in the
final response letter was fair and reasonable for the poor customer service.
The estate brought their complaint to our service. They said Bank of Ireland hadnt
addressed their points. They also said that Bank of Ireland wrote and spoke to Mr Js wife 
Mrs J and they believe this may be a breach of data protection as she was not an executor
of the will.
Our investigator thought the compensation that Bank of Ireland offered was fair. She said
that Bank of Ireland received the completed deed of indemnity on 23 October 2020, signed
by all of the relevant parties and the accounts couldnt have been closed before this point.
Our investigator said that Bank of Ireland could have done more to make the estate aware of
the death certificate not being certified properly prior to one of the executors having to ring
on 3 November 2020. But when the solicitors name was given, who certified the death
certificate, the accounts were closed on 5 November. Our investigator said she hadnt seen
any evidence to show that Mrs J said that she didnt wish to be corresponded with. She had
requested that the cheques were to be made in her name, she had signed the deed of
indemnity and had sent the previous letter with the death certificate. As such, our
investigator hadnt been able to conclude that corresponding with Mrs J was a data breach
by Bank of Ireland.
The estate disagreed with our investigator and they said that Bank of Ireland spoke to Mrs J
even after they had been informed of who the executors of the estate were. They asked for
an Ombudsman to review their complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about Mr J passing away. I know this must be difficult for those looking after
his estate as its never easy sorting out financial affairs at such an emotional time.
Its clear the level of service provided by Bank of Ireland wasnt always at the level the estate
expected, or that Bank of Ireland themselves hoped to provide. There were mistakes made
that could have been avoided.
I asked Bank of Ireland to send any call recordings that they had with Mrs J or the executors.
All of the calls they sent me were inbound calls. The first call I listened to was on 5 October
2020. On this call a certified copy of the death certificate was discussed. It is here where Im
persuaded that there is a miscommunication. The call handler explains that Mrs J will need
to send in a certified copy of the death certificate. Mrs J says, Ive got a certified copy no
problem. So as Mrs J has confirmed that she already has a certified copy of the death
certificate then Im persuaded that the call handler assumes that Mrs J knows what should
be included on the certified death certificate and this is why the call handler doesnt go into
specifics of what should be included.
Mrs J also contacts the Bank of Ireland on 16 October 2020. The call handler asked if she
had sent in a certified copy of the death certificate. Mrs J confirmed that she had. The call
handler was about to check if the death certificate was a certified copy when they were
talking about the deed of indemnity form and Mrs J asked if she could ignore the letter Bank
of Ireland had sent them (about needing the original death certificate). After she was told she
could, Mrs J said, thats all I needed to know, thank you very much, goodbye.
So I do think on both of these calls there was an assumption that the call handlers thought
Mrs J had a certified copy by Bank of Irelands standards. But because Mrs J had confirmed
on both calls that she had a certified copy of the death certificate then Im persuaded it
wouldnt have been suitable, given the circumstances, for the call handlers to go into great
detail about how to certify a death certificate here.
Next, Ive thought about the delays in closing Mr Js accounts. Mrs J had contacted Bank of
Ireland on 10 September 2020 to inform them of Mr Js passing. But Bank of Ireland wouldnt
have been able to close the accounts before they received a certified copy of the death
certificate and the deed of indemnity form, based on the value of Mr Js accounts. Ive lookedat the letter that the estate sent Bank of Ireland. This letter was dated 19 October and Bank
of Ireland say that they received this on 23 October.
So I do think the earliest that Mr Js accounts could have been closed is on this date, 23
October 2020. The estate has said its only because they contacted Bank of Ireland to chase
them, that has prompted Bank of Ireland to close the accounts a couple of days later. But
Ive seen from Bank of Irelands internal notes that they were having conversations about the
death certificate before one of the executors rang them on 3 November, including a note on
the morning of 3 November, before one of the executors rang Bank of Ireland. So I am
persuaded that this was being dealt with and Bank of Ireland have confirmed to me that the
next step from their internal system note would have been to contact the executor (or
solicitor) by the end of the following day to ask for the details of the solicitor who signed the
death certificate.
The accounts were closed 9 working days after Bank of Ireland had received the deed of
indemnity. So Im not persuaded it was a significant amount of time between Bank of Ireland
receiving the deed of indemnity to them closing Mr Js accounts. That being said, Bank of
Ireland could have contacted the estate sooner, after they had received the certified death
certificate even if they hadnt received the deed of indemnity yet. If Bank of Ireland had
contacted the estate to find out who signed the death certificate after they received it, then
the accounts may have been closed quicker, as opposed to the estate being caught up in
their internal processes which Bank of Ireland have admitted. Im satisfied that its not
unreasonable of Bank of Ireland to need to know the details of the person who had signed
the certified copy to ensure that the authenticity of the certification meets their requirements,
but this shouldnt lead to delays at such a difficult time for the estate.
Next, Ive thought about what the estate has said about Bank of Ireland speaking to Mrs J
despite her not being one of the executors. Ive seen no evidence that Bank of Ireland have
proactively rang her, but I have listened to three calls where she has rung Bank of Ireland
and asked them questions. These three calls were all before the deed of indemnity was sent.
I agree with our investigator that I havent seen any evidence to show that Mrs J didnt wish
to be corresponded with. Mrs J had requested that the cheques were to be made in her
name and had sent the previous letter with the death certificate. She was the next of kin to
Mr J and named as the beneficiary in the will. Ive also had sight of a letter Mr J sent Bank of
Ireland dated 20 August 2020, where he said, my wife deals with all money matters as I
gave her permission to answer the (security) questions. As such I havent been able to
conclude that speaking to Mrs J was a data breach by Bank of Ireland.
Ive considered what one of the executors has said about being told by Bank of Ireland that
she wasnt an executor. There is no doubt that this would have been upsetting. Ive listened
to this call and heard that the call handler apologised for this and the confusion lasted a
couple of minutes before it was confirmed she was an executor and the complaint was made
that day. The executor was able to give the name of the solicitor who signed the certified
death certificate on the call and the accounts were closed within two days. So despite being
told she was not an executor, Im glad to see that this issue was resolved quickly, even if it
needed the executor to tell the call handler how to find her details on the letter sent.
Ive then thought about what the estate has said about how it doesnt say on Bank of
Irelands website of how a document should be certified. I must explain to the state that it is
outside of our remit to tell a business what to include on their website. That would be the role
of the regulators. But I did ask Bank of Ireland if they could answer the questions the estate
asked in response to their final response letter that they issued and I asked them why they
hadnt answered them at the time.
Bank of Ireland said that no one had contacted them to query the process before submittingthe death certificate. It was only after the document wasnt accepted that the estate stated
their requirements were unclear. They said that as the death certificate was certified by a
practicing solicitor, so they would have expected them to know how to correctly complete
this.
In response to not answering the questions in response to the final response letter, Bank of
Ireland said they responded to the complaint as a whole and they had confirmed that they
had passed the estates comments in regards to the certification requirements and service
over the telephone with the relevant areas of their business. But I am persuaded that it
would have been helpful to the estate if Bank of Ireland had specifically addressed the
questions asked here.
One of the executors has detailed all of the stress and anxiety that Bank of Irelands actions
have caused the family and Im sorry to hear this. As our investigator has explained
previously, we cant compensate the executor or personal representative personally for any
impact incurred by them, when representing the estate as they wouldnt be considered the
eligible complainant here.
In summary, I agree there were service failings. However, I dont consider these service
failings are sufficient to enable me to conclude that Bank of Ireland should pay higher
compensation. I appreciate the situation was a difficult one for the estate as it stemmed from
a loved one passing away. I know the estate thinks that Bank of Ireland should pay them
more compensation. But I agree that £100 (£10 for phone calls and £90 for the poor service)
is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation to reflect the service failings and being
caught up in the middle of an internal process by Bank of Ireland. And I intend to ask Bank of
Ireland to pay this to the estate of Mr J, but I dont intend to ask them to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Bank of Ireland accepted the provisional decision. The estate replied to the 
provisional decision after our investigator followed up for a response. 
The estate said A email was sent to decision support email address with our reply. As our 
service did not receive the email the estate said they sent, our investigator asked the estate 
to email the response directly to her by 23 December 2021. As the estate did not respond, I 
asked our investigator to email the estate to inform them we hadnt had a response from 
them. Due to the festive period I extended the deadline for them to give me their final 
comments to 6 January 2022. The email explained that if I hadnt received their final 
comments by this date, I would have to make a final decision on the information I had 
available. 
As I had no response by this date, our investigator tried to reach out by a letter to the 
representative of the estate explaining the steps we had taken to ask for the estates 
response to the provisional decision. The letter granted a final extension to 21 January 2022 
and explained that I would need to issue a decision on the complaint after this date, 
regardless of whether they gave any final comments or not. Our investigator also said if they 
would prefer to speak to her over the phone then they just had to let her know. But we 
received no response to the letter by the final deadline given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have received no further information to consider from either party, then my final decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.My final decision
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should pay the estate of Mr J £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr J 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman