DRN-3782001
The complaint
Ms Ts complaint is about a life cover policy she bought through the Union Income Benefit 
Holdings Limited (UIB) website. She believes the policy was mis-sold as she was not given 
adequate information by UIB and so couldnt make an informed decision. Ms T believes that 
because information about an applicants medical situation was not taken into account in the 
underwriting process, the policy type would be expensive for applicants who were in good 
health. She considers she should have been told this and thinks had she been, she would 
not have taken the policy and instead would have obtained cheaper cover elsewhere. As 
such, Ms T wants the policy to be cancelled and all premiums refunded. 
Ms T has also said that because she had been made aware of the policy through her union, 
she was induced into trusting the product and so didnt complete due diligence or seek 
advice, as she otherwise would have done.
What happened
Ms T applied for a life insurance policy via her union in 2016. The application was completed 
through UIBs website without any advice as to the suitability of the policy for Ms T being 
given. The policy provided life cover of £50,000 over a term to age 70. The premium was 
fixed throughout the term at £82.11 each month and all premiums, less administration fees, 
would be returned at the end of the term if a claim had not been made. 
The information provided before the sale made it clear that all applications were guaranteed 
to be accepted. In addition, it was clearly highlighted throughout that no medical information 
would be asked for. 
Ms T complained to UIB in July 2022 and it responded to the complaint later that month. It 
explained how the policy worked and the benefits it provided. It confirmed the policy had 
been offered to Ms T through her union and she was provided with information, which she 
was asked to read before purchasing the policy. It highlighted that Ms T had not been 
provided with advice to take out the policy, rather she was provided with factual information 
and made her own decision as to whether she wanted it. UIB acknowledged that medical 
underwriting would have factored into the cost of the policy, but so would other things. This 
included the fact the policy refunded all premiums paid if the life assured survived to age 70. 
Ms T was not satisfied with UIBs response and referred her complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint, but he did not recommend that it be upheld. 
Ms T didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She said that while she understood the 
policy was sold on a non-advised basis, she felt the investigator had not taken into account 
the impact of the policy being offered through her union. This meant she automatically 
trusted UIB and didnt see the need to seek advice from an independent adviser. In addition, 
she said there was a lack of clarity and information relating to the lack of medical 
underwriting and the effect this might have had on the price. Ms T said she didnt think she 
should have been told that a similar policy could be obtained cheaper, but rather she should 
have been told the policy didnt distinguish between a person in good health and one who 
was not, and so people without health issues might want to look elsewhere. She believes 
that it was a reasonable expectation for this to have been highlighted. 
Our investigator considered Ms Ts further comments, but it didnt change his conclusions. 
He highlighted that UIB was required to provide clear, precise and not-misleading 
information about any product it was offering, which is what it did. It didnt have to provide 
advice or suggest to Ms T that she might be able to get cheaper cover elsewhere. The 
investigator also highlighted the premium return aspect of the policy was an unusual one and 
not something Ms T would have been easily, or cheaply, able to source elsewhere.  
Ms T remained unhappy and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has been highlighted that Ms Ts policy was arranged without advice. I would firstly confirm 
there was no requirement for UIB to provide advice. However, UIB did need to explain what 
the policy did, how it worked and highlight any unusual or onerous terms and conditions 
associated with it. This would allow a consumer to assess whether the policy was right for 
them, and if they wanted to, to compare it to other options available either with UIB or other 
providers. There was no requirement for UIB to tell a potential customer that there were 
other products available elsewhere, and it would have been unnecessary for it to do so as an 
average consumer would already know this fact.
I have reviewed all of the information provided about the policy. Having done so, I am 
satisfied that prior to Ms T deciding to take the policy, she was provided with all of the 
information I would have expected. In addition, the only potentially onerous condition  that a 
claim wouldnt be paid in the first two years  was clearly highlighted. I cant find that the 
information provided was inadequate or misleading. Furthermore, UIB made it clear that any 
application was guaranteed to be accepted and no medical information would be required. 
So I think it did make it clear the policy was available for all members, no matter what their 
state of health.
Ms T has made much of the fact that she was given access to the policy because she was a 
member of a union. She has said this instilled in her a sense of trust in the policy. That may 
be the case, but it doesnt alter the fact that Ms T would have been aware there were 
alternative policies available to her with other companies and she could have looked at those 
alternatives had she wanted to. It was Ms Ts decision not to do so. I am satisfied UIB gave 
Ms T adequate information about its policy to allow her to make an informed decision about 
whether the policy provided the benefits she wanted for a price she was willing to pay.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms T to accept or reject my decision before 
30 June 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman