DRN-3393636
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the advice he received from Builth Wells Financial Planning Ltd 
to transfer his personal pension plan (PPP) to a new type of plan with the same provider, 
within which his pension funds were retained in a Control Fund  a type of deposit fund. 
Mr J has said that he has lost out financially as a result of his money remaining in the 
Control Fund and not being invested appropriately. Further, as he was paying Builth Wells 
commission, Mr J says that Builth Wells should have regularly reviewed his plan.
What happened
In February 2010, Builth Wells recommended that Mr J transfer his PPP which he started in 
1999, into a new style Retirement Account with the same plan provider.
Builth Wells letter of recommendation dated 15 February 2010, which followed a meeting 
held on 11 February 2010, said that, due to its age, Mr Js existing plan didnt operate on a 
particularly favourable client charging structure.
The adviser said that theyd considered a number of more modern plans, but had 
concluded that the Retirement Account offered the best client terms and was likely to 
produce better returns.
It also said the following about the proposed switch:
I found that the plan offering the best client terms and that is likely (not guaranteed) to 
produce better returns up to age 60 was a New Style Retirement Account offered by 
(provider) themselves.
Keeping all variable factors the same based on 9% average returns the relative projected 
fund value is as follows:
 Existing (provider) Personal Pension - £225,000 
 New Style (provider) Retirement Account - £245,000
This does not alter your level of risk exposure in any way it merely shows that on a like for 
like basis you would expect to obtain an additional pension fund of approximately £20,000 
(8.9%) by aged 60.
Mr J had two other pension schemes at the time of advice, a defined benefit scheme and 
a PPP through his current employer. The PPP held through his employer was invested 
50% in equities and 50% in the managed fund. Builth Wells didnt recommend that he take 
any action in relation to these plans.
Following a meeting with a new adviser, Mr J complained to Builth Wells in February 
2020, saying that he believed the transfer was like for like, as with his old plan. He 
referred to the letter of recommendation as confirmation and justification of the view hed 
held on this, which hed maintained until his new adviser had informed him that his 
pension funds were in fact held in something more akin to a holding/deposit account.
Builth Wells didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. It said that Mr J had previously taken all 
investment decisions with his existing plan and that, by the time of the review, Mr J was 
worried about investing in financial markets. Mr J proceeded with the transfer into the 
Retirement Account, but decided to place his money in the Control Account. Further, 
Builth Wells said, it was agreed that Mr J would contact the adviser again when he wanted 
to invest in financial markets.
The provider had confirmed in its documents to Mr J how his pension funds would be 
invested and hed also received the statutory right to cancel the arrangement if he wished, 
Builth Wells said. It further noted that Mr J was an accountant and was aware of how 
pensions worked.
It said that the provider had paid it initial and trail commission in respect of the transfer, but 
he hadnt signed up for an ongoing service. This was why his account hadnt been 
reviewed. It also told him that his complaint was likely to have been made out of time, and 
if it was, that it did not give permission to this service to investigate it.
Mr J referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it. She took the 
view that Mr Js complaint had been made in time. Builth Wells didnt agree and so Mr Js 
complaint was referred to another ombudsman for a decision as to whether we could 
investigate it. Builth Wells said, in summary, that an intelligent and financially astute 
person, such as Mr J, ought to have been aware from his annual statements of any fund 
performance problems with his investment. 
The ombudsman decided that the complaint had been made in time, and so the 
investigator proceeded to assess the merits of the complaint. They concluded that the 
complaint should be upheld, saying the following in summary:
When recommending a switch from one pension arrangement to another, it would 
be expected that thered be a reasoned justification for it, and this would usually be 
contained within a suitability letter or report.
In some instances, a switch may be beneficial, but having reviewed the available 
documentation for this case, there was no identifiable benefit in Mr J switching.
The variable factors referred to in the suitability letter would remain the same, and 
the level of risk was intended to remain on a like of like basis.
Additional growth of around £20,000 had been projected, but this approximate 9% 
pa level of growth, to which it was reasonable that Mr J would have been attracted, 
wasnt consistent with the actual lowering of Mr Js exposure to investment risk.
The available evidence didnt indicate whether the charges in the new plan would 
be higher or lower, but even if they were the same, Mr J would have lost out 
through the commission payable to the adviser.
Overall, they could identify no reasonable justification for Mr J to have switched, nor could 
they find any evidence that it was Mr J who had himself decided to remove his pension 
funds from financial market exposure. As such, the investigator recommended that Builth 
Wells compare the performance of Mr Js old plan with that which hed switched into. And 
if there was a loss, it should either compensate for this by making a payment into his new 
plan, or if this wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr J.
Builth Wells disagreed, however, saying that Mr J was an experienced investor who 
worked as an accountant and had been in receipt of annual statements from the provider. It was certain that Mr J was completely aware of the funds in which he was invested and 
their relative performance.
The plan only made up a part of Mr Js overall pension portfolio and it was entirely possible 
that the approach taken with it was to offset risk taken in other plans, it added. It was also 
entirely normal for pension funds to be placed in a more secure environment during the 
financial crisis, as markets were experiencing volatility.
An added benefit with the new plan was this it was a complete through retirement 
product, allowing an investor to switch from the accumulation phase to receiving pension 
benefits without needing to change products again. This wasnt possible with Mr Js 
previous plan, Builth Wells said.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
Our jurisdiction to consider the complaint
Ive firstly noted in Builth Wells response that it has maintained its position that Mr J was 
an experienced investor and that he was receiving annual statements from the provider. 
Its repeated its stance that Mr J would have been aware of the funds in which he was 
invested, along with their relative performance. 
As I consider that this relates to our jurisdiction to consider the matter on the basis of 
timeliness, as previously raised by Builth Wells, Ive considered these points.
But as with the findings of the previous ombudsman, Ive noted that the pension plan 
demonstrated an increase year on year, and I dont think it would necessarily have been 
apparent that his pension funds hadnt been invested in a similar way as before - 
especially given the expectation which would have been created by the wording in the 
February 2010 letter about the investment risk exposure being on a like for like basis. 
Its fair to say that the glossary set out a description of the Control Account as being similar 
to a bank account, but as noted by the previous ombudsman, this was on page ten of the 
annual statements. On the basis that Mr J had been informed of the like for like nature of 
the replacement funds, unless Mr J wanted or needed to find out more about the nature of 
his pension investments, I dont think it would have been a reasonable expectation for him 
to have subjected the annual statements to the level of scrutiny which would be required to 
reveal this kind of detail  contained as it was many pages behind what might be 
considered to the headline information of the plans value. On the like for like 
investment assumption, I dont think Mr J would reasonably have needed to look into the 
investments more closely. 
As such, Im satisfied that Mr J first had reason to complain after he had met with his new 
adviser in early 2020. And as he complained within three years of this  in February 2020 
 my conclusion, as with the previous ombudsman, is that the complaint is in time and is 
therefore one we can consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im broadly in agreement with the position reached by the investigator. I 
think its likely that Builth Wells had the genuine intention of placing Mr J into an overall 
more cost effective and flexible plan  although as noted by the investigator, the actual cost effectiveness in terms of charges hasnt been supported by the available evidence  
but I think the implementation was lacking. 
Contrary to the like for like assurance provided in the suitability letter, Mr J switched from 
an environment in which his pension funds would react to market performance to one in 
which, as far as I can tell, theyve effectively obtained returns consistent with cash 
deposits.
I do also acknowledge Builth Wells assertion that it was Mr J who decided on the 
investment strategy himself, but again the available evidence simply doesnt support this 
position. If there was to be any change in the investment strategy, it might reasonably be 
expected that this would be mentioned in the suitability letter, or that if this was something 
which was latterly decided, it would be confirmed in follow up correspondence.
Builth Wells has alluded to Mr Js experience as an investor, and although Mr J said that, 
whilst he worked for an accounting firm he wasnt in fact an accountant, even if I am to 
accept that he had the degree of financial acumen attributed to him by Builth Wells, then 
theres a further problem with what its asserted as being Mr Js own decision to move into 
cash.
To explain, Builth Wells has commented that it might reasonably be expected that an 
individual would choose to place their pension funds in cash during the financial crisis of 
2008/09. But whilst the initial review of his pension position may well have been prompted 
by the financial crisis, by the time of the suitability letter in February 2010, financial 
markets had bottomed almost a year prior to this. By February 2010, certainly the FTSE 
100 had increased in value by approximately 15%. And I think its strongly arguable that 
this would have indicated that something of a sustained recovery was by then under way.
And so, whilst I might accept that it would have been reasonable, perhaps expected, for a 
seasoned investor to have opted to move into cash in a more febrile environment, as had 
been the case in the year and half prior to February 2010, I think it would be less likely that 
they would have opted to do so at that point.
I accept that, on this point, theres a degree of speculation on my part  Mr J may well, as 
suggested by Builth Wells, have decided that this part of his portfolio would be better left in 
cash. But the problem is, as Ive said above, that theres simply nothing in terms of 
contemporaneous evidence to support this  and so Builth Wells own assertions in that 
regard are also somewhat speculative.
In the absence of definitive evidence either way, I need to make a determination on the 
balance of what I consider more likely than not to have been the case. And all indications 
from the letter of February 2010 are that the risk exposure was to remain the same. If Mr J 
was intending to take a different approach, I must question as to why this wasnt reflected 
in that letter. If, as has been suggested, he was acting upon experience of the financial 
crisis of 2008/09, and seeking to diversify his portfolio through retaining this particular plan 
in cash, then it seems more likely than not to me that this intent would have been 
established by the time of that letter  and so reflected in that document.
It therefore follows that I think Mr J was entitled to believe that his pension funds would be 
invested as had been indicated in the February 2010 letter  in a similar way as they had 
been before. But as noted above, there was no identifiable financial benefit to switching 
into the replacement, especially given the effect on the plan of the commission payable as 
a result.Ive also noted what Builth Wells has said about the ability to move seamlessly into the 
receipt of pension benefits with the replacement plan, but this is really more a convenience 
than a financial saving given that, had Mr Js pension funds remained in the existing plan 
he would in any case have only needed to switch into a further arrangement (annuity or 
drawdown) once  as he also did, at some cost given the commission payable, with this 
particular switch.
Overall, therefore, for all the reasons given above, my view, as with the investigator, is that 
there was no reasonable justification for Mr J to have switched from his existing plan. 
Putting things right
My aim is to place Mr J, as far as possible, in the position he would otherwise now be but for 
the advice given to him to switch pension plans.
Builth Wells Financial Planning Ltd should therefore compare the transfer value of Mr Js 
current plan, at the date of this decision, with the notional transfer value of his previously 
held PPP, had it remained as it was. If there is a loss, Builth Wells Financial Planning Ltd 
should make a payment to Mr Js current plan so that it has the same value, taking account 
of any available tax relief, charges, and annual allowance. It shouldnt make a payment into 
the plan if this would affect any lifetime allowance protection Mr J has in place.
If its not possible to make a payment into Mr Js plan, it should be paid directly to Mr J as a 
lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for future income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid.
If Mr J hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
which the investigator presumed to be 20%. Neither party has challenged this presumption. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Builth Wells Financial Planning Ltd 
to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman