DRN-3041488
The complaint
Ms L is unhappy that MBNA Limited have reported adverse information to her credit file.
What happened
In February 2020, Ms L missed a payment to her MBNA credit account because there were 
insufficient funds in her bank account to enable the payment to be made. When Ms L 
became aware of the missed payment, she contacted MBNA and made a manual payment 
to clear the arrears and amended her direct debit details to enable future payments to be 
successful.
Unfortunately, the next scheduled payment, in March 2020, also failed. This was because 
MBNA applied for the payment on the 12th of the month, while the money for the payment 
wasnt made available until the 13th. Ms L wasnt aware that the March payment had been 
missed because she was staying at her partners address for reasons relating to Covid-19 
shielding and so didnt receive the communication that MBNA sent to her regarding this.
Following the March payment not being received, MBNA cancelled Ms Ls direct debit 
instruction and didnt request payments for April, May, June, and July, all of which MBNA 
reported as missed payments to Ms Ls credit file. This was despite there being sufficient 
funds to make all of these payments in Ms Ls current account, had MBNA applied for them.
Ms L wasnt happy about this, especially as she had requested a payment holiday in line 
with the temporary guidance published by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in 
response to the emerging Covid-19 pandemic. So, she raised a complaint.
MBNA looked at Ms Ls complaint. But they felt that there hadnt been any error on their part 
that had led to Ms L not being able to make the scheduled account payments, and so they 
didnt uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Ms L wasnt satisfied with MBNAs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that MBNA had 
made any form of error such that it was reasonable to recommend that MBNA should 
remove the adverse reporting from Ms Ls credit file as Ms L was wanting, and so they also 
didnt uphold this complaint.
Ms L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L has explained to this service that because her daughter has a medical condition, she 
began shielding in response to the emerging Covid-19 pandemic at an early stage and 
moved herself and her daughter to her partners home to do this. This meant that Ms L 
wasnt at her own address to receive the letters that MBNA were sending there, and so 
wasnt aware that payments to her MBNA account were being missed. 
Ms L has also expressed her dissatisfaction that MBNA cancelled her direct debit and didnt 
apply for several later payments which would have been successful had they been applied 
for, given that Ms L had sufficient funds in her bank account for those payments to have 
been made.
I can sympathise with Ms Ls position here, but my role as an ombudsman is to be impartial, 
which in this instance means assessing whether the events about which Ms L has 
complained about  the reporting of missed payments to her credit file by MBNA  have 
occurred as a result of any error or omission that MBNA have made and which has led to the 
missed payments being reported to Ms Ls credit file unfairly as a result.
The first point of consideration is, why did MBNA cancel Ms Ls direct debit instruction and 
was it fair and reasonable for them to have done so? MBNA have confirmed that the reason 
that they cancelled the direct debit instruction was because its their policy to cancel an 
instruction if three consecutive direct debit payments are missed.
MBNA have also confirmed that, given that the January 2020 payment was also applied for 
by them but was unsuccessful, the fact that the February and then the March direct debit 
payments were also unsuccessful meant that three consecutive payments had been missed, 
and this meant that the direct debit instruction was cancelled by them following the 
unsuccessful March payment as per their policy.
This seems reasonable to me, and it isnt uncommon for credit providers to have such a 
policy, which is designed to prevent the customer from continuing to incur failed direct debit 
charges. 
What would be expected by the service in such circumstances would be that MBNA would 
have sent notification of the cancelation of the direct debit instruction to Ms L so that she 
could make new or alternative arrangements. MBNA have confirmed that they did that here, 
and theyve been able to demonstrate that a letter was sent to Ms Ls home address about 
this, as well as that an email was sent to Ms L to the email address that Ms L has used when 
corresponding to this service, and that an SMS was sent to Ms Ls mobile telephone 
number. 
As such, Im satisfied that it was fair for MBNA to have cancelled the direct debit instruction 
when they did, and that MBNA made reasonable attempts to notify Ms L of this fact via 
several different channels.
Ms L has stated that she didnt receive the letters that MBNA sent to her about the 
cancellation of the direct debit or the later missed payments because she wasnt at her home 
address to receive those letters. I dont doubt that this was the case, but it was Ms Ls 
responsibility to monitor and manage her account, and this includes that it was Ms Ls 
responsibility to have updated her contact address details with MBNA if she knew that she 
was going to be away from her home address for an extended period.
Ms L has also expressed her dissatisfaction that MBNA didnt apply a three-month payment 
holiday to her account as per FCA guidance designed to offer protection to customers who 
might be financially impacted and struggle to make account payments as a result of the 
working restrictions imposed by the UK Government at that time in response to the emerging 
Covid-19 pandemic.MBNA have stated that they didnt receive such a request from Ms L. However, Im not 
convinced that Ms L would have been eligible for such a payment holiday even had MBNA 
received her application for one, and I say this because the three-month holidays could only 
be applied for following FCA guidance issued on 9 April 2020 and were only available to 
customers that met specific criteria, including that at the time of the application that there 
were no arrears on the account that the payment holiday was being applied for  which 
wasnt the case for Ms Ls account from 9 April 2020 onwards, which was in arrears. 
It's also the notable that the three-month payment holidays were designed by the FCA to 
assist customers who were struggling to make the required payments because of the 
financial impact of Covid-19. However, Ms L has confirmed that she had sufficient funds to 
make the payments  had they been applied for  and has stated in her correspondence 
with this service that she didnt need the payment holiday but applied for it as a contingency. 
Because of this, Im satisfied that if MBNA had received Ms Ls application for the payment 
holiday, its most likely, on balance, that Ms Ls application would have been declined by 
MBNA for the reasons explained above.
Im not unsympathetic to Ms Ls position here, but I dont feel that Ms L moving to her 
partners address, even for the understandable reasons that she did, absolved her of her 
responsibilities to have managed and monitored her MBNA account. And, while I dont doubt 
that Ms L would have made the later payments to her MBNA account had she been aware 
that the payments were being missed, I dont feel that the fact that Ms L wasnt aware that 
the payments were being missed was through any error or omission made by MBNA, but 
rather was a result of Ms L not updating her correspondence address with MBNA or 
responding to other forms of attempted communication that MBNA made, as well as a result 
of Ms L not actively monitoring the account.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that MBNA have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Ms L in how theyve reported the status of her account to the credit 
reference agencies here, and given that MBNA have a responsibility to make accurate 
reports to the credit reference agencies  which Im satisfied that they have done in this 
instance  it follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing MBNA to take any 
further action.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Ms L was wanting here, but I hope that she will 
understand, given all that Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman