DRN-3559755
The complaint
Mrs D complains because AXA PPP Healthcare Limited hasnt paid a claim for disability 
compensation under her private medical insurance policy. 
All references to AXA PPP Healthcare Limited include the agents it has appointed to handle 
claims on its behalf.  
What happened
Mrs D holds a private medical insurance policy, provided by AXA PPP. 
In 2019, Mrs D had a serious accident and injured her foot. Mrs D needed a number of 
surgeries and other treatments, and says she remains in constant pain. She says she has no 
sensation in certain areas, cant wear a shoe, cant drive, and cant walk without crutches. 
Mrs D says her doctors agree she has permanently lost the use of her foot.
Mrs D made a claim with AXA PPP under the disability compensation section of her policy. 
She provided a medical report dated 25 September 2020 in support of her claim. AXA PPP 
said Mrs Ds claim wasnt covered under her policy, as she hadnt completely lost the use of 
her foot. 
Unhappy, Mrs D brought her complaint to the attention of our service. She subsequently 
provided medical reports dated 26 March 2021, 18 October 2021 and 3 December 2021, 
which have all been shared with AXA PPP. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and, at first, recommended that 
AXA PPP should pay Mrs Ds claim. AXA PPP didnt agree with our investigators findings 
but offered to arrange an independent medical examination (IME) for Mrs D, at AXA PPPs 
expense, and to be bound by the findings of any IME report.
After considering AXA PPPs offer and its further submissions, our investigator said she 
thought the offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mrs D didnt accept AXA 
PPPs offer, or our investigators revised conclusions, so the complaint has been referred to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say that insurers 
must handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules 
into account when making my decision about Mrs Ds complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ds policy provide for the payment of a benefit in the event 
of the total and irreversible loss of use of hand, foot, arm or leg as a result of an accident. It 
isnt in dispute that Mrs Ds injury is permanent and irreversible. AXA PPP hasnt paid Mrs 
Ds claim because it doesnt think the medical evidence demonstrates that her injury has 
resulted in the total loss of use of her foot. 
When deciding whether I think AXA PPP has acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances, its not for me to make my own medical conclusions about Mrs Ds medical 
condition, or to substitute expert medical opinion with my own. Instead, Ive considered 
whether I think AXA PPP has acted fairly and reasonably based on the available medical 
evidence in this case. 
The report dated 25 September 2020, written by an orthopaedic and trauma surgery 
specialist who Ill call Dr A says that Mrs D is still experiencing permanent pain, 
necessitating the use of a stick to support her when walking. The report doesnt say that Mrs 
D has totally lost the use of her foot, so I dont think AXA PPP acted unfairly or unreasonably 
by turning down the claim based on the content of this report. 
The report dated 26 March 2021, prepared for purposes unrelated to this claim, by a doctor 
who Ill call Dr B says that Mrs D has a permanent lack of function of 12%. I dont think this 
report supports a conclusion that Mrs D has totally lost the use of her foot. I understand Mrs 
D says she voluntarily provided this report to AXA PPP and she feels its now being used 
against her. But I cant fairly ask AXA PPP to selectively disregard what I think is persuasive 
medical evidence relating to the validity of Mrs Ds claim, and I also dont think AXA PPP 
acted unfairly or unreasonably by turning down the claim based on the content of this report. 
Ive also considered the report dated 18 October 2021, prepared by a GP who Ill call Dr C, 
which says Mrs D has totally lost the use of her left foot, which is in a permanent condition, 
as well as a second report dated 3 December 2021 prepared by Dr A which says Mrs D has 
permanent consequences resulting in the total and permanent loss of use of her  foot.
After reviewing these reports, AXA PPP said it wished to request Mrs Ds medical notes so it 
could consider the claim further. These notes werent forthcoming from the medical 
professionals, which was outside of AXA PPPs control. AXA PPP subsequently offered to 
arrange an IME for Mrs D and to be bound be the findings of any report (i.e. to pay Mrs Ds 
claim if the IME results in a conclusion that Mrs D has suffered a total and permanent loss of 
use of her foot). 
I understand Mrs D feels AXA PPP could have arranged for an IME sooner. But I dont think 
it was necessary for AXA PPP to consider an IME before it received the reports of 18 
October 2021 and 3 December 2021. And, when AXA PPP did receive these reports, I think 
it was reasonable for it to attempt to request Mrs Ds medical notes first. 
Ive considered everything Mrs D has said about the qualifications of Dr A and Dr C but, 
given the contradiction between the content of the report of 26 March 2021 and the later 
reports together with the lack of availability of Mrs Ds medical notes, I dont think its 
unreasonable for AXA PPP to request for Mrs D to undergo an IME. I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable to direct AXA PPP to pay the claim based on the current available medical 
evidence and Im satisfied that a fair resolution, if Mrs D wants her claim considered further, 
is for AXA PPP to arrange an IME. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Im satisfied that Section 4.3 of the terms and conditions of Mrs 
Ds policy (referring to AXA PPPs rights to arrange an IME) applies to any claim. 
I note that AXA PPP already has medical information about Mrs D which was gathered by its 
second medical opinion service in 2019. But this information pre-dates all the medical 
reports which Ive mentioned above and isnt up to date. So, this doesnt change my 
decision. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs D. I have no doubt that she has been through a very difficult time 
following her accident. But I dont think AXA PPP has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
circumstances.  
Putting things right
AXA PPP Healthcare Limited needs to put things right by arranging for an independent 
medical examination for Mrs D. AXA PPP Healthcare Limited needs to pay for the 
examination and will be bound by the findings of any report. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint against AXA PPP Healthcare Limited in part and I direct it to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman