DRN-1441377
The complaint
Mr Es complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) relates to their decision to reduce the 
credit limit on his credit card account from £2,300 to £500, which he feels is unfair and 
unreasonable as he has always paid off the outstanding balance in full and on time.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to provide a fair and impartial answer to 
individual disputes between consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is 
appropriate.  
The terms and conditions which govern Mr Es account provide that Lloyds were able to 
reduce the credit limit on his account if they thought there was an increased likelihood that 
he would not be able to pay what was owed on time. They also provide that if they do that 
they would tell Mr E as soon as possible afterwards. So, what is important here is that all 
that was required for Lloyds to reduce the credit limit was if they thought there was an 
increased likelihood that Mr E would not be able to repay what was owed on time, not that 
he would not be able to repay it.
Lloyds received information from a credit reference agency called Trans Union (previously 
named Call Credit), which indicated there was some adverse data on Mr Es credit file, and it 
was based upon that information that they made the decision to reduce the limit on the 
account. 
I appreciate Mr E has stated he had more than sufficient savings to cover any debt he 
incurred on his credit card, but that doesnt negate that his credit file position changed. That 
change, which was the adverse data, triggered Lloyds to review whether they felt the limit 
they had agreed to, should remain. In their view they concluded it shouldnt. In deciding to 
reduce the limit, Lloyds have acted within the terms and conditions and so I cant say they 
have acted unfairly. 
I am of course aware that Lloyds have not shared the nature of this adverse data with either 
this service or Mr E, and that is because they are not required to. What they have done 
however is notify Mr E of the existence of the same and invited him to obtain a copy of his 
file so that he could see for himself. I understand he has now done that and believes the 
issue to have been a dispute he had had with HSBC. I also note that Lloyds offered to 
review Mr Es credit limit if he supplied further information which he declined to provide. So, 
there is evidence of Lloyds acting reasonably when challenged by Mr E.
I have noted that in response to our investigators view Mr E states he has not received a 
letter from Lloyds advising him of the credit limit decrease. The terms and conditions of 
course refer only to telling Mr E, and that they did by text which Mr E accepts he received, 
so I cant say Lloyds acted unfairly here either.
So, although Mr E will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Lloyds has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman