DRN-3660770
The complaint
T, a limited company complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly refuses to transfer 
funds back to its accounts using the same exchange rate that Lloyds used when it made the 
initial transfer. 
What happened
T is a business banking customer of Lloyds. In early December 2021, Lloyds wrote to T 
asking it to complete and return a request for information form by no later than 7 February 
2022. The letter said that if Lloyds didnt receive the information by 7 February 2022, it would 
have to restrict Ts accounts and then close them.
Lloyds sent a reminder letter to T on 12 January 2022. As Lloyds didnt receive the 
information by 7 February, it blocked Ts accounts. As part of the closure process, Lloyds 
transferred money from Ts foreign currency accounts to its sterling account.
After T contacted Lloyds later in February 2022 and supplied the requested information, it 
was able to reverse the closure of the accounts. But T wanted Lloyds to transfer the money it 
had moved back to its foreign currency accounts without applying charges and at the same 
rate as when it was transferred from the foreign currency accounts. As Lloyds wasnt willing 
to do this, T brought its complaint to this service.
The investigator didnt recommend that Ts complaint be upheld. He understood that T said it 
never received the requests for information and didnt have any missed calls from Lloyds. 
But the investigator was satisfied that Lloyds sent the requests to T. As the investigator 
thought Lloyds followed the correct processes, he didnt intend asking it to take any further 
action.
T, through its director Miss T, is unhappy with the outcome of the complaint. Miss T says that 
Lloyds was concerned about a small transaction 12 months previously. She doesnt 
understand how Lloyds couldve been trying to protect her if it took so long to act. Miss T 
doesnt think that moving money from Ts foreign currency accounts to its sterling account 
was protecting her. She thinks that it wouldnt cost Lloyds anything to transfer money back to 
the foreign currency accounts. And Miss T would like Lloyds to compensate her for the 
stress and time shes spent dealing with this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
T is a limited company and so, its own legal entity. This means I cant consider the upset or 
stress that Miss T has felt personally. I can only consider whether Lloyds acted fairly and 
reasonably towards T. 
Miss T thinks that a crucial aspect of resolving Ts complaint is to establish why Lloyds 
decided to act to protect Ts accounts 12 months after it had noticed a payment from a 
customer in a specific country but I dont agree. Although Lloyds asked about Ts trading 
relationship with that country as part of its request for information, this was only one aspect 
of the review.  Lloyds needs to make sure that it has up to date information for its business 
customers. And as part of its regulatory obligations, it is entitled to carry out reviews like the 
one it wanted to complete with T.  So, the fact that the payment had been made months 
before, doesnt mean that Lloyds made a mistake when it decided to carry out the review of 
Ts accounts. 
Lloyds wrote to T on 2 December 2021 and again on 12 January 2022, explaining that it 
needed T to provide certain information so that it could keep using its accounts. Lloyds 
enclosed a Request for Information form and asked T to complete and return this together 
with supporting evidence by 7 February 2022. Both letters said the following:
Well restrict access to your account if we dont hear from you. 
Without this information we wont be able to continue to offer you banking services. 
This means we will have to restrict access to your account (s) and proceed to 
closure...
So, Im satisfied that Lloyds clearly set out what T had to do, the deadline it had to do it by 
and the consequences of failing to provide the information requested.
Miss T says she didnt receive the letters but I can see they were correctly addressed. And I 
cant blame Lloyds for any failure in the postal system. 
As Lloyds didnt receive a reply from T, it was reasonable to block the accounts and start the 
closure process. Part of that process involved transferring money from Ts foreign currency 
accounts to its sterling account. Again, I dont consider Lloyds was acting unfairly when it did 
this.
After T contacted Lloyds later in February 2022, Lloyds reversed the closure process. But as 
I dont find that Lloyds made a mistake, I cant reasonably require it to transfer money back 
into Ts foreign currency accounts at the same rate and at no cost to T. 
Lloyds says that T can transfer funds back to its foreign currency accounts using the 
Commercial Banking Online service. I leave it with T to decide whether to do this. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss T but for all the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont consider 
Lloyds acted unreasonably so I dont uphold Ts complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman