DRN-3735740
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that after their joint Estate Planning Cover (EPC) policy was 
cancelled/lapsed, Scottish Widows Limited (the business) replaced it with a policy in Mrs 
Bs name only, for a term of 10 years.  
What happened
In 2008, Mr and Mrs B took out a renewable EPC policy that was due for renew in 2018  10 
years after it commenced, and every 10 years thereafter, until the event of a claim.  
Due to a systems error, the policy didnt renew because the renewal notice wasnt sent as it 
shouldve done. When the error was discovered, a letter was sent to the affected customers. 
The letter prompted Mr and Mrs B to contact the business if they wanted to continue with 
their cover. 
According to the business, Mr and Mrs B contacted it for a quote, and agreed to proceed 
with the higher premium, which wouldve gone up and went up due to their ages. In this 
case, it went up based on the 2018 rates. 
Based on the above, Mr and Mrs B were written to in March 2022, but due to an IT issue, the 
policy was set as a single life policy. The policy was re-issued as a joint policy to start in May 
2022, however the policy still showed incorrectly on their policy documents. In due course, 
apology letters from the business  dated May 2022  were sent to Mr and Mrs B as a result.
 
The business made clear that Mr and Mrs B remained covered under the same terms as the 
original policy, despite the IT/administrative issue. It also decided not to take any more 
premiums until the issue was sorted and wont ask for the missed premiums back either. 
However, once the issue has been fixed, going forward the premiums will become payable. 
In response to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, the business (partially) upheld the complaint in 
relation to the poor service provided. However, it doesnt accept that it didnt send additional 
letters that it said it did. It paid Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused as result of its poor service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said: 
The 2008 policy schedule made clear that the EPC policy provided level term cover 
for a term of 10 years  not whole of life cover as suggested by Mr and Mrs B. 
The EPC policy had an option to renew the policy once it reached the end of its term. 
The business accepts that it shouldve written to Mr and Mrs B in 2018 (about 
renewing the policy) but didnt until 2022.  
Although Mr and Mrs B say that they didnt receive the new quotes (after confirming 
that they wanted to renew the EPC policy), based on the available evidence hes 
satisfied that they were sent the relevant correspondence by the business in March 
2022  sent to the same address that our service is using to correspond with them. 
Despite Mr and Mrs Bs concerns, the business has confirmed that the policy is a 
joint policy but due to an IT issue it was showing as a single policy in Mrs Bs name 
only  but this wasnt correct.  
Mr and Mrs B werent charged double for their premiums. The business has refunded 
the April, May and June 2022 premiums and has undertaken not to take any further 
premiums until the IT/administrative issue has been fixed. 
The business has also paid Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, which is, based on our awards, broadly fair and reasonable.
  
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary, they said: 
They would never have taken out a 10-year policy in 2008 to cover an inheritance tax 
(IHT) liability, Mr B was in his mid-forties at the time. 
The business may have letters, but they doubt if they were actually sent  after all, 
why would they complain if they had received the letters? 
They noticed that monthly premiums werent being collected, but they had no idea 
that this was as a result of compensation for the technical issues faced by the policy 
 they hadnt been notified about this. 
They question what happens in 10 years-time, if one of them is still alive? Are they 
meant to get a new policy at aged 70 and 80 respectively? Or will the policy be 
extended again?
If they have to take out a new policy, they feel like theyve just paid thousands of 
pounds into a policy for no reason. 
Having recently taken financial advice, they feel like the 2008 policy was unsuitable 
for their requirements. A policy taken out to cover an IHT liability shouldve been set 
up for life, and not 10 years. 
Even with the opportunity to extend, the premiums after 10 years are likely to be 
more expensive, thats if the policy provider even accepts their request to extend the 
policy. A whole of life policy is now likely to cost them £1,000 a month.    
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
Despite what Mr and Mrs B say, the paperwork still shows that they took out the 10-
year policy. 
He cant blame the business if she didnt receive the letters. Hes satisfied they were 
sent by the business. 
He cant advice Mr and Mrs B as to what they should do moving forward. 
If Mr and Mrs B now want to complain about suitability, theyll have to give the 
business a chance to investigate and respond to that complaint first before it can be 
considered by our service.    
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. Because the business upheld the complaint, the key issue for me to consider is redress and 
whether or not its reasonable in the circumstances. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the parties say, I think the 
redress paid by the business is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the strength 
of feeling Mr and Mrs B have about this matter. They have provided detailed submissions 
to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope they 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not 
in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, or undertake a forensic analysis of the evidence, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it 
doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points in this case.
 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr and Mrs B and the business, and 
reach what I think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of 
the case  Im not here to take sides.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and 
best industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for 
me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to 
have happened.  
Theres no dispute that the business made an error when it failed to write to Mr and Mrs B in 
2018, reminding them of their option to extend the policy. I note it has apologised for this and 
paid Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. I note the 
business has already offered to extend/extended the policy based on the 2018 policy, and 
has made clear that premiums were likely to increase in any event given Mr and Mrs Bs age 
 so in the circumstances I think £100 compensation is broadly fair and reasonable. 
In other words, the business has placed them in the position they wouldve been in but for 
the error. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs B wouldve extended the policy if theyd been given 
the opportunity to do so  which is what the business ultimately gave them an opportunity to 
do anyway. I dont think Mr and Mrs B having to pay higher premiums means that the 
business has done anything wrong  this was inevitable given that they were older. 
Despite what Mr and Mrs B say, Im satisfied that the policy wasnt a whole of life policy. It 
was a 10-year level term policy with an opportunity to extend. Im mindful of Mr and Mrs Bs 
comments regarding why they would take out a 10-year term policy for the purposes of IHT 
liability  but thats not a question I can answer in this decision. In other words, despite what 
Mr and Mrs B say, its not clear why they took out the policy  for IHT purposes  in the first 
place in 2008, but thats not the subject of this complaint therefore Im not deciding whether 
or not it was the right or wrong thing to do. 
I note that the business hasnt had an opportunity to consider this part of the complaint. 
However, in the circumstances, I agree with the investigator that Mr and Mrs B would need 
to give the business an opportunity to consider that particular complaint point regarding 
suitability and respond accordingly, before they decide to refer the complaint to our service. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I think its more likely (than not) that the 
correspondence containing the new quotes was sent by the business. Its possible that they were received but ignored as unimportant. In other words, its highly unlikely that the 
documents were prepared, and correctly addressed but not sent to Mr and Mrs B. 
  
Its possible that there was an issue with the post, and that the relevant documentation 
wasnt delivered  but Ive seen no evidence that there was. Even if there was a problem, 
and the correspondence wasnt delivered, I cant blame the business for the shortcomings of 
a third-party postal service.  
Mr and Mrs B are of course free to take financial advice before deciding what they should do 
if they havent already done so. Thats entirely a matter for them  its not for me to 
hypothesise/explain what they should (and shouldnt) do in another 10 years.  
In the circumstances, and on balance, Im satisfied that the £100 compensation paid for the 
trouble and upset is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
In this instance, and on balance, I dont think the business needs to do anymore.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what they want to hear. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman