DRN-4168477
The complaint
Mr I complains that Homeserve Membership Limited (Homeserve) mis-sold him a home
emergency insurance policy covering his boiler and central heating.
What happened
In 2012, Mr I took out a home emergency insurance policy for his boiler and central heating
with a company Ill call X Limited.
In 2016, X Limited wrote to Mr I to say it would no longer be providing boiler and central
heating care plans as a business and had chosen Homeserve to look after Mr Is boiler and
central heating going forward.
X Limited also sent Mr I some information from Homeserve which said (among other things)
Mr Is plan with X Limited would automatically be replaced by a 12-month insurance product
arranged and administered by Homeserve.
Mr I renewed his policy with Homeserve over the following years. In January 2022, Mr Is
boiler stopped working. He contacted Homeserve and engineers were sent out to investigate
the fault. From these investigations, it was concluded the access to Mr Is boiler wasnt in
line with the manufacturers guidelines. Homeserve wrote to Mr I saying that, because of
this, its policy wasnt suitable for him. Mr Is policy was cancelled and he was offered a
refund of some past premiums and service fees along with some compensation.
Mr I has complained about how his insurer handled this matter and hes had our final answer
on that complaint. But Mr I also says that, because he was told the policy wasnt suitable for
him, Homeserve had mis-sold it.
The investigator who looked at Mr Is complaint didnt uphold it. She said Mr I had made
previous successful claims on the policy and had had his boiler serviced in previous years,
so hadnt lost out (which Mr I continues to dispute).
Mr I didnt agree with our investigators findings, so his complaint came to me to
decide. In my provisional decision of 2 May 2023, I explained why I didnt intend to uphold 
Mr Is complaint but for different reasons from those our investigator gave. 
Mr I doesnt agree with my provisional decision. Homeserve hasnt responded to it. So Mr Is 
complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons given in my provisional decision, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Is complaint. Heres what I said in that decision: 
Ive looked at the documents Mr I was sent when his policy moved from X Limited to
Homeserve in 2016. A letter from X Limited dated 11 November 2016 says (among other
things): we will be no longer providing boiler and central heating care plans as a business
and we have chosen Homeserve to look after your boiler and central heating going forward.
The letter also says: You do not need to worry about moving to Homeserve, we will do this
for you. The change will be seamless and your new insurance-based contract will run for 12
months from 01 December 2016.
In a letter to Mr I dated the same date as X Limiteds letter, Homeserve says: I'm delighted
to let you know that from 01 December 2016, we will be looking after the repair and
maintenance of your boiler and central heating.
Beneath a paragraph headed What happens next?, the Homeserve letter goes on to say:
To make life as easy as possible, we'll make the change automatically, so you won't need to
do a thing. But if you'd like to discuss your new policy, or if you would rather not proceed
with the changes, just give us a call
From this information, I dont think Homeserve sold Mr I a home emergency policy in 2016.
Rather, I think it took over the home emergency cover Mr I already had with X Limited.
Because I dont think Homeserve sold Mr I the policy, it follows that I dont think Homeserve
mis-sold it.
If Mr I remains unhappy about the sale of the policy, he could complain to the financial
business that originally sold him it (which Ive referred to as X Limited in this decision). If Mr I
does this, and isnt satisfied with the response he gets, he can bring a new complaint to us.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr I says Homeserve clearly sold him the policy. In 
support of his position, Mr I says the contract he got from Homeserve dated 11 November 
2016 states in three separate places that This policy is sold, arranged and administered by 
HomeServe.
While I understand the point Mr I makes, it doesnt change my conclusions on this complaint. 
Ive seen no evidence X Limited knew the position of Mr Is boiler, so I dont think 
Homeserve couldve known about it when the policy was moved across. And I also think 
what happened here is Homeserve used its generic product literature when it took on X 
Limiteds customer book and didnt adapt it for the business transfer. I havent seen any 
evidence of a specific sale between Mr I and Homeserve  as Homeserve says in its letter 
dated 11 November 2016, Mr I didnt have to do anything to carry on with the policy. And the 
cover he got with Homeserves policy was the continuation of broadly similar cover hed had 
with X Limited.
My final decision
For the reasons given here and in my provisional decision of 2 May 2023 (and which now 
forms part of this final decision), I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman