DRN-2254219
The complaint
Mr R complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) hasnt provided him with the service it should have. He says he was told that 
his account would be placed on hold while his complaint was being investigated but the hold 
was removed without him being informed. 
What happened
Mr R says that he raised a complaint about the loan he entered with BPF in July 2019. He 
says that he was told his account would be put on hold while his complaint was being 
investigated. He says no payment was taken in August because his account was on hold. 
The first attempt to take a payment was in September 2019 and this was then refunded. He 
says BPF paid him compensation of £75 in August 2019 and £100 in January 2020 which 
shows BPF had acknowledged mistakes had been made.
Mr R says that BPF didnt contact him about his account being taken off hold. He says it 
refunded his payment which resulted in a debt arising. He says that it was BPFs poor 
communication that resulted in his account going into arrears and affecting his credit file. 
Mr R wants any adverse information recorded on his credit file removed.
BPF says that Mr Rs complaint about his account being taken off hold linked to his other 
complaint regarding his loan. It issued a final response letter in June 2020 saying that Mr R 
hadnt been provided the service he should have been in terms of the emails he sent not 
being acknowledged and delays in getting a response to his concerns. Because of this it 
paid him £100 compensation. It didnt accept that it had made a mistake regarding Mr Rs 
complaint being put on hold and said it wasnt required to do this while a complaint was 
being investigated by this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that unfortunately the call recordings 
werent available due to a technical issue at BPF, but he had seen the call notes and relied 
on these. He said the call notes showed that Mr Rs account was placed on hold for 14 days 
on 16 September 2019 following Mr Rs call. He said there was nothing to show the account 
was put on hold in August 2019.  
Our investigator discussed the payment attempts and refund in September 2019 with BPF. 
He said that BPF had explained it had tried to take the direct debit payment, but this was 
unsuccessful. It then made a second attempt as was usual when a payment was 
unsuccessful. BPF said the issue was most likely due to Mr R cancelling the direct debit after 
BPF had started the payment request process. 
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that the call recordings were needed 
for a decision to be made and said that he wanted a copy of these once available. He said 
the adverse information should be removed from his credit file. He also questioned why BPF 
would have paid him compensation had it not accepted it had made a mistake.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R entered into a loan agreement with BPF in July 2019. I am aware that he raised a 
separate complaint about issues concerning this agreement and this has been investigated 
as a separate complaint. This decision relates to his complaint BPF told him his account 
would be placed on hold while his complaint was being investigated.
Unfortunately, the call recordings havent been provided and while I note Mr Rs comments 
about this, I find that I have enough evidence to make a decision on this complaint.
Mr R was unhappy with an issue regarding his loan agreement and raised a complaint. He 
says he was told his account would be put on hold while his complaint was investigated. I 
have looked through the contact notes from the time and can see Mr R raised the concerns 
about his agreement in early August 2019. At this time there is no mention of his account 
being put on hold. Mr R has noted a compensation payment of £75 at this time and this is 
mentioned in the notes, but this relates to a separate issue to that being dealt within this 
decision. 
After the contact in early August 2019, Mr R then didnt contact BPF until 30 August when he 
said he wouldnt make any payments on his account as his previous complaint hadnt been 
adequately resolved. Had Mr R thought his account was on hold at this time I wouldnt have 
expected him to make a call saying no payments would be made. Therefore, this suggests 
that while Mr R wasnt happy with the service he had received at that time he also hadnt 
been told his account was on hold. At this time the call notes say Mr R was told the 
consequences of missed payments and was given the email address of the complaints 
team. 
Mr R has provided a copy of his bank statement showing the September 2019 payment was 
returned. I note he had enough money in his account to make the payment at that time. 
However, based on the information provided by BPF and the call recording notes which 
record Mr R saying he wouldnt be making payment, I find It more likely than not that the 
explanation provided by BPF that Mr Rs direct debit was cancelled but this only happened 
after the payment request was in progress is the most likely explanation. Therefore, I find it 
more likely than not that the payment wasnt refunded due to BPF acknowledging an issue 
as Mr R had thought but instead that the direct debit payment requested was unsuccessful.
Mr R called BPF on 16 September and the notes at this time say his account would be put 
on hold for 14 days. I understand Mr Rs comments about not being told the hold was being 
removed. However, I note that in an email from Mr R dated 1 October 2019, he says that he 
had just had an unsatisfactory call with BPF on which he understood his account was on 
hold for 14 days. This suggests that Mr R was aware the account was on hold for 14 days 
rather than until his complaint had been resolved by this service.
There was then a call on 7 October where payment was discussed, and Mr R says he 
thought payment wasnt required as his account was on hold. I can understand why he 
thought this. However, as Mr R brought his account up to date at that time I do not think this 
would have had a negative impact on his credit file.
Mr R says that his credit file has been affected and this meant he was refused credit. I have 
looked at Mr Rs account statement up to August 2020. The only missed payment was for 
the September 2019 payment which, as I have set out above, was more likely than not due 
to Mr Rs direct debit instruction being cancelled. I have nothing to suggest that Mr Rs 
account was on hold at that time and so if this missed payment was recorded on Mr Rs credit file I do not find I can say this was incorrect. I have nothing else to suggest this issue 
was the reason Mr R was refused credit.
Mr R has also noted a further compensation payment of £100 being made in January 2020. I 
have looked at the information about this was linked to another issue and wasnt an 
acknowledgement of BPF acting incorrectly regarding putting Mr Rs account on hold.
Overall, while I appreciate that Mr R has been upset by the service he has received from 
BPF, I do not find that I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman