DRN-3818558
Complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) recorded a fraud prevention 
marker against him.
Background
In June 2020 and July 2020, Mr O received payments of £3,400.00 and £1,938.00 into his 
account. All but £138 of these funds were transferred on to a crypto-currency platform. 
Barclays was subsequently notified that the payees of these funds had reported being 
victims of fraud. Barclays carried out a review and as a result of its investigation, it decided 
to close Mr Os account and record a fraud prevention marker.
Mr O subsequently complained about Barclays actions. Barclays didnt uphold Mr Os 
complaint. As Mr O remained dissatisfied, Mr O referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Os concerns. He didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr O unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr O disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr O is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Os account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr O was deliberately dishonest 
in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. 
This can include Mr O allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Os complaint, I need to decide whether I think Barclays had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Os account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Barclays did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
Mr O says that the funds he received were from a friend. He says that he lent his friend 
around £2,000.00 and the funds were from his friend paying him back. When he was asked 
to provide information such as conversations or messages to support his version of events, 
Mr O told our adjudicator that he didnt have a written agreement as he trusted that his friend 
would pay him back when he could.   
Ive thought about what Mr O has said. However, the implausibility of what hes told us 
makes it difficult for me to accept his version of events here. I say this because Mr O says 
that the payments were from his friend but they clearly came from two different payees. One 
of these payees was a company and the total amount Mr O received and then transferred to 
a crypto-currency platform was for more than double the amount he says he lent. 
Furthermore, Im also concerned at Mr Os inability to provide anything at all to support his 
version of events. I appreciate that Mr O provided an invoice to Barclays which led to some 
of the funds from his account being released to him. But these were funds from a completely 
different transaction. Equally while I understand that Mr O might not have drawn up a formal 
contract with his friend, I still find it difficult to see why he doesnt have anything at all to 
demonstrate that he gave his friend £2,000.00. 
So Im afraid that there are a number of factors which call into question the plausibility of 
what Mr O has said. And when all of these unanswered questions are weighed against the 
fact that Barclays received two notifications, one of which was from a third-party bank 
responsible for sending a payment, stating that different payees had reported being victims 
of fraud, I think that Barclays was reasonably entitled to conclude that these funds were 
fraudulent. 
Equally given the implausibility of Mr Os version of events, Im also satisfied that Barclays 
was also reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr O was 
complicit in the fraudulent activity. As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for 
Barclays record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did.
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly 
towards Mr O and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr O  especially as I know Mr O is concerned about his inability to open 
another account. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
appreciate why a fraud marker has been recorded against him. Mr O might also find that 
hes able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies for a Basic Bank 
Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman