DRN-3210998
The complaint
Mr P complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc irresponsibly granted him a fixed term loan 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
Mr P is represented by a family member but for ease of reference I have referred to Mr P 
throughout this decision. 
What happened
In February 2021, Mr P acquired goods financed by a fixed sum loan agreement from 
Hitachi. Mr P paid a deposit of £98 and was required to make 48 monthly repayments of 
£27. The total repayable under the agreement was £1,398.
Mr P says that Hitachi didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Hitachi didnt agree. It said that it carried 
out a thorough assessment which included gathering information about Mr Ps 
circumstances and he said he was living with parents and was employed with an annual 
income of £16,500. It carried out a credit check that it said didnt raise any concerns and 
Mr Ps application was auto accepted.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Hitachi didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr P didnt agree and said he had a low income, earning on average £346 a month and his 
account was in overdraft and he had taken out another loan around the time of the 
agreement. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before granting the finance, I think Hitachi gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information from Mr P about his ability to repay. I say this because it completed a credit 
check which showed no adverse information and asked him about his income and living 
arrangements. However, just because I think it carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt 
automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence 
and information showed. 
In this case, Mr P declared an annual income of £16,500. Given the size of the monthly 
repayments I do not find it unreasonable that the income amount wasnt verified. I accept 
further checks would have shown that Mr Ps income was lower than he declared but having 
looked at his bank statements from the months prior to the agreement, these would have 
suggested a monthly income of around £900. Mr P has said he was living with parents and 
given the low repayment amounts I do not find it unreasonable that further expenditure 
checks werent undertaken at this time. That said, Ive reviewed Mr Ps bank statements 
leading up to the lending decision. These show that Mr P was paying £200 for rent and was 
also paying for his mobile, food, fuel and some other credit commitments. Taking these 
figures into account, I still find that it appears to show the agreement was affordable to Mr P. 
Mr P has noted his other credit commitments and overdraft. However, as I think the checks 
carried out were reasonable I do not find I can say the Hitachi should have been aware of 
Mr Ps overdraft position. Based on the credit information Hitachi gathered (and also noting 
the report provided by Mr P) I do not find that the credit check raised concerns that meant 
further checks were required. 
For the reasons set out above, Im not persuaded that Hitachi acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman