DRN-4377442
The complaint
Mr J has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) charged for a boiler 
service following the expiry of a home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr J had a home emergency policy with British Gas. He decided not to renew the policy. Mr 
J booked a boiler service with British Gas, which was carried out. British Gas then charged 
Mr J a cancellation fee, which was the equivalent cost of a completed boiler service, 
because he hadnt made the payment for the cover to be in place when the boiler service 
was completed.
Mr J complained to British Gas because he said he didnt know he would be charged a 
cancellation fee for the boiler service. When British Gas replied it said the boiler service had 
been booked and carried out after the policy had expired. Services had been carried out in 
previous policy years and so the policy cancellation charges applied for the most recent 
boiler service completed.
So, Mr J complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it 
was reasonable for British Gas to carry out the service on the understanding that the policy 
would be renewed and the payment was due. When the policy wasnt renewed it was 
reasonable for British Gas to apply a charge.
As Mr J didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr J had a HomeCare policy with British Gas. British Gas carried out the previous annual 
boiler services in October 2020 and November 2021. This meant boiler services were 
carried out in each of those policy years. Mr J was sent renewal documents, but he decided 
not to renew the policy. The policy expired at the beginning of September 2022. A few days 
later, Mr J went online and booked a boiler service, which was carried out shortly after. 
When Mr J didnt then pay to renew his policy, British Gas wrote to him to say the policy had 
been cancelled because it hadnt received a payment. It also sent him an invoice for a £65 
cancellation fee, which was the cost of a boiler service by British Gas. Mr J said he shouldnt 
have to pay the cancellation fee because British Gas had told him the boiler service was 
due. He said he was under the impression it was free of charge and he wasnt under a 
contract at the time of the service, so the policy terms and conditions didnt apply.
Ive thought about this. British Gas wrote to tell Mr J the policy was due to renew. He chose 
not to renew it. When the boiler service was booked and took place, Mr J knew he didnt 
have cover in place with British Gas. I also think its reasonable to expect that he knew the 
previous boiler services had taken place under the policy.
The boiler service was booked online by Mr J and was completed within the 14-day cooling-
off period described in the renewal notice. So, I think it was reasonable for British Gas to 
carry out the service on the basis that it understood Mr J was going to renew the policy. 
When British Gas didnt receive the policy renewal payment it charged a cancellation fee of 
£65. British Gas fees were based on the type of work completed. Its charge for a completed 
annual service was £65. I havent seen anything that persuades me British Gas indicated to 
Mr J that it would carry out a boiler service on any basis other than there being a HomeCare 
policy in place at the time.
Mr J has said his main concern was that other people, including those who are vulnerable, 
could make a similar error. He wanted British Gas to review their processes and make the 
boiler service invitation clearer to others. My role is to look at individual complaints. Im 
unable to tell British Gas how it should operate. So, I have no comment to make on this.
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont uphold this complaint or require British Gas to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman