DRN-2971280
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy about the increase to the premium for a pet insurance policy he has, which 
is underwritten by Zenith Insurance plc. He believes that an increase in the price of the 
policy introduced at the 2020 renewal is punitive and designed to make him change policies. 
Mr S wants his premium reduced to reflect a 5% increase on the premium charged in the 
previous policy year.
What happened
In December 2015 Mr S arranged a branded pet insurance policy for his dog, which was 
around a year old at that time. Its a lifetime policy, on which only one claim has been made. 
At the 2019 renewal the annual premium was set at £491.76. This provided cover for 
veterinary fees, boarding fees, a death benefit, theft cover and costs associated with 
searching for a missing dog. In addition, the policy provided for third party legal liabilities.
In January 2020 Mr S made a claim on the policy for a surgical procedure. Zenith accepted 
the claim and paid out around £665.
When Mr S received the renewal offer in 2020 the annual premium required was £948.12. 
The levels of cover remained the same. Mr S was unhappy with the amount of the premium 
increase and complained.
Zenith responded to Mr S complaint. It confirmed how the policy worked. It also explained 
that as a pet aged, there was a higher likelihood of the need for treatment. As such, the 
premium to the policy would increase each year and if there had been a claim, that increase 
could be significant. In addition, there would be increases to general costs that needed to be 
taken account of, such as the cost of veterinary treatment increasing. It said that it wasnt 
able to reduce the cost of the policy, but it did pay Mr S £200 compensation as it felt it may 
not have made the possibility of significant premium increases clear to him when he took the 
policy out.
Mr S said that he couldnt satisfy himself that he was being treated fairly. He said hed 
looked elsewhere for policies that covered pre-existing conditions and found some that were 
cheaper than the Zenith policy. He said that he believed he should be able to buy a policy 
from his existing insurer for less than the market price for a contract with a new insurer. As 
such, the increase to his premium was unreasonable. He asked this service to consider the 
complaint. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He confirmed that the information Zenith had provided us with indicated that there 
had been an increase in the base premium and further increases due to the age of the dog 
and a claim having been made. He was also satisfied that the £200 Zenith had agreed to 
pay Mr S, if the potential for significant premium increases hadnt been highlighted to him, 
was appropriate. 
Mr S didnt accept the investigators opinion. He said that he didnt think we had investigated 
the complaint sufficiently and said that with a little pushing, we would be able to unearth how 
Zenith was exploiting its customers. He went on to explain how he considered we should be 
assessing his complaint and what our conclusions should be. He also confirmed that the 
£200 Zenith had said it was going to pay hadnt been paid.
Our investigator explained his findings again. He also commented that the fact that Mr S had 
found a policy that provided the same benefits at a cheaper premium, didnt mean that the 
Zenith premium was unreasonable or that it was doing something wrong. Mr S remained 
unhappy. As such, the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I also note that Mr S has referred to us as a consumer champion. That is not the case. We 
deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. We are impartial and 
we dont act on either partys behalf. In addition, I would explain that we dont take either 
sides instructions on how to investigate a complaint, when we have enough information to 
make a decision or what our conclusions should be.
In bringing this complaint Mr S has made a number of detailed points. I don't intend to 
address each and every point hes made and instead will focus on what I see as being the 
key issues at the heart of Mr S complaint. 
Mr S quite simply believes the premium Zenith has charged him since the 2020 renewal is 
too high and the percentage increase is unreasonable. I can understand that he is unhappy 
as the increase to the premium is significant. However, when we consider such cases we will 
review why the premium has increased. 
With most insurance policies there are basic costs associated with providing a policy and its 
benefits, along with an element of profit for the insurer. As time progresses the basic costs of 
the policy will change and usually increase. This increase will take account of things like the 
increased cost of providing veterinary care. 
Then there will be costs associated with the thing that is insured  the additional risks that 
the individual details represent to the insurer. These things will be for example the age of the 
pet, leading into the likelihood of a claim, what type of pet it is and where the policyholder 
lives. The individual costs may also change. This could be something as simple as the pet 
aging or a change of address. However, the number of claims made and the value of those 
claims will also have an effect on the premium. If a claim is made the premium is likely to 
rise and if that claim had a high cost associated with it, that can have a significant effect on 
the premium.
Zenith has given us some information about how it calculated Mr S premium. I cant share 
that with Mr S as it is commercially sensitive, but I have examined it carefully. I would firstly 
comment that his annual premium had at the previous three renewals increased by just 
under 25%, even though claims hadnt been made. The additional increase in the premium 
was down to the fact that Mr S dog was another year older, which Zenith has explained 
means that a claim is more likely, the fact a claim was made and the value of that claim. The 
claim cost to the insurer was more than the premium for that year and represented a 
significant proportion of the total premiums that had been paid. Mr S is right, that that is what 
the insurance policy is for. However, when the insurer is paying out large claims, and the 
likelihood of further claims is higher, the policy represents a significantly higher risk to the insurer than it had previously. That increased risk is reflected in the premium charged. 
Although I know that Mr S isnt going to accept my conclusions, I am not persuaded that 
Zenith was wrong in increasing the policy premium as it did. 
Zenith has accepted that it may not have made it sufficiently clear to Mr S that there could be 
significant increases to the premium in some circumstances. It is clear that the large 
increase in premium came as a surprise to Mr S and I think the £200 compensation is an 
appropriate amount in the circumstances. I note that Zenith said it would be paying this sum 
into the bank account he pays his policy premiums from. Mr S has said that the money has 
not yet been paid. Given this, Zenith should make the payment if it hasnt already done so. If 
it has made the payment, it should contact Mr S with details, so he can check his account. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
6 December 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman