DRN-2728284
The complaint
Mr B represented by his IFA is unhappy at the Market Value Reduction (MVR) applied to his 
Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix) policy. They believe the value is disproportionate 
to the time left until Mr Bs normal retirement date.
What happened
I understand that Mr Bs IFA wanted to transfer this policy because it wasnt performing and 
add it to an existing investment of Mr Bs. However, the MVR penalty was so high that this 
option was not viable. Mr Bs IFA understands that MVRs need to be applied and why. But 
he thinks the MVR applied here is unacceptably high given that at the time Mr B was so 
close to his normal retirement age.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that 
Phoenix had applied the MVR in line with the principles set out in Phoenixs Principles and 
Practice of Financial Management (PPFM). She said shes not aware that the regulator has 
any issue with how the MVR was structured and therefore she didnt think Phoenix had done 
anything wrong.
Mr Bs IFA responded to say, he believed the FCA hadnt objected as it hadnt considered 
the practical effects of the MVRs application. He doesnt believe the MVR to be 
proportionate. And he does not accept the statement that to allow a customer to draw their 
benefits would unduly affect other customers if that customer is so close to retirement. He 
doesnt accept it should be an all or nothing situation up until retirement date. Mr Bs IFA 
made the point that it cant be fair that an MVR is £10,000 or more at 11.59 and then at 12 
oclock its 0. He acknowledges that Phoenix is entitled to apply an MVR. But he said even 
some small nature of time apportionment is entirely absent. And that Mr B's plan had a 
natural value which was far higher than the transfer offered, and which was not reflected by 
Phoenix's transfer quotation due to the abnormally high MVR applied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs IFA accepts that an MVR can be applied. And so I wont explain the process and why 
it occurs as all parties are already aware of this. What I have to decide is if Phoenix has 
done anything wrong in its application of the MVR in Mr Bs circumstances.
I appreciate the point Mr Bs IFA has made, the MVR is unusually high, but Phoenix has 
spent some time explaining why and how this figure was reached. And this is in line with 
what it set out in its PPFM. Its explained the MVR is applied not by how long a customer has 
until retirement but applied using the date the investment began. 
Phoenix also explained that the fund guarantees 4% growth a year all the way up to age 75 
as long as the fund remains invested until the policyholders 65th birthday. If the fund is 
accessed before this date the guaranteed growth to 75 is lost. It says the MVR is required to 
ensure all the guarantees its made are met.
Mr Bs IFA argues that there should be proportionality within the time to retirement. But as 
Phoenix set out, its MVR is applied based on the year of investment. This is set out in its 
PPFM and this is monitored by the FCA who hasnt made us or Phoenix aware of any issue 
with this method of calculating the MVR as far as Im aware.
Mr Bs IFA questions whether this is due to the FCA not considering its practical application. 
I cant answer on the FCAs behalf but I dont think this method seems unfair or 
unreasonable in my view. The 4% guaranteed growth applied until 75 once the investor 
reaches 65 will have quite a large effect on the value of policies. And likely explains the 
unusually large MVR applied so close to retirement. Mr B stood to benefit from this 
guaranteed growth and whilst I can understand it may be frustrating to have such a large 
penalty so close to retirement, it doesnt seem unfair or unreasonable.
In terms of proportionality, I think Phoenixs explanation of how the MVR is calculated 
answers this. Its not calculated based on how close the customer is to retirement and the 
4% growth is added at 65. The MVR does need to be proportionate in terms of the costs that 
are offset. Im not an actuary so I cannot give an expert opinion, but as Ive said the 4% 
growth guarantee only comes into play at age 65 and pays until age 75. This appears to 
explain why there is a high MVR until 65.
Ultimately Phoenix is allowed to apply an MVR, its followed the steps it is required to do to 
put this in place. And I dont think it has done anything wrong in the way its treated Mr B. Its 
applied the MVR and the terms of the policy. Mr B wanted to benefit from the guaranteed 
growth that is set out in the policy terms which comes into play once age 65 has been 
reached. Mr B couldve transferred earlier but he wouldve lost out on this benefit  and as I 
said this likely explains the large MVR  but Mr B chose not to do so. The rules of the With-
Profits policy have been applied fairly to Mr B and I dont think Phoenix has done anything 
wrong.
Therefore, I will not be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman