DRN-4263666
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Vacation Finance Limited (VFL) unfairly turned down their 
claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 [as amended] (the CCA) relating to a loan 
provided to them to purchase a timeshare membership.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have been members and holders of various timeshare interests purchased 
through a timeshare supplier (who Ill refer to as A) since around 2008. Over time, Mr and 
Mrs M agreed to subsequent purchases and upgrades elevating their membership status 
and benefits, having attended various sales presentations given by A. The timeshares 
purchased are located in a popular holiday destination outside of the UK.
The purchases are said to have been funded under various credit agreements through 
various finance providers, including three such purchases that Mr and Mrs M believed were 
financed by VFL.
In or around June 2021, Mr and Mrs M submitted a complaint to VFL in relation to the three 
purchases they believe were funded by loans provided by them. They included:
23 August 2016 for £87,000 funded with a loan of £60,900
24 October 2018 for £65,500 funded with a loan of £45,850;
16 September 2019 for £39,950 with funding undetermined.
The various complaint points raised included:
A had fraudulently represented the products purchased as investments;
A were not authorised to carry our finance brokering activities;
as an appointed representative of VFL, A were Not allowed to canvass off trade 
premises. They said VFLs premises were registered in the UK and so A had 
breached that restriction;
VFL (and A, as their representative) breached the rules and guidelines within 
CONC1;
A used outlawed sales techniques including high pressure tactics, aggressive 
behaviors, harassment and coercion;
A had failed to provide time to read the purchase agreements;
agreements were posted to Mr and Mrs Ms home address by A, arriving after the 
contractual withdrawal period; and
no affordability assessment was undertaken in relation to the loans agreed.
While VFL acknowledged Mr and Mrs Ms complaint in writing, a substantive response 
wasnt received. So, Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to this service. In doing so, they 
said their complaint and claim were made under sections 75 and 140A, B and C of the 
Consumer Credit Act 2006. They also provided details of their underlying concerns and 
1 The Consumer Credit Sourcebook  Part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook
referenced various laws, rules, regulations and guidance, with allegations of how they 
believed theyd been breached. 
In or around February 2022, VFL provided their written response to Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint. They didnt think Mr and Mrs M had provided evidence to support the various 
claims made and didnt agree either A or they had failed to comply with the various 
requirements referred to. In doing so, they didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Having considered everything Mr and Mrs M had said, together with the documentation 
provided, one of this services investigators didnt think the claims in respect of two of the 
purchases referred to could be considered. They couldnt find any evidence to suggest those 
purchases were, in fact, funded by VFL. But they did consider the purchase completed in or 
around October 2018.
In doing so, the investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs M were able to make a claim for 
misrepresentation under section 75 of the CCA (S75) as the purchase amount exceeded the 
limits covered under that provision. However, they did think the alleged misrepresentations, 
together with many of the other allegations, could be considered under section 140A of the 
CCA (S140A). Particularly if it was found they created an unfair relationship under those 
provisions.
Having considered that, the investigator thought Mr and Mrs complaint against VFL should 
be upheld. In particular, they were persuaded that Mr and Mrs Ms agreement to complete 
the purchase was influenced by representations made by A that were considered false and 
misleading. Furthermore, the investigator thought A appeared to have breached various 
regulations. And when combined with the misrepresentations, thought a court was likely to 
find this had created an unfair relationship under S140A.
The investigator thought VFL should cancel the Mr and Mrs Ms loan and refund all 
repayments made, adding 8% simple interest per annum. They also thought VFL should 
reimburse Mr and Mrs Ms cash contribution (subject to proof of payment) together with 8% 
interest. Finally, the investigator though VFL should reimburse Mr and Mrs M for any 
maintenance fees paid under the timeshare subject to proof of payment.
Although I cant find anything to show that Mr and Mrs M specifically accepted the 
investigators findings, they did acknowledge receiving them and didnt raise any further 
concerns. VFL rejected the investigators findings as they thought there was very little 
reference to documents which Mr and Mrs M wouldve signed. They also thought thered 
been no recognition of Mr and Mrs Ms previous and continued use of the timeshare 
membership including their agreement to changes in their membership in 2020.
As an informal agreement couldnt be reached, Mr and Mrs Ms complaint has been passed 
to me to consider and issue a decision.
Having considered the relevant information about this complaint, I reached a different 
outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, I issued a provisional decision (PD) on 
27 June 2023  giving Mr M, Mrs M and VFL the opportunity to respond to my findings 
before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP2 3.6.4R of the FCA3 Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
2 Dispute Resolution: the Complaints sourcebook (DISP)
3 Financial Conduct AuthorityS75 provides consumers with protection for goods or services bought using credit. 
Where Mr and Mrs M paid for their timeshare membership, having financed it with a 
restricted use regulated loan from VFL, they are afforded the protection offered to 
borrowers like them under those provisions  subject to any restrictions and 
limitations. So, Ive taken this section into account when deciding whats fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr M, Mrs M and VFL arising 
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreements). And 
because the product purchased was funded under the credit agreement, its deemed 
to be a related agreement. Only a court has the power to make a determination 
under S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe 
is fair and reasonable. 
Its important to distinguish between the complaint being considered here and the 
legal claim. The complaint referred to this service specifically relates to whether I 
believe VFLs response to Mr and Mrs Ms claim was fair and reasonable given all 
the evidence and information available to me. This service isnt afforded powers to 
determine any legal claim itself. That is the role of the courts.
The FCAs DISP rules specifically relate to complaints about regulated financial 
products or services and provide rules and guidance about what this service is able 
to consider. This services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution Service (ADR) is 
to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of an ombudsman 
can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont provide a legal service. 
And as Ive said above, this service isnt able to make legal findings  that is the role 
of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, it 
doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address, in my decision, every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Mr and Mrs Ms timeshare product experience
In referring their complaint to this service, Mr and Mrs M said their first experience of 
A was during a free holiday trip to a resort in 2008. During that trip, they said they 
attended the expected sales pitch and made their first of many unit purchases 
from A, receiving various discounts, benefits and vouchers. Mr and Mrs M also 
confirmed they subsequently visited the resort every year, some years twice, with 
the same lengthy high pressure sales meetings every time. They said theyd visited 
the resort 12 times between 2008 and 2018. They also appear to have made a 
further purchase in 2019. 
So, based upon this information, I think its reasonable to conclude that Mr and Mrs 
M had a reasonably strong awareness about the products theyd purchased, how 
they operated and any associated costs. I also think its reasonable to conclude that 
Mr and Mrs M were familiar with A (as a timeshare supplier) and the sales 
presentations given by them.
The claim for misrepresentation
Mr and Mrs Ms claim to VFL references three purchases they made from A. 
However, it appears the purchase made in or around August 2016 wasnt financed by 
VFL. It was financed by another business. Because of that, any claim under that agreement needs to be made to that business. So, Im unable to consider the 
circumstances of that purchase within my decision here as it doesnt appear to relate 
to VFL.
Furthermore, I also havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that Mr and Mrs Ms 
purchase from A, in or around September 2019, was funded under a loan agreement 
with VFL. So, Im not able to consider that element of Mr and Mrs As compliant 
either.
S75(3) says that Subsection (1)4 does not apply to a claim  (so far as any claim 
relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash price not 
exceeding £100 or more than £30,000[]. The cash price shown within the loan 
agreement in October 2018 was £65,500. As a consequence, I dont believe a valid 
claim can be made under S75. But it is possible that any misrepresentation could be 
considered under S140A if it was found to have resulted in an unfair debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship.
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
The court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (VFL) and the debtor (Mr and 
Mrs M) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court must have 
regard for anything done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor. So, I think the 
alleged misrepresentations were, therefore, relevant here. Even though I dont think 
they can be considered under S75 due to the restriction within S75(3).
Misrepresentation
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by A in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that A made false statements of fact when selling the holiday product to Mr 
and Mrs M in 2018. In other words, that they told them something that wasnt true in 
relation to one or more of any points raised. I would also need to be satisfied that any 
misrepresentation was material in inducing them to enter the contract. This means I 
would need to be persuaded that Mr and Mrs M reasonably relied upon any false 
statements when deciding to buy the timeshare product
The difficulty I have is identifying what was actually said at the time of the sale in 
2018. Mr and Mrs M have provided limited details and evidence to support the 
misrepresentations they say A made, although I acknowledge that they do say they 
were told these things. So, Ive thought about this and whether theres any evidence 
available from the time of their purchase in 2018. 
Mr and Mrs M told this service that A fraudulently represented the product as an 
investment. It was described as an investment in property [] thereby breaching The 
Timeshare Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 [the 
TRs] s.14(3) and creating an unfair relationship as defined by s.140 CCA.
Although not determinative of the matter, Ive seen limited specific evidence from the 
time of the sale in 2018, such as marketing material or any of the wider purchase or 
4 In relation a misrepresentation or breach of contract.membership documentation. I have seen a one-page document headed 
Membership Application Agreement together with a welcome letter addressed to Mr 
and Mrs M. They are both dated 24 October 2018  the date of the purchase. Theres 
also a copy of Mr and Mrs Ms credit application and a document headed Pre-
contract credit information. There doesnt appear to be anything within these 
documents to corroborate Mr and Mrs Ms allegation. And because of that, I cant 
reasonably reach the conclusion that Mr and Mrs A were told something by A that 
amounted to misrepresentation. Specifically, that A represented their purchase in 
2018 as an investment. 
Mr and Mrs M have also provided information from various reports and decisions 
relating to alleged breaches of legislation and regulations they believe applies here. 
However, these examples werent specific to Mr and Mrs Ms recollections of their 
own particular purchase. So, I dont think they offered much help in making factual 
findings in their particular case.
The sales process
Mr and Mrs M allege that A used illegal and outlawed sales techniques and, as a 
result, they were pressured into entering the agreement. I acknowledge what Mr and 
Mrs M say in their testimony about the length of sales presentations they attended. 
So, I can understand why its argued that the prolonged nature of these presentations 
might have felt like a pressured sale  especially if, as they approached the closing 
stages, they were going to have to make a decision on the day in order to avoid 
missing out on an offer that may not have been available at a later date.
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, I find 
it hard to argue that Mr and Mrs M agreed to the purchase in 2018 when they simply 
didnt want to. I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that they went on to say 
something to A, after the purchase, to suggest theyd agreed to it when they didnt 
want to. And they havent provided a credible explanation for why they didnt 
subsequently seek to cancel the purchase within the 14-day cooling off period usually 
permitted here. 
If they only agreed to the purchase because they felt they were pressured, I find this 
aspect difficult to reconcile with the allegation in question. I havent seen anything 
substantive to suggest Mr and Mrs M were obviously harassed or coerced into the 
purchase.  And because of that, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate they made the decision to proceed because their ability to exercise 
choice was  or was likely to have been  significantly impaired contrary to 
Regulation 7 of the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations (CPUT).
In deciding whether to make a determination under S140A, the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
[VFL] and matters relating to the debtor [Mr and Mrs M]).
Mr and Mrs M already held existing timeshare products theyd purchased previously 
from A. And theyve confirmed theyd attended many previous meetings and 
presentations with A. Importantly, this purchase appears to relate to an upgrade of 
their existing timeshare product holding. It wasnt a new product purchase. And Mr 
and Mrs M werent new customers. So, its likely they wouldve benefitted from their 
previous experience and what they might expect from the meeting and sales 
presentation in 2018.
Whilst there could be potential for a court to decide that some of the allegations might 
have led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship here, I think any decision is likely to 
be taken within the context of Mr and Mrs Ms overall experience. And even if I was 
to find that some of the information couldve been clearer during the sale  and I make no such finding  I think its unlikely a court might say this led to a sufficiently 
extreme imbalance in knowledge to render the debtor-creditor relationship unfair.
Time to consider the agreement(s)
Ive seen limited documentation from the time of the sale. But having previously seen 
similar documents relating to As product sales, Im aware they normally include a 
period of 14 days from the date of agreeing to the purchase within which to cancel 
the agreement without giving any reason  as required under the TRs. 
So, even if I were to find that Mr and Mrs M werent given adequate opportunity to 
read and consider the purchase documentation at the time of the sale - and I make 
no such finding - I would expect them to have had sufficient time in which to consider 
their decision within the subsequent 14 days. And, where appropriate, raise any 
questions or concerns before the loan was drawn and the purchase completed. 
Theres no suggestion or evidence that Mr and Mrs M did raise any questions or 
concerns prior to the sale being completed. Or that they had any intention of 
cancelling the agreement.
Mr and Mrs M allege they didnt receive any documentation at the time of the sale. 
Rather that this was posted to their home address three weeks after the purchase 
was agreed. In their response, VFL have denied this stating that upon the signing of 
any agreement, either a hard copy or soft copy of the original signed agreement is 
always given to the customer [by A]. 
To support Mr and Mrs Ms allegation here, at the very least I would expect to see 
some evidence they only received the documents three weeks after the product 
purchase was agreed. Alternatively, evidence that theyd contacted A about the 
alleged missing documentation. But I havent seen that here. So, I cant reasonably 
conclude that As actions here differed from their usual accepted process. Even if I 
were to find that Mr and Mrs M werent given time to consider the documents at the 
time of the sale - and I make no such finding - in the absence of any evidence to the 
contrary, I cant fairly conclude that there would have been any cause for making the 
relationship unfair under Section 140A.
Is Mr and Mrs Ms agreement null and void?
Various arguments have been made to support a belief that the timeshare and 
lending agreements here are null and void as a result of various alleged regulatory 
breaches. 
Specifically:
The authorised status of A  This services records show that A was registered as a 
representative of VFL from 25 April 2016. And VFL was authorised under this 
services compulsory jurisdiction from 31 March 2016 which means they held the 
required authorisation from the FCA. And as their representative, A was able to 
introduce credit business to them. So, I dont agree that A didnt hold the required 
authorisation to introduce business to VFL under section 19 of the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).
Canvassing off trade premises - Section 154 of the CCA says, It is an offence to 
canvass off trade premises the services of a person carrying on a business of credit-
brokerage []. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook defines 
canvassing off trade premises as:
(a) an activity by an individual (the canvasser) of soliciting the entry of 
another individual ("B") into an agreement by making oral representations to B 
during a visit by the canvasser to any place (other than a place in (b)) where B is, being a visit made by the canvasser for the purpose of making such oral 
representations. 
(b) a place where a business is carried on (whether on a permanent or temporary 
basis) by:
(i) the lender or owner; or
(ii) a supplier; or
(iii) the canvasser; or
(iv) a person who employs the canvasser or has appointed the canvasser 
as an agent; or
(v) B;
is excluded from (a).
Its my understanding that the sale, and resultant credit application, was completed at 
As offices/premises at the resort Mr and Mrs M were visiting. And given Ive 
established that A was a registered representative of VFL at the time of the sale, I 
think they were entitled to do that. So, I cant reasonably say there was a regulatory 
breach in doing so. 
Having considered the arguments put forward by Mr and Mrs M, I dont think there 
appears to be any circumstances, based upon the evidence available, that would 
likely lead to the agreement(s) being determined as null and void.
Were the required lending checks undertaken?
There are certain aspects of Mr and Mrs Ms claim that could be considered outside 
of S75 and S140A. In particular, in relation to whether VFL undertook a proper credit 
assessment. Mr and Mrs M have made an allegation suggesting the loan was 
provided irresponsibly. In particular that no affordability checks were undertaken by A 
or VFL.
Mr and Mrs M havent provided any evidence to show that the loan was unaffordable 
or unsuitable for them. And Ive not seen anything that supports any allegation of 
financial difficulty from that time. 
In their response to Mr and Mrs M, VFL said they followed their usual process and 
conducted an appropriate affordability assessment. But VFL havent provided specific 
details of the checks they undertook. So, If I were to find that they hadnt completed 
all the required checks and tests  and I make no such finding  I would need to be 
satisfied that had such checks been completed, they wouldve revealed that the loan 
repayments werent sustainably affordable for Mr and Mrs M in order to uphold their 
complaint here. 
I have seen a document headed Credit Application which appears to have been 
completed and signed by Mr and Mrs M at the time of the purchase. It includes their 
employment and income details together with details of their property value detailing 
no outstanding mortgage. However, with no other specific information about Mr and 
Mrs Ms actual position at the time and no supporting evidence that they struggled to 
maintain repayments, I cant reasonably conclude the loan was unaffordable for them 
or that they suffered loss as a consequence.
Summary 
I would like to reassure Mr and Mrs M that Ive carefully considered everything 
theyve said together with all the information theyve provided and referred to. I 
appreciate they will be disappointed, but in the absence of specific evidence from the 
time of the sale in 2018, for the reasons Ive said above, I cant reasonably say that VFLs decision to turn down their claim was unfair or unreasonable. Because of that, 
I currently dont intend to ask VFL to do anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VFL have neither acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision nor provided any further 
comment.
Mr and Mrs M have responded and agree that the purchases in August 2016 and September 
2019 werent funded by loans provided by VFL. But they have reiterated their allegation that 
the product purchased was represented as an investment for our future. They also took 
exception to my conclusion there was nothing to suggest the loan was unaffordable for them. 
They base their argument on an assertion they were told the purchase was an investment. 
And they say this time considered promise of a sale was taken into consideration by them 
when agreeing to take the loan. But I cant see anything suggesting their loan application 
was, or shouldve been, assessed on that basis.
Furthermore, the contract cant have been marketed and sold as an investment contrary to 
the TRs simply because there might have been some inherent value to Mr and Mrs Ms 
membership. And in any event, Ive found nothing within the evidence provided to suggest 
that A had provided any assurances or guarantees about the future value of the product they 
purchased. A would had to have presented the membership in such a way that used its 
investment element to persuade them to contract. Only then would it have fallen foul of the 
prohibition on marketing and selling certain holiday products as an investment, contrary to 
Regulation 14(3). 
In my PD, I said that I hadnt been provided with any evidence from the time of the sale to 
support the investment allegation. And thats still the case here. So, with nothing to 
corroborate Mr and Mrs Ms assertions, Im not persuaded to vary from my provisional 
findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman