DRN-1644931
 
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) wont refund the VAT on a 
replacement garage door following a claim under her buildings insurance.
What happened
Mrs P made a claim under her buildings insurance for a replacement garage door. L&G was 
unable to source a like for like replacement, which Mrs P was contractually obliged to have 
in her new build home. It offered a cash settlement so she could source the door, which she 
accepted. 
Mrs P asked whether it included VAT. L&G confirmed the payment was excluding VAT, 
which it would pay on production of a VAT invoice when the work was completed. She 
provided the invoice but L&G refused to pay the VAT because the full cost including VAT 
was less than it had already paid her.
Mrs P said L&G told her it would refund the VAT even if she had paid less than the invoice 
total. L&G didnt agree. She raised a complaint but L&G maintained that it had covered her 
loss.
Our investigator thought L&G had dealt with the claim fairly and he didnt uphold the 
complaint. While he thought L&G might not have been as clear as it couldve been when 
explaining the limitations of the cash settlement, he was satisfied that Mrs P had been put 
back in the position she was in before the loss.
Mrs P didnt agree. She thought that L&G should refund the VAT as it had said it would.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I realise Mrs P will be disappointed by my decision, 
but Im satisfied that L&G has dealt with the claim fairly. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute about the validity of the claim for the damaged garage door, or the fact 
that L&G and its representatives told Mrs P it would pay the VAT on receipt of a VAT invoice. 
The key issue is whether L&G should refund the VAT anyway now that its apparent the cash 
settlement was more than the invoice total, including VAT.
Ive rounded the following figures for ease.
Mrs P accepted a cash settlement of £2600 for her garage door because L&G was unable to 
source an identical match. By doing this, Mrs P had relieved L&G of its responsibility for replacing the door. When she asked L&G about a further payment for VAT, it confirmed it 
would refund it on receipt of a VAT invoice. Thats a reasonable response and I think its 
likely L&G assumed the VAT would take the cost of work above the cash settlement. 
The work cost £1750, plus £350 VAT, bringing the total amount to £2100. Mrs P sent the 
invoice to L&G but it refused to refund the VAT because it had already paid her more than 
the invoice total. I think L&Gs response was reasonable. Its responsibility was to put Mrs P 
back in the position shed been in before the loss - so before her garage door was damaged. 
She had a new garage door and L&G had already paid her £500 more than she paid for the 
door to be replaced. L&G wasnt asking her to return the overpayment but it was refusing to 
pay an additional £350, which wouldve left Mrs P £850 in profit.
Insurance policies are to cover loss: they are not there to provide a profit for the policyholder. 
I understand that Mrs P believes L&G said it would refund the VAT even if she had paid less 
than the cash settlement. Ive not seen any evidence of that. But, regardless of whether it 
did, I wouldnt expect it to pay £850 for a mistake of that nature.
In summary, L&G has paid Mrs P £500 more than she paid for her replacement door and its 
not asking for that back. Theres no reason for L&G to pay any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17July2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman