DRN-4213181
The complaint
Miss F, who is represented by a third party, complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
(Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted her a conditional sale agreement (agreement) she 
couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In March 2018, Miss F acquired a used car financed by an agreement from Moneybarn. 
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Miss F undertook to make 
an advance payment of £400.00 followed by 59 monthly repayments of £229.81. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £13,958.79 at an APR of 52.9%.
Miss F says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said 
that it carried a search of Miss Fs credit file, checked her income against two recent payslips 
and carried out an affordability calculation, all of which demonstrated Miss F had:
a monthly (net) income of £1,070.26
existing borrowing which was within its lending criteria
no recent missed payments
a strong ability to meet her credit commitments
defaulted on previous borrowing, but the most recent default was 46 months old
no CCJs registered against her
no insolvency proceedings pending
the ability to pay £267.50 a month against a proposed payment of £229.81
Moneybarn also pointed out that Miss F signed to say that the payments under the 
agreement were affordable and that she didnt envisage anything that would prevent her 
from making all the required payments on time.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Fs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. 
He thought Moneybarn didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in approving the finance.
Miss F didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn and Miss Fs appointed representative will be familiar with all the rules, 
regulations and good industry practice we consider when looking at a complaint concerning 
unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out 
in this decision. Information about our approach to these complaints is set out on our 
website.
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Miss F about her income. I say this because it verified her income by 
checking two recent payslips. But like the adjudicator, and for the same reasons, I think that 
it would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have obtained more evidence and 
information from Miss F about her expenditure.
One of the ways that Moneybarn could have verified Miss Fs expenditure was by reviewing 
bank statements and/or by completing an income and expenditure form. While Moneybarn 
wasnt required to do either, Ive reviewed Miss Fs bank statements for the period 
12 December 2017 to 14 March 2018. I think this gives me a good indication of what 
Moneybarn would likely have found out had it completed proportionate checks.
Like the adjudicator said in his view, Miss Fs bank statements show an income of more than 
£1,070.26 and very little by way of what could be described as non-discretionary 
expenditure. So, in my view, further checks by Moneybarn wouldnt have, nor should it have, 
caused it to conclude it shouldnt lend.
Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed. So, like the adjudicator 
and for the sake of completeness Ive considered the content of the credit report Miss F has 
provided our service dated 1 January 2023. Now I appreciate the limitations of relying on a 
credit report dated some five years after March 2018, but this report doesnt lead me to 
conclude that what Moneybarn says its credit check uncovered in March 2018 cant be 
relied upon. 
The investigator noted that Miss Fs supplied credit report has a default recorded dated 
March 2017. However, I think this might be a reporting error given that the status history for 
this line of credit shows a default date of September 2018 with no status being reported prior 
to this date. But even if Im wrong on this point I dont think this, in itself, would have been 
grounds for Moneybarn to conclude it shouldnt lend, especially given the market in which it 
operates.
I appreciate Miss F will be disappointed but taking everything into account Im satisfied that 
Moneybarn didnt act unfairly in approving her finance application. However, I would remind 
it of its obligation to treat Miss F  if she is in financial difficulties  fairly and with due 
consideration and forbearance going forward.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman