DRN-3016606
The complaint
Mr A complains Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt engage constructively with him which resulted 
in his personal loans being defaulted.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Between 2018 and 2019 Mr A took out three loans with Barclays. The combined contractual 
repayments were about £850 a month. On 18 March 2020 Mr A called Barclays. I have 
listened to a recording of this call. 
In brief, Mr A explained he was due to start a new job, but it had been delayed until 
1 May 2020 because of Covid-19. He asked for a hold on his loan repayments. Barclays 
agreed to an informal arrangement and explained arrears would be reported to the credit 
reference agencies (CRAs). It asked Mr A to get in touch when he knew how much hed 
get paid from 1 May 2020 so a full income and expenditure exercise could be completed and 
a longer-term plan could be agreed, which would likely include loan term extensions. 
Barclays made it clear if Mr A didnt make contact the arrangement would stay in place and 
the loans would eventually default, and that it was Mr As responsibility to make contact and 
get the loans up to date to stop this happening.
Barclays actions here were fair and reasonable. Mr A asked for a short-term hold on his 
loan repayments, and he got one. The consequences of not making repayments were made 
clear, as was what would need to happen going forward. Its also worth noting at this point 
guidance around Covid-related payments deferrals hadnt been issued by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA).
Barclays sent letters for each loan following the call. These said, in summary, it would accept 
no repayments on the loans, but the accounts wouldnt be able to remain open and it was 
likely default notices would be issued around mid-August 2020. Barclays also sent Mr A 
arrears notices when contractual repayments were missed. Mr A says he didnt get this 
correspondence, but they seem to have been correctly addressed. In any case, Mr A ought 
to have known from what he was told in the March 2020 call he needed to take some action, 
but he didnt contact Barclays in April, May, June or July 2020.
In August 2020 Mr As loans were several months in arrears and Barclays hadnt heard from 
Mr A, so it issued default notices  as it said it would. These set out the need for Mr A to 
clear his loan arrears or agree a payment arrangement with Barclays. The default notices 
prompted a call from Mr A on 26 August 2020. I dont have a recording of this call. But I do 
have Barclays contemporaneous notes. These show Mr A didnt understand why he had 
received default notices as he thought he was in a payment holiday. They further show Mr A 
said his job had been delayed until 16 September 2020 and he thought he would be able to 
make his contractual repayments following this date. Barclays said it would look into whether 
Mr A could have a payment holiday applied retrospectively and call him back. 
Barclays didnt call Mr A back. But Mr A didnt get back in touch with Barclays either. He 
says he tried but couldnt get through to anyone that could assist him and has said he 
experienced wait times of more than 40 minutes on two occasions. I think its most likely, 
however, he would have been able to get through to someone able to assist him if hed 
made a concerted effort. Long wait times are frustrating, but when matters are 
important/urgent - as was the case here - there is a need to persevere. Instead of doing so, 
Mr A sent a complaint letter on 16 September 2020. As the default notices werent satisfied 
by their deadlines the loans were defaulted. 
In response to the complaint Barclays spoke with Mr A a couple of times in 
mid-October 2020. In brief, it came to light Mr A wasnt due to start work until 
November 2020, meaning he wouldnt get paid until December 2020, and it was unclear 
what his net income would be. He was dependent on government support in the meantime 
and therefore couldnt afford to make meaningful repayments towards the loan arrears. In 
short, Mr As circumstances meant a payment arrangement couldnt be agreed. Barclays 
issued a final response letter on 22 October 2020 confirming its position. This included 
apologising for not calling Mr A back in August 2020 and offering him £50 compensation.
Ive considered whether Barclays should have retrospectively applied a Covid-related 
payment deferral following Mr As August 2020 call. A Covid-related payment deferral 
allowed customers directly impacted by Covid to make no repayments for three months. 
During this period interest is still payable and arrears continue to accrue, but a customers 
credit file isnt impacted. The FCA later said customers could apply for a further three-month 
payment deferral, which lenders should accept if it was in the customers best interests. 
But here, Mr A entered into an arrangement before the guidance came out and he didnt ask 
for a Covid-related payment deferral until several months later. By this point his loans were 
already on the verge of defaulting and there was no clear path to him paying the arrears or 
making contractual repayments going forward. So Im not persuaded retrospectively applying 
a payment deferral would have been in Mr As best interests. 
In any case, even if I considered two consecutive three-month payment deferrals should 
have been retrospectively applied - meaning Mr A wouldnt have needed to make 
repayments in March, April, May, June, July and August 2020 - Im not persuaded he would 
be in a materially different position. I say this because he would have needed to start making 
repayments in September 2020, and as he remained out of work, he wouldnt have been 
able to, meaning the loans defaulting was most likely inevitable. I further note, albeit with the 
benefit of hindsight, Mr A didnt return to work until February 2021.   
Mr A says Barclays didnt engage constructively with him. He says he made it clear to 
Barclays in August 2020 he would do anything to avoid the loans defaulting, such as using 
savings as well as family and friends to assist him. Hes provided a letter and bank 
statement from his brother to show his family would, and could, have helped him. But the 
facts of the case dont support his position. If he could - with support - have paid the arrears 
or started making repayments, it begs the question  why didnt he? 
From the March 2020 call Mr A ought to have known he needed to take some action by 
May 2020. But he didnt. When he received the default notices in August 2020, he appears 
to have wanted a deadline extension to allow him to get back into work  theres no record of 
him offering to pay the arrears or start making repayments. In his September 2020 complaint letter, he doesnt offer to pay the arrears or start making repayments. Instead he says: I am 
still affected by the Coronavirus, but will receive notification this Friday about a new job, 
which will enable me to resume payments and avoid going into default. Mr A doesnt appear 
to have offered to pay the arrears or start making repayments in his October 2020 calls with 
Barclays either. If Mr A wanted to pay the arrears or start making repayments, Barclays 
wouldnt have stopped him. I think the confusion here is Mr A wanted a payment 
arrangement, but as he had minimal income, this wasnt something Barclays could agree to.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays treated Mr A fairly and reasonably and that the defaults 
related to his loans should stand. Barclays should have called Mr A back as it agreed to in 
the August 2020, but I consider the apology and offer of £50 compensation a fair remedy for 
this failure.
My final decision
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr A £50 compensation, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman