DRN-3015241
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Miss B bought solar panels for her home in 2013. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Miss B into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Shawbrook made an offer to settle the complaint. But it didnt take into account that Miss B 
had settled her loan with Shawbrook early by taking out finance with a different provider. 
Miss B felt the offer did not fully compensate her for her losses.  
Miss Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Miss B, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. He explained Shawbrook should take into account the losses Miss B incurred 
with the refinance loan she took with an alternative provider in order to fully compensate her. 
Shawbrook didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Miss B was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Shawbrook didnt treat Miss B fairly and she lost out because of what 
Shawbrook did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Shawbrook needs to do to put things right for Miss B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Bs complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Miss B from the solar 
panels over the term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Miss B is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have Shawbrook needs to reimburse Miss B accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Miss B by way of explanation.  
I understand Miss B has settled the loan early, so Shawbrook offered to pay Miss B the 
difference between what she paid in total and what the loan should have been under the 
restructure above, with 8% interest.
But Miss B has said she settled the loan by refinancing. As our adjudicator explained, 
because Miss B has settled the loan by refinancing, I think Miss B should supply evidence of 
the refinance to Shawbrook, and Shawbrook should: 
1. Refund the extra Miss B paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Miss B receives her refund.
3. Refund the extra Miss B paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Miss B receives her refund.
5. Pay Miss B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Miss B first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld and redress offered in 
line with our well-established approach (as described above). I direct that Shawbrook should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman