DRN-3395057
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) did not provide him with the option to 
clear the outstanding debt on his overdraft and avoid a default being recorded on his credit 
file. 
What happened
Mr H complained to Santander that it failed to explain all the options available to him when 
he called it up following the receipt of a default notice regarding his overdraft debt and pay 
down arrangement.
Santander agreed its service wasnt as it should have been and that the advisor didnt 
acknowledge prior notes on the account or provide any options when discussing an 
arrangement. However, Santander felt that even if Mr H was given the option to pay back his 
debt and avoid the default from the information it had it didnt think Mr Hs circumstances 
were such that hed have been able to pay back a high enough amount to avoid a default.
Despite this to put things right Santander offered two options:
1. Setting up an arrangement to clear the balance. This would be a monthly amount 
that would be suitable for you, over a set period of time. Provided this arrangement is 
met, once the default balance is £0.00 we would then re-examine the situation and 
make another decision at that time at whether we would remove the default.
2. Paying the balance outright If the balance were cleared in full we would remove 
the default under the logic that if that is an option now, it was in all likelihood an 
option in October and you were not given a chance to suggest this or discuss it due 
to the poor call handling we displayed on 27 October...
Santander also explained that although the second option would remove the default Mr Hs 
credit record would still show adverse data as prior to when Mr H was mis-advised and the 
error occurred, his account had been overdrawn for an extended period of time and this 
would still show on his credit report.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Hs concerns and reached the conclusion that the 
options Santander had provided Mr H with were reasonable and didnt require it to do 
anything more. 
Mr H dis-agreed, he would like all adverse date removed from his credit file. So the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation 
that we think is fair and reasonable.
Santander has already agreed that Mr H was mis-advised and offered him two options to 
correct the situation. Whatever option Mr H decides to go with Santander will put him in the 
place he wouldve been as if the mistake hadnt happened.
Mr H is unhappy because with either option he will still have adverse information showing on 
his credit file.  But Santander has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its 
customers affairs to the credit reference agencies (CRAs) it subscribes to is factually 
accurate. And from what I understand even before Mr H was mis-advised he was in a pay 
down arrangement for his outstanding overdraft debt and had missed payments. So I cant 
say that Santander would be doing anything wrong in allowing this information to remain as it 
is a true reflection of how Mr H managed his account.
Mr H may be concerned that the information recorded on his credit file may affect his ability 
to borrow money and his future financially. He might be interested to know that he can place 
a Notice of Correction on his credit records. The purpose of such a notice is to allow 
someone the opportunity to add any explanatory circumstances that they would like 
prospective lenders to take into consideration when making lending decisions. If he wishes 
to do this, he should contact the credit reference agencies directly.
So I dont think that Santander treated Mr H unfairly or unreasonably as it offered to put 
things right by giving the options that should have been available to him when he was 
misadvised and putting him back in the position he wouldve been in if the mistake hadnt 
happened and this means that Im not upholding this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint and Im not asking 
Santander UK Plc to do anything more.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman