DRN-2335829
The complaint
Miss G complains that Car Finance247 Limited (Car Finance) increased her monthly 
repayments by adding an admin fee to her Hire Purchase Agreement. And carried out a 
second credit search without her authorization. She would like compensation, and for her 
payments to be changed back to her original quote
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on the reasons for my decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigator for the following reasons: -
The additional £150 fee Miss G incurred was explained in one phone call as paying 
for road cover bits including the warranty. So, I can understand why Miss G felt she 
had been charged for something she understood came free with the car. Its 
unfortunate she was mis informed, but she hasnt been charged for something she 
expected to be free - the fee was  just an administrative one. 
Miss G opted to pay the £150 admin fee by making a £100 payment and adding the 
£50 to the finance agreement. This was confirmed in a phone call I listened to. So, I 
think Miss G would have known this would increase her repayments. As I understand 
the payments increased by sixty pence per month. 
Miss G was originally quoted a monthly repayment fee of £185.29 but it was stressed 
that this was provisional and might change. The final repayment figure was confirmed 
in a call as £212. 95.. The increase was due to a change in the APR plus the sixty 
pence per month from £50 of the admin fee being added to the finance agreement If 
Miss G wasnt happy with this quote she didnt have to go ahead with the agreement. 
In terms of the credit searches I have no evidence to show that Car Finance did 
anything other than its usual credit searches. It carried out a credit search when Miss 
G first made enquires in November 2019 and again in in January 2020 when Miss G 
made further enquiries as the previous search was no longer valid. And it has 
confirmed it would be usual process to do a further credit search at the pay-out stage.
Miss G says the credit searches have impacted on her credit rating and caused her 
financial hardship, but she hasnt given us any evidence of this. There might be any 
number of reasons that have impacted on her credit rating not just searches by Car 
Finance . 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman