DRN-3722592
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc are responsible for some of the delays in
transferring his Cash Individual Savings Account (ISA) to a third party bank.
What happened
Mr C says he visited a third party bank on 17 September 2021 to open a Cash ISA and to
transfer his HSBC ISA to the newly opened third party ISA. He says the third party bank told
him the ISA transfer should take no more than 15 working days to complete from the date of
request.
After being told by the third party bank on 22 October, that continual requests for the transfer
were being made to HSBC and being rejected, with no reason given, Mr C visited a HSBC
branch and spoke to the manager about this, who informed Mr C she would need to make
further enquiries. The manager then rang Mr C later that day to explain that she was unable
to tell him why the transfer had been rejected, but she had got the transfer status changed
from rejected to outstanding.
One week later, on 29 October, Mr C received a call from HSBC. The call handler asked Mr
C to contact the third party bank to attempt the transfer again. Mr C asked the call handler
why there had been a problem and he was told there was a system constraint. Mr C says he
visited the third party bank on 1 November and they deemed it necessary for him to
complete a second ISA transfer request, which he completed.
Mr C says by 22 November he had still heard nothing about the transfer, so he rang HSBC,
but each time he was asked for his sort code and account number, he got a message saying
the account did not exist. Around this date, Mr C says he received an ISA statement from
HSBC, which shows the account was closed on 4 November. Mr C became very worried
about his money as neither bank seemed to hold the funds. He said transfer requests from
the third party bank were continually being rejected by HSBC.
Mr C complained to HSBC. He received a response which told him that the closure had been
completed on 4 November 2021 and the funds were sent to the third party bank by cheque. 
He was urged to contact the third party bank for further information on the processing of the
cheque. On 16 December, Mr C received a message from the third party bank to confirm
that the funds had been received from HSBC and they had been paid into his ISA account.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. He said the purpose of his complaint was to
establish why HSBC had not offered any explanation for their role in what has been a very
traumatic and deeply troubling three months. He asked why HSBC constantly rejected the
third party transfer requests. He also says that HSBC should accept responsibility for the
initial six week delay.
Before our investigator could issue a view into what happened, HSBC offered Mr C £100
compensation. HSBC said that it was not clear why they rejected the ISA transfer requested
on 23 September. They added that the third party bank were responsible for processing the
cheque upon receipt of it.
Mr C said the offer was derisory and said he would like them to explain the relevance of the
telephone call he received from HSBC on 29 October asking him to request the third party
bank to retry the transfer, he asked why they did not convey this directly to the third party
bank, instead of being told the continued rejection was the result of a system constraint. He
said that his understanding is that HSBC were clearly and solely responsible for the first six
week delay caused by their continual rejection of the transfer request and therefore they
should provide a thorough explanation and this issue caused him a lot of distress and
sleepless nights over a two month period without HSBC taking any action. He said it took an
email to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) to make them take action and he had spent a
substantial amount of time on the phone/sending emails and texts/visiting the branch, to get
the issue resolved, resulting in him having to cancel a number of engagements he had.
Our investigator felt the £100 offer of compensation was fair. She stressed that as the
complaint was against HSBC, she was only able to look into their role in the transfer
process, even though there were two banks involved here. She explained that although
HSBC had initially rejected the transfer, it would generally be the new ISA provider who
would be responsible for chasing the payment from the previous ISA provider. She said the
third party bank didnt recontact HSBC until 14 October 2021, when they said the transfer
request had been abandoned.
Our investigator said that HSBC received a new ISA transfer request on 1 November
2021. HSBC contacted Mr Cs new provider to check which address they should send the
cheque to and a cheque for the full balance of his account was sent to this address on 4
November. HSBC therefore closed the account he held with them. But on 23 November,
HSBC received the same cheque as itd been returned by Mr Cs new provider  the notes
confirmed there was no reason provided for why the cheque had been returned. She said on
2 December, his new provider once again marked the transfer request as abandoned and
the case notes suggest that HSBC contacted Mr Cs new provider by phone on 6 December,
to establish what the problem had been. They asked HSBC to re-send the cheque, which
HSBC did on 7 December.
Mr C asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In
summary, he said a call handler for the third party bank informed him that the transfer
requests were being submitted to HSBC weekly on a Monday, each request was allowed
five days to be processed, HSBC subsequently rejected the transfer and the third party bank
resubmitted the requests the following Monday. Mr C said he was unaware that the transfer
request had been abandoned, but he received a text from the third party bank on 2
December that HSBC had told the third party bank that they were unable to carry out the
transfer and they had cancelled the request. He said that the third party bank attempted to
speak with HSBC on a number of occasions without being able to speak to them. Mr C said
that if HSBC spoke to the person who called him on 29 October, then they would be able to
find out what the system constraint was and the matter could easily be resolved.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must make it clear to Mr C at the outset that I am only able to focus on the role that HSBC
had in the events that transpired in the transferring of his Cash ISA from HSBC to the third
party bank. This is because this complaint is about HSBC only. Im aware that Mr C brought
a separate complaint to our service about the third party bank, however I wont be able to
comment on this, as the complaint Im looking into is about the actions of HSBC only. Where
I do comment on things Mr C has told us about what the third party bank has told him, this isonly in the context of explaining what HSBC have done/not done on certain points hes
raised.
Mr C has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. Ive split
my findings into sections below to help with the readability of my decision.
The initial rejection of the transfer
Ive looked at all of the information regarding why the initial transfer request was rejected. I
know Mr C is particularly interested in finding out why the initial request was rejected. And
Im persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that the initial transfer request was rejected
due to human error with how the ISA transfer was processed, and Ill explain why.
Ive taken a thorough look at the system information that Ive been provided with. I can see
that from the initial transfer message that the third party bank sent HSBC, that the third party
bank sent the request to them on 20 September. But on the 23 September, a system note is
added by a HSBC colleague to show account not transferrable. Ive looked at HSBCs
website for the type of Cash ISA he held and I can see no restrictions, therefore Im
persuaded that the member of staff who entered the note had mistaken Mr Cs account for
an account which couldnt be transferred when it could be.
This system note was followed up with a response to the third party banks initial transfer that
they had rejected the ISA transfer with the reason as RjctAcctStsTrfErr, which refers to the
account status. Ive also compared the rejected full request from the third party bank on 20
September and the successful transfer full request from the third party bank they sent and
apart from the Unique Reference Number (URN) of the transfer, the information the third
party bank provided was identical. So therefore, Im persuaded the initial transfer was
rejected due to a human error with the HSBC staff saying Mr Cs ISA was not transferrable
when it was.
Events between the rejected ISA transfer and 22 October 2021
Although Im satisfied that HSBC were responsible for the initial error, and this will have
delayed Mr Cs ISA being transferred to his new provider. Im not persuaded that they are
responsible for any delays between sending the message to the third party bank on 23
September-22 October and Ill explain why.
As HSBC had rejected the transfer (incorrectly) and informed the third party bank of this on
23 September, the onus would be on the new provider to open the lines of communication
with HSBC. I would not expect HSBC to follow this up as they werent aware they had made
an error in rejecting this transfer at this stage. In addition, HSBC received an electronic
message on 14 October from the third party bank to say that the status of the ISA transfer
request had been abandoned. So again, I would not expect HSBC to take any further action
here when theyve been told the request has been abandoned.
I will cover off what Mr C has said about the third party bank telling him about them
resubmitting requests each Monday and allowing five days for these to be processed in a
later section.
Events between 22 October-29 October 2021
On 22 October 2021, Mr C visited a branch of HSBC to find out the status of the transfer and
the branch manager told him she needed to make further enquiries. Im persuaded that thisis the first time HSBC were aware that something was not right. I can see from HSBCs
internal notes that a member of staff called the ISA team on this date (presumably the
branch manager). She then phoned Mr C back to make him aware that they were able to
change the status.
I can see that a HSBC member of staff emailed a department of the third party bank on 24
October, 26 October and 27 October regarding resubmitting the ISA transfer request, but he
does not appear to have received a response from the third party. So Im persuaded that this
is the reason why Mr C received a phone call from HSBC when the member of staff did not
appear to receive a response from the third party bank department. Im not persuaded that
HSBC were at fault for any delays this week as they had tried to ask the third party bank to
resubmit the ISA request and they were proactive in ringing Mr C when they had no
response from the third party bank, even though the onus would usually be on the new
provider to chase up the transfer.
Ive listened to the call Mr C had with the call handler on 29 October. The call handler
informs Mr C that they hadnt received a response from the third party bank, so he suggests
that Mr C contacts the third party bank for them to resubmit the ISA request. Mr C asks for a
reason why the transfer has been rejected and the call handler tells Mr C he is not sure the
reason why it got rejected. Ive then looked at the notes which the call handler has left on the
system and the call handler does say he is not sure the exact reason for the rejection. I say
this as Mr C has said that if HSBC contacted the staff member who called him on 29
October, they would be able to find out exactly why the transfer was rejected, but it appears
the call handler he spoke to was not aware of the exact reason.
Events between 1 November  7 December 2021
I can see that HSBC received a request from the third party bank on 1 November. I can see
that HSBC added a note onto the system to explain to any colleague viewing this record that
a new request was received and to not reject this request. On 3 November I can see notes
on the system that a cheque had been produced. On 4 November, there are further notes to
say they had called the new provider and documented who they spoke to and that she
confirmed the address that HSBC were to send the cheque to. A further system note shows
that this was sent to the new provider on 4 November via special delivery.
On 23 November, HSBCs system notes confirm that the cheque was returned to them with
no reason from the third party bank. It then appears that HSBC sent a message to the third
party bank on 29 November informing them Mr Cs account had already been closed. The
third party bank then sent HSBC a message on 2 December updating HSBC that the status
of the transfer was abandoned.
HSBCs system notes show that on 6 December 2021, HSBC called the third party provider,
who informed them to resend them the cheque along with a cover letter and I can see that
HSBC did this on 7 December 2021.
Other considerations
Ive considered what Mr C has said about HSBC being responsible for the initial six weeks of
delays. While Im satisfied HSBC were responsible, either through a system error or a
human error for the incorrect initial rejection of the transfer, Im not persuaded that they were
responsible for the first six weeks of delays. Ive considered that Mr C said that a call handler
from the third party bank informed him that the transfer requests were being submitted to
HSBC weekly on a Monday, each request was allowed five days to be processed, HSBC
subsequently rejected and resubmitted the requests the following Monday. But Ive seen no
evidence that HSBC had received any other transfer requests apart from 20 September and1 November.
The evidence suggests that if HSBC were receiving a transfer request each week, then this
would be showing on their system. But HSBC have confirmed that they received no other
requests from the third party bank other than the messages they have already sent us. Im
also persuaded that if this was the case then HSBC wouldnt have received a message from
the new provider on 14 October (which was within four weeks of the initial request and was
three weeks after HSBC told them they had rejected the initial transfer) informing HSBC that
the ISA transfer request had been abandoned. It also doesnt explain why Mr C wasnt asked
to submit a new transfer application until weeks after the initial request was rejected until 1
November.
It appears that when Mr C made HSBC aware that there was an issue on 22 October, that
they had been proactive in trying to help Mr C, by emailing the third party bank on three
occasions and then when they had no response, they called Mr C.
The third party bank have said they attempted to speak with HSBC on a number of
occasions without being able to speak to them, I asked HSBC about this. HSBC said that its
possible the third party bank had attempted to ring them but due to hold times they didnt
wait to speak to them. They also confirmed they had no other messages or contact notes
from the new provider. But, when HSBC were aware of an issue after Mr C had spoken to
them on 22 October, HSBC did manage to make contact with the third party bank via phone
and spoke to them to confirm the address for the cheque and spoke to them when the
cheque was sent back to them.
Ive noted the impact that the series of events had on Mr C. There is no doubt that this had a
big impact on him and he believed at one point that the substantial amount of money he was
transferring had been lost, not to mention sleepless nights and the fact he shouldnt have
been required to find out what was happening as often as he did do. But when considering
what is fair compensation for Mr C, I can only look at awarding him compensation based on
the error or errors that HSBC have made.
Ive previously went into great detail earlier in this decision, why Im persuaded that HSBC
were at fault for the initial transfer rejecting. So Im satisfied that Mr C should be paid
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused him. In deciding what would be
a fair and reasonable amount to award, Ive also considered the actions they have taken and
if they have tried to mitigate the impact this had on Mr C.
HSBC informed the third party bank within three days that they had rejected the request, but
the evidence suggests that they did not hear anything from the third party bank (despite what
Mr C had been told by them) until 14 October. So I cant hold HSBC responsible for this
delay as it would be out of their control how long it would take a third party bank to be in
touch with them.
But as this message did not require HSBC to do anything (as they were told the request had
been abandoned), then I cant hold HSBC responsible for the delays around this time. I say
this as when they were aware that something was wrong when Mr C made them aware of
this, they took action, behind the scenes over the following week which led to the phone call
with Mr C on 29 October.
Mr C has said that its only when he emailed the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), which made
HSBC take action, but Im not persuaded by this. As Ive already mentioned, HSBC were
already taking action behind the scenes from when he visited the branch on 22 October,
which was before he emailed the CEO on 26 November.At times, Im persuaded that HSBC could have been clearer to Mr C about what was
happening, especially when he was communicating with them. I say this as HSBC had told
Mr C on an email on 30 November that the new provider would apply his funds. But HSBC
had already received the cheque back from the third party bank by this time. If Mr C was told
HSBC had received the cheque back then he may have been able to contact the third party
bank earlier than when HSBC did speak to them on 6 December to rectify the issue.
HSBC offered Mr C £100 compensation, but Im not persuaded that this recognises the
impact that the initial error would have had on Mr C. In considering what would be a fair and
reasonable amount of compensation, Im persuaded that £150 would be reasonable. I say
this as Im persuaded this reflects the impact that the initial error would have had on Mr C. I
say this as HSBC set off a chain of events which may have been avoidable if the initial
transfer wasnt rejected in error. While the onus would be on the new provider to chase up
the transfer, Mr C did take his time to visit a HSBC branch and speak to the manager to alert
them that the transfer had been incorrectly rejected. This would have inconvenienced him,
so Im satisfied the compensation reflects his inconvenience and the distress the initial error
caused him. So it follows that I intend to ask HSBC to put things right for Mr C.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. HSBC accepted the provisional decision. Mr C said he had nothing to add to the 
provisional decision, but he made a procedural point.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will ask our investigator to forward my response to Mr Cs procedural point separately, as 
this is not about the merits of his complaint about HSBC directly. 
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr C £150 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman