DRN-4197615
The complaint
Miss W complained that a watch she deposited with Hopkins & Jones Ltd (HJ) was 
devalued by its handling of the watch. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will just provide an overview 
of relevant key events here. 
In December 2020, Miss W took out a loan with HJ against a Rolex watch owned by her. 
The loan amount was £2,200 and was for a six-month period. Miss W redeemed the watch 
after four months, in April 2021, paying a total of £528 interest. 
When Miss W visited HJ in June 2021, with the intention of collecting the watch, she found 
that protective transparent factory stickers and a tag had been removed from the watch. HJ 
told Miss W this happened when it carried out a monthly audit of items deposited with it. 
Miss W became concerned that the removal of the stickers might have devalued the watch, 
and that members of staff might have worn it. Miss W left the watch with HJ. 
HJ agreed to allow an independent appraiser, chosen by Miss W, to examine the watch. In 
June 2021 the appraiser concluded that the watch had not lost any value by having the 
stickers and tag removed. Miss W was concerned that the appraiser knew HJ and wasnt 
happy with his conclusion. She complained to HJ about the handling of the watch and about 
a letter from HJ that was incorrectly addressed and was delivered to a neighbours home. 
Miss W said she visited a different lender a couple of days later, with a view to getting the 
watch valued. She said this lender told her there were scratch marks on the back of the 
watch, where the strap might have been removed. Miss W was concerned that this damage 
might have been caused by HJs handling of the watch. 
HJ responded to Miss Ws complaint and said the appraiser established the watch had not 
lost any market value due to the removal of the stickers and tag. He also matched the watch 
to the documents provided, confirming it belonged to Miss W. HJ acknowledged the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Miss W, as a result of the stickers and tag being removed, and 
offered to reimburse the £528 interest paid by her. HJ also acknowledged that a letter sent 
by it to Miss W was incorrectly addressed. 
Miss W remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this Service. She provided us with 
details of her difficult personal circumstances and health conditions. Miss W said this matter 
had caused her a great deal of distress. She said that prior to leaving the watch with HJ, it 
was in pristine condition and had never been worn. Miss W said she wanted HJ to pay the 
full value of the original watch.   
Our Investigator didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. He said the photographs and video 
footage provided by Miss W were not clear enough for him to be able to determine whether 
scuffs and scratches were already present before the watch was given to HJ. He said he 
took into consideration what the independent appraiser said, and there was nothing to 
suggest Miss Ws watch lost value because of the actions of HJ. Our Investigator said HJs 
offer to reimburse the interest paid was fair. 
Miss W was unhappy with what our Investigator said, so this came to me for a decision. 
I contacted HJ as I could see that when Miss W first made a complaint to it, she hadnt 
complained about the scratches she said she later found on the watch. This meant HJ hadnt 
addressed this particular complaint point in its final response letter. HJ consented to this 
Service looking into all complaint points raised by Miss W. 
I issued a provisional decision on 18 May 2023. I said I didnt intend to uphold Miss Ws 
complaint as the video evidence submitted by Miss W showed that the watch was not in 
pristine condition when it was deposited with HJ. I said I didnt think it would be fair to say 
that HJ should be held accountable for any scratches on the watch that were noticed after it 
was picked up, when its clear there were scratches on the watch prior to it being deposited 
with it. I gave both parties the opportunity to respond. 
Miss W responded and did not agree with the findings in the provisional decision. She said 
she was concerned that some pieces of information  such as what she thought HJ had 
admitted responsibility for, what HJ staff said about the condition of the watch, and that HJ 
and the appraiser didnt disclose that they knew one another  were overlooked. 
HJ agreed with the outcome in the provisional decision. I am now in a position to issue a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of Miss Ws comments following the provisional decision, I want to reassure her that I 
have looked at and considered all of the evidence provided by both parties, even if I have 
not referred to each and every point made or piece of evidence provided. This reflects the 
informal nature of this Service. 
Both parties agree that the transparent stickers and tag on Miss Ws watch were in place 
when Miss W deposited the watch with HJ, and that they had been removed by the time she 
returned to collect the watch. I can certainly see why Miss W would have been concerned 
about whether the removal of the stickers and tag from her watch had any effect on the 
value of her watch. 
Although I havent seen a copy of his report  neither party has a copy  both Miss W and 
HJ agree that the appraiser who inspected the watch in June 2021 concluded that the 
removal of the stickers and tag didnt have a negative impact on the value of the watch. The 
appraiser was chosen by Miss W, as a suitably qualified professional, and I am going to rely 
on what both parties have agreed he said. So Im satisfied its more likely than not that the 
removal of the stickers and tag didnt affect the value of the watch. 
Although the value of the watch hasnt been affected, its clear this has been a stressful 
experience for Miss W. I think HJ acted fairly when it agreed to allow Miss W to choose an 
appraiser to check whether the watch had decreased in value, and when it agreed to pay for 
the valuation. 
I know Miss W was concerned that the appraiser might have had professional dealings with 
HJ in the past, and so she thought his assessment might not have been impartial. But I have to take into consideration that it was Miss W, and not HJ, who chose the appraiser. And I 
havent been provided with any evidence to support Miss Ws concerns, or evidence that 
might suggest his valuation was incorrect. So I dont think HJ needed to arrange for a 
second appraiser to value the watch. 
HJ has said it will refund Miss W £528, which is the value of the interest she paid to HJ. I 
think this is a fair amount to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced as a result of the stickers and tag being removed.
When Miss W picked up the watch in August 2021, immediately after the appraisal, she said 
she took it to a different lender with a view to having it valued. She said they pointed out that 
there were scratches beside the strap pins on the back of the watch. Miss W said she hadnt 
noticed those before and was concerned they were caused by HJ. Miss W said her watch 
was in pristine condition when she left it with HJ and believes the damage happened while it 
was in its care. 
It's my understanding that the scratches on the back of the watch could have been caused 
by not enough care being taken when force was applied to the strap pins to allow the watch 
strap to be removed. 
HJ confirmed it removed the watch strap when it was initially valuing Miss Ws watch, prior to 
it agreeing to the loan. It said the removal of the strap is standard practice when providing a 
loan against a Rolex watch, as its needed to verify the model reference of the watch which 
is engraved under the strap fitting. HJ said it requires this verification so that checks can be 
made for any watches that have been reported lost or stolen. HJ said due care and attention 
was taken during this process. 
In order to consider whether the scratches on the watch were caused by HJ, I would first of 
all need to see evidence that the watch was undamaged prior to Miss W depositing it with 
HJ. 
Ive looked carefully at the photographs and video footage taken by Miss W of the watch the 
day before she deposited it with HJ. While the video footage is not always in focus, Im 
satisfied that it is clear enough in parts to show that there were, in fact, scratches beside at 
least one of the watch strap pins. What this means is that the watch was not in pristine 
condition when Miss W deposited it with HJ. 
I want to reassure Miss W that its not my intention to cast any doubt on her testimony. From 
what she said, it seems likely she genuinely only became aware of the scratches when she 
took the watch to the second lender to have it valued. But I cant ignore the video evidence 
Miss W has provided and this suggests there were scratches on the watch prior to it being 
deposited with HJ.   
What this means is that Im satisfied the watch wasnt in pristine condition prior to Miss W 
depositing it with HJ. I dont know if additional scratches were caused when it was in HJs 
care, but I dont think it would be fair to say that HJ should be held accountable for any 
scratches on the watch that were noticed after it was picked up, when its clear there were 
scratches on the watch prior to it being deposited with HJ. 
Miss W also said she thinks her watch was worn by a member of staff at HJ, as she said the 
date on the watch, which is motion activated, was two days ahead when the watch was 
returned to her. But Miss W has not provided any photographic evidence showing the date 
on the watch after she picked it up from HJ. So, Im not asking HJ to do anything in relation 
to the date, as I have no evidence it did anything wrong here. It's important to note that even if Miss W provided an up to date photograph of the date on 
the watch, I would have no way of knowing just why that changed or whether any change 
happened as a result of mishandling by HJ. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold it 
responsible.  
Miss W also made several complaint points that this Service cant deal with. 
One is that Miss W thought HJ hadnt paid the appraiser as it said it would. From what I can 
see, HJ has paid the appraiser. But, in any event, we cant look at a complaint from Miss W 
where the issue is essentially between HJ and the supplier it has promised to pay. In 
addition, this issue is not about a regulated financial product or service and so is outside this 
Services remit. 
Another issue is that HJ sent a letter to Miss W, but addressed it incorrectly and so it was 
delivered to a neighbour. I understand that her personal circumstances mean Miss W was 
distressed to find this had happened. HJ acknowledged this error. However, its my 
understanding that the letter was purely a complaint acknowledgment from HJ and the rules 
under which we operate  the dispute resolution rules (DISP), outlined in the Financial 
Conduct Authority handbook  dont allow us to consider how a business has handled a 
complaint, as its not a regulated activity. So while I appreciate the distress this caused 
Miss W, I cant look into this further. 
Miss W feels that what happened with HJ was as a result of her accent and how she looks. 
The crux of Miss Ws complaint is about the stickers and tag being removed and the general 
handling of her watch. Its my understanding the watch was audited as part of a routine 
process some time after Miss W deposited it with HJ. I cant see anything in the information 
provided to me that would suggest Miss Ws watch was processed differently to how any 
other item being deposited would be. Its certainly the case that the stickers and tag were 
removed when they shouldnt have been, but theres nothing to suggest this was anything 
other than an administrative error.   
 
From what I can see, Miss W hasnt yet accepted HJs offer to refund the interest she paid 
on the loan. Its for Miss W to decide if she wants to accept this offer, and so I intend to leave 
it to her to contact HJ to arrange this payment, if that is what Miss W wants to do. HJ also 
offered to replace the stickers and, again, I will leave this with Miss W to arrange with HJ, if 
thats what she wants. 
I know my decision will disappoint Miss W, but I am not upholding her complaint. 
My final decision
Im am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman