DRN-3112283
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr A says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr As 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr As representative disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same 
complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr As. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr As complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Nationwide made it clear that Mr A didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. Mr A says he took out his credit card and PPI policy over the internet, but 
Nationwide has evidenced that this happened via a postal application. This means that 
its unlikely there was any interaction with a representative from Nationwide during the 
sale. Nationwide has been able to give me a copy of the credit agreement that Mr A 
signed. In this, there was the option for Mr A to either accept or decline PPI by ticking 
one of two boxes. I can see he ticked the box to accept PPI and I think it was equally 
clear he could have declined it if he didnt want the policy. So I think Mr A chose to take 
out the policy, knowing he didnt have to. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A - so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr A enough clear and timely 
information so he could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. Mr A has given us information about his work benefits, but this is for a 
different employer to the one listed on his credit card application form. Because of this, 
its not clear what his circumstances were at the time. We contacted his representative to 
obtain this information but they were unable to get in contact with Mr A. Because of this, I 
cant safely say that he was affected by any of the significant exclusions on or limits to 
the cover. The policy wasnt too dissimilar to what Mr A reasonably thought he was 
buying from the information he was given. There were also no additional restrictions on 
cover for mental health or back problems. It also looks like it was affordable  so it 
seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. Because of this I 
dont think Mr A would have declined the cover had Nationwide done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr A would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr As representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have disclosed the poor value and explained 
the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of 
making a claim.
But Mr As representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr As individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr As particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman