DRN-4136946
The complaint
Mr A complains that Quilter Financial Services Ltd initially prevented him from transferring 
the benefits from his former employers occupational pension defined benefit (DB) scheme. 
Mr A believes that decision has caused him a financial loss.
What happened
In 2021 Mr A approached one of Quilters appointed representatives (the adviser) for advice 
about his pension planning. The adviser conducted a fact-find with him and gathered 
information about his circumstances and objectives as well as information about his pension 
entitlement. 
Mr A told the adviser he was living with his mother who was elderly and unwell. Mr A was 
concerned that if she died or needed to move into long-term care, he would have to sell his 
mothers house. If that happened the proceeds would be split between himself and his 
siblings and he wouldn't be able to buy a home for himself. Mr A said he couldn't afford to 
rent privately and was concerned hed end up homeless. Owing to his personal 
circumstances, securing a mortgage wasnt an option for him either. So, Mr A was keen to 
use funds from his pensions to buy a property. He said his brother had offered to sell him a 
house for £80,000 - around £20,000 below its market value.
Mr A was a deferred member of his former employers DB scheme. In January 2022 the 
scheme administrators sent Quilter information about Mr As entitlements from it. The 
scheme had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of around £149,200 guaranteed until 
24 April 2022. Quilter obtained an appropriate pension transfer analysis report (APTA) 
which included a transfer value comparator (TVC). The TVC showed that to match the 
benefits from Mr As former employers DB scheme with something of equivalent value could 
cost Mr A around £210,600 or roughly £61,400 more than his original CETV. 
Mr A was also an active member of his current employers DB scheme. The adviser said 
Mr A should keep his benefits from that scheme intact. But the adviser noted that Mr A could 
use the money from his deferred DB scheme to buy the house from his brother. That would 
also mean money would be left over to enable Mr A to support his daughter through 
university when she started there in the next year.
The adviser drafted a suitability report recommending Mr A transfer his DB benefits to a 
personal pension. The adviser submitted the report to Quilters compliance team for 
approval. Quilter didnt approve the report. In essence it said Mr A didnt have to move 
house at the time, so a transfer wasnt in his best interests. The adviser continued to argue 
that Quilter should approve the transfer. But Quilter didnt believe that was suitable advice 
for Mr A. 
Mr A contacted Quilter in May 2022. The adviser told him that Quilter believed a transfer 
wasnt suitable for him. Mr A told the adviser that his mothers health had taken a turn for the 
worse and shed had to go into long-term care. As such, hed need a new place to live. The 
adviser updated his suitability report and resubmitted it for approval. At that point Quilter 
approved the recommendation to transfer, which Mr A accepted. Quilter obtained an 
updated CETV from the DB scheme administrators. Its value had dropped to around 
£115,300 by then. Mr A went ahead with the transfer in any event. 
The adviser complained to Quilter on Mr As behalf. Quilter didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A 
then brought his complaint to us. One of our Investigators looked into it. He didnt think 
Quilter needed to take any further action. Mr A didnt agree so his complaints been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In arriving at my determination Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. This includes the regulators Principles for Business 
(PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What Ive set out below isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied 
at the time of the advice, but it provides useful context for my assessment of Quilter's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that, when 
considering a transfer from a DB scheme:
a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. 
A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can 
clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in 
the client's best interests.
So, the starting assumption is that a DB transfer is unsuitable. This is known as the 
presumption of unsuitability. It follows that Quilter should only have considered 
recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate on the evidence available at the time 
that it was in Mr As best interests.
Should Quilter have agreed to the advisers recommendation to transfer earlier?
I can understand that, perhaps, from Mr As perspective, the transfer of his deferred DB 
scheme funds made some sense:He was facing the prospect of having to move out of his mothers home. 
He couldnt raise funds to buy a property through borrowing or other means. 
He was being offered a property at a heavily discounted price. 
Transferring from his former DB scheme would allow him to buy that property, which 
he could then live in.
In contrast, Quilter is aware that the area of DB pension transfers is fairly heavily regulated. 
And the regulator says advising firms like Quilter should start by presuming a transfer won't 
be suitable. 
DB pensions are a valuable resource and their benefits are often considered to be difficult to 
match (at a similar cost) compared with other pension products available on the open 
market. For example, Quilters TVC showed that to replace the benefits from Mr As DB 
scheme with a product including similar benefits on the open market could cost Mr A around 
£61,400 more than his CETV. That was an increase of around 41%. 
Also transferring from a DB scheme is a one-off event; once transferred theres no going 
back  the benefits are lost forever. So, when giving DB pension transfer advice Quilters 
role isn't to simply do what Mr A wanted it to do, no matter how convinced he was that a 
transfer was suitable for him. Instead Quilter was required to understand his wants and 
needs, not just his wishes and desires. It was also required to analyse, test and challenge 
his motives for seeking a transfer. And only once it was convinced, on contemporary 
evidence, that a transfer was in his best interests could it fairly make a positive 
recommendation to transfer.
Further, there are typically a number of stages involved in the DB transfer process. As well 
as gathering information from Mr A, Quilter had to request evidence from the scheme 
administrators. It's notable Quilter had to twice go back to the scheme administrators for 
further evidence. It also had to obtain an APTA  which is a regulatory requirement  and 
then provide a report of its analysis. That report was checked by Quilters compliance team 
to ensure it wasnt falling foul of the regulators rules. So, while it might have seemed to Mr A 
like a fairly straightforward process with an obvious outcome, that wouldnt have been 
Quilters approach. Each of these stages takes thought, careful analysis and awareness of 
the regulatory landscape. And all of these things take time. 
In addition its quite clear the adviser believed a transfer was suitable for Mr A, as thats what 
his initial draft suitability report said. But Quilter wasnt persuaded by the contemporary 
evidence to support that case. At the time the adviser drafted his initial report, Mr A was still 
living with his mother. So, he didnt have an urgent need to buy a property. And while I can 
certainly understand why he would want to do that it wasnt something  at that time  he 
had to do. Also, while Im aware his mothers health wasnt improving, Mr A didnt have a 
clear idea about when he might have to sell the house and move out. So his need for 
alternative housing wasnt urgent. And thats something that Quilter needed to take into 
account. It follows that Im not persuaded he needed to give up the guaranteed, safeguarded 
and increasing benefits from his DB scheme at that time. And, as that wasn't a pressing 
need for him, given the regulators presumption of unsuitability, I think Quilters initial 
decision to say a transfer wasnt in his best interests was reasonable.
But, Quilter changed its assessment of the situation when Mr A told the adviser that his 
mother had gone into care and his home would need to be sold. And its apparent that it was 
that development which Quilter identified as being the tipping point from which transferring 
his DB funds to buy a property became a pressing need for Mr A. Until that event happened 
Quilter was satisfied that a transfer was simply something that was nice to have. So it was that specific event which caused Quilter to change its mind about whether or not a transfer 
was in Mr As best interests. I think it was reasonable of it to revisit its decision at that point.
In the meantime, Mr As original CETV had expired. But I dont think that was because of any 
inaction or wrongdoing on Quilters behalf. Especially when, at the time the CETV expired, it 
still believed a transfer wasnt in Mr As best interests. 
CETVs are typically only guaranteed for up to three months and they will then require 
recalculation. Thats because theyre not only based on the consumers circumstances, but 
whats happening in the wider financial markets too. So they are affected by things like gilt 
and discount rates. That means they can go up and down in line with the financial markets. It 
was unfortunate for Mr A that market forces caused the CETV to drop in value. But Im 
satisfied that wasnt because of anything Quilter did wrong.
Similarly it was also unfortunate that Mr As brothers house was no longer available to him 
at a discounted rate by the time the DB transfer concluded. But, I think Quilters initial 
decision that the transfer wasnt in Mr As best interests was reasonable. So I dont think 
Quilter is responsible for Mr A being unable to buy that house or for any reduction in the 
CETV by the time the DB transfer did go ahead. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman