DRN-4057131
The complaint
Mrs H complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited handled her subsidence claim 
poorly.
Mrs Hs been represented for this complaint. For ease Ive referred to the actions of the 
representative as being her own. Similarly Ive referred, in places, to RSAs agents action as 
being its own. 
What happened
In 2017 Mrs H made a subsidence claim on her RSA home insurance policy. In 2019 tree 
roots were identified as the cause of movement. In 2019 a root barrier was installed. Repairs 
were due to begin but issues arose over the scope of works. There was concern movement 
was continuing. RSA monitored the property again but was satisfied any movement was 
within tolerance. It wanted to start repairs but concerns about continuing cracking were 
raised again. In July 2022 RSA restarted monitoring. 
In September 2022 Mrs H came to this service. She was frustrated that after many years 
repairs to her home hadnt been completed. She said its becoming increasingly dilapidated 
with ongoing cracking. She explained RSAs been unable or unwilling to progress the claim. 
To resolve her complaint she wants it to produce and implement a final scope of works. 
In February 2023 our investigator considered the complaint. She felt RSA had handled the 
claim effectively until installation of the root barrier in 2019. She said it was responsible for 
avoidable delays after that  and had failed to provide Mrs H with good enough updates. She 
felt whilst the length of delays had been significant, the resulting disruption hadnt been. 
So the investigator recommended RSA pay Mrs H £500 compensation. The investigator felt 
it was reasonable that repair work hadnt started, as that would require the property to be 
stable. RSA accepted the investigators recommendation. But Mrs H didnt. She said she 
wasnt looking for compensation but for RSA to action the repairs expeditiously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mrs H and RSAs provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key or
central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
This service often awards compensation for unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
experienced as a result of poor claim handling and delay. In this case our investigator felt 
£500 would be a reasonable amount to recognise the impact of unnecessary delay and poor 
communication. 
In response Mrs H didnt raise any dissatisfaction with that amount. Instead said she isnt 
looking for compensation. RSA did agree to the recommendation. As a result I consider the 
matter of compensation as resolved by the investigator  so I havent reflected on the 
adequacy of the compensation award.  
Mrs Hs request is that RSA improve its performance and completes work to her home 
expeditiously. She would like to see a finalised scope of works with an implementation 
timeline. I can understand, having reviewed the claim timelines and her personal 
circumstances, why shes frustrated with the historical and current progress of the claim. 
Unfortunately subsidence claims, by their nature, often extend over many years. That said I 
can see RSA probably could have managed the claim more effectively at points. However, I 
cant say its currently managing the claim poorly. And so I dont feel it would be appropriate 
to require it to set out a final scope of works with timeline at this stage. 
Monitoring has been extended until the summer of 2023. RSAs explained this is necessary 
as potential downward movement had been noted. Its concerned there could be further 
subsidence, so wishes to continue monitoring to understand if theres seasonal movement., 
It says it doesnt want to commit to a completion date as its a possible a further extension 
may be required. And RSAs pointed out repair requirements are subject to change until the 
property is stable  so it cant commit to a scope of work or implementation timelines at this 
point. 
I accept this situation is frustrating for Mrs H, but RSAs current position is fair and 
reasonable. It wouldnt be appropriate to draw up a plan of works when its possible the 
necessary repair and work may change because of further movement. In addition there may, 
I assume, be a requirement for further prevention works. 
All I can really say is that Id expect, particularly given Mrs Hs age and personal 
circumstances, that RSA manages the claim proactively and efficiently from this point on. Id 
also expect it to fairly consider any request from Mrs H for alternative accommodation if 
reinstatement works cause her property to be uninhabitable for her. 
Considering the potential ongoing movement, Mrs Hs questioned the effectiveness of the 
root barrier installation. She raised concern it wasnt built to the required depth. RSAs 
explained the barrier was built to a depth of 3.7m rather than the requested 4m. The shortfall 
being due to contractors hitting bedrock. So it feels that wouldnt undermine the barriers 
effectiveness. Mrs H hasnt provided any expert opinion or significant evidence to support 
her concerns. So on balance l I havent seen enough to persuade me RSAs contractors 
failed to build the barrier to an effective depth.     
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay, if 
hasnt done so already, Mrs H £500 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman