DRN-3282820
The complaint
Mr T complains about advice given by Findlay & Co Financial Solutions Limited, an 
appointed representative of Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited (Quilter) to transfer 
his personal pension to a new pension arrangement with a different provider.
For convenience Ive just referred to Quilter below but references to Quilter should be taken 
as meaning Findlay & Co Financial Solutions Limited as appropriate. 
Mr Ts complaint arises out of the same factual background as a similar complaint made by 
his wife. So my decisions in both cases are correspondingly similar. 
In August 2019 Quilter advised Mr T to transfer his existing personal pension with Clerical 
Medical to a new personal pension arrangement with Old Mutual Wealth. The transfer was 
recommended as the new arrangement offered flexible access drawdown (FAD) which 
allowed Mr T to take 25% of his pension tax free without drawing an income. Mr T was 
charged an upfront fee of 3% of his funds value for the advice. 
Mr T later complained to Quilter. Amongst other things he said he couldve switched to a 
different pension arrangement which offered FAD with Clerical Medical or Scottish Widows 
at no extra cost. He also said that he hadnt been provided with all the relevant information. 
Quilter didnt uphold the complaint. It referred to Mr Ts meetings with the adviser and the 
suitability report issued on 19 August 2019. Quilter said Mr T had been made fully aware of 
his options and the advisers charges. 
 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He upheld the complaint. He noted 
that information Clerical Medical provided to Quilter during the advice process said: 
Drawdown isnt available directly from the plan. Clerical Medical Income Drawdown 
(minimum value of £50,000 after any tax free cash) and Scottish Widows Retirement 
Account (minimum value of £30,000 before any tax free cash) options would be available
As Mr Ts fund value was £214,577.54 as of 16 August 2019, both options were available to 
him. The investigator said there was no evidence that Quilter had considered them. He 
noted the work done by Quilter in connection with the recommendation to switch providers. 
But he thought most of that wouldve been avoided if a switch to a different Clerical Medical 
or Scottish Widows product had been recommended. And it shouldve been covered by the 
ongoing advice fee Mr T was paying. The investigator set out how Quilter should work out if 
Mr T had suffered any loss as a result of switching to the new arrangement with Old Mutual 
Wealth. 
In response Quilter agreed that Mr T couldve transferred to a drawdown product within 
Clerical Medical. However Quilter said that wouldnt have been covered by the ongoing 
servicing fees which were to cover the cost of servicing the existing plan and not advising on 
any new product. Quilter maintained that the same fees wouldve been incurred.
The investigators view was that whether the ongoing advice fee wouldve covered switching 
to a new policy with Clerical Medical wasnt the real issue  which was that the adviser 
hadnt been transparent about the fact that Mr T could switch into another plan offered by the 
existing provider. Mr T had said that he wasnt told that was an option. And the suitability 
report didnt mention it. 
The advisor shouldve told Mr T that he could change to a different policy with Clerical 
Medical. And it wouldve been reasonable for him to recommended that Mr T try and switch 
himself before incurring any further fees. The investigator thought, if the adviser had 
suggested that, Mr T wouldve completed a switch without changing his investments or 
incurring any costs. 
Quilter accepted that Mr T hadnt been told that switching to another Clerical Medical policy 
was an option. That was an oversight by the adviser and that option shouldve been 
explored.
The original client agreements were no longer available. But Quilter said that ongoing fees 
were for assessing continued suitability, performance and ongoing servicing of the existing 
plan. Where a new advice process was required and a new product recommended to meet 
changed circumstances, a new fee would be charged to cover the cost of the research, 
advice and implementation. Quilter didnt agree that the adviser should simply have 
recommended that Mr T try to switch within Clerical Medical. Simply using an option from the 
current provider without researching the rest of the market might not have got the best option 
for the client. The adviser wouldnt have done all of the work free of charge. Even if the 
outcome was to switch within Clerical Medical/Scottish Widows, a similar level of fees 
wouldve been incurred.
Quilter had spoken to Scottish Widows about the drawdown options that wouldve been 
available. A selection of portfolios were available but based on Mr Ts established and 
agreed cautious attitude to risk, there was only one that wouldve been suitable for him - the 
Scottish Widows Pension Portfolio 5, Series 4. Quilters approximate calculations, based on 
the redress methodology the investigator had proposed, indicated that the advisers 
recommendation wouldve outperformed that Scottish Widows portfolio, even with no fees 
deducted. 
Quilter said the main issue seemed to be the fees. But these were discussed with several 
times and Mr T had signed the Authority to Proceed on 8 August 2019 and the Adviser Fee 
Agreement on 23 September 2019. The fees were also disclosed in the suitability letter 
which was provided prior to Mr T agreeing to proceed with the recommendation,. And the 
cooling off notice issued by the provider also disclosed the fees. Mr T didnt raise any 
concern or objection. Although Quilter agreed that the option of drawdown with the existing 
provider wasnt explored, Mr T was still better off even after the deduction of the fee he was 
complaining about.
The investigator considered Quilters comments but he wasnt persuaded to change his 
view. He said the issue wasnt the fee charged. But that Mr T didnt think the work needed be 
done and so the fee was unnecessary. If Quilter was saying that Mr Ts existing investments 
with Clerical Medical werent commensurate with his attitude to risk then the adviser 
shouldve addressed that earlier, given that Mr T was 60. The adviser shouldve made Mr T 
aware that he could complete an internal switch free of charge. If Mr T was better off as a 
result of the recommendation thered be no loss and so no compensation would be due. The investigator told both parties hed refer the complaint to an ombudsman to decide. Mr T 
produced a copy of a letter dated 23 September 2020 in support of his case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and the reasons 
why he said the complaint should be upheld. I also think what he proposed as to how Quilter 
should work out if Mr T had suffered any loss was reasonable. 
Quilter agrees that there were shortcomings on the advisers part - Quilter accepts the 
adviser didnt explore the option of switching to a different product with Clerical 
Medical/Scottish Widows which had a drawdown option, which Mr Ts existing Clerical 
Medical policy didnt offer. And it seems that Quilter accepts that Scottish Widows did offer a 
suitable drawdown product, even though the investment choice may have been limited due 
to Mr Ts cautious attitude to risk. 
If Mr T was otherwise happy with Clerical Medical and his investments, I think remaining with 
Clerical Medical wouldve been Mr Ts first choice. I think that option shouldve been 
explored first. If Clerical Medical offered a suitable product, I think the adviser couldve 
endorsed that. In the circumstances Im not sure that detailed research into the rest of the 
market wouldve been required in order to ascertain what another suitable solution for Mr T 
might be. Like the investigator, Im not convinced that the same degree of work (and fees) 
wouldve been involved.        
I further understand that Mr T was paying a fee for ongoing advice. Quilter has said it didnt 
cover further advice about a new product and wouldnt have covered a recommendation to 
switch to a different product with the same provider. But Quilter hasnt been able to produce 
a copy of the client agreement so I cant say for certain what was and wasnt covered. I think 
its possible that what Mr T was looking to do wouldve been covered by an ongoing advice 
fee and when hed be moving to another product with the same provider. And, without sight 
of the client agreement, its difficult for Quilter to demonstrate otherwise. 
Ive also taken into account, even if Quilter is right that Mr T has suffered no overall loss, its 
possible hes suffered a loss in relation to his tax free cash. I say that because, as I 
understand it, Mr Ts full fund value was transferred from Clerical Medical and the advisers 
3% fee (£6,525) was taken before the tax free cash was paid. If no or a reduced fee 
shouldve been paid then more of the fund wouldve been available as tax free cash. For 
example, if no fee shouldve been charged then Mr T has potentially lost £1,631.25  that is 
25% of the fee he paid. But whether that translates into an actual loss will depend on if he 
pays any tax when he comes to make withdrawals. I note the suitability report said Mr T 
thought any withdrawals in future years would be within the nil rate tax band. 
Quilters position is that, even taking into account the fee Mr T paid, hes done better by 
switching to Old Mutual Wealth than hed have done had he remained with Clerical Medical. 
If thats the case then, even though Im upholding Mr Ts complaint, no redress will be 
payable by Quilter on the basis that theres no financial loss.Putting things right
I think what the investigator said about how Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited 
should work out whether Mr T had suffered any financial loss is fair. Ive clarified how any 
compensation should be paid. 
To ascertain whether Mr T has suffered any financial loss, Quilter Financial Planning 
Solutions Limited should compare: 
A) the notional value of Mr Ts pension had it been transferred into the most suitable 
option offered by Clerical Medical or Scottish Widows  which it seems wouldve 
been a drawdown arrangement with Mr Ts residual fund invested the Scottish 
Widows Pension Portfolio 5, Series 4  and taking into account the ongoing advice 
fee Mr T had agreed with Quilter prior to August 2019; and
B) the value of Mr Ts existing pension at the date of calculation.
If subtracting B from A produces a figure of zero or less, then Mr T has suffered no financial 
loss and no compensation is due. If subtracting B from A produces a figure greater than 
zero, then Mr T has suffered a financial loss equal to this amount and should be
compensated accordingly.
Id add that, if theres a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid into Mr Ts 
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of any charges and any available tax 
relief. It shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance. 
If payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum. Wed usually say that a deduction for income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid can be made  if Mr T wouldve paid income tax on 
any amounts withdrawn from his pension fund then it would be fair for that to be reflected in 
any compensation. But, as Ive said above, Im not sure Mr T wouldve incurred any income 
tax on any future withdrawals. And so I didnt say hed suffered a loss in respect of his tax 
free cash. By the same token I think it would be fair to assume he wont pay any tax on 
future withdrawals and so, if a cash payment is made to Mr T, no deduction for notional tax 
should be made.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited must pay redress (if any) 
as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman