DRN-3823690
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly declined his claim on his landlords 
insurance policy following a fire at a property he owns. 
Mr Y has been represented by a third part throughout this complaint. However for ease of 
reading all references to Mr Y include the actions of his representative. 
What happened
Mr Y had an insurance policy for a property he owned and rented out that was underwritten 
by Fairmead. In January 2019 there was a fire at the property and he made a claim on the 
policy.
Through the claim it transpired that Mr Y hadnt declared to Fairmead that he had been 
renting out the property. And he therefore had the wrong kind of policy for the risk. Fairmead 
avoided the policy as it said Mr Y had made a misrepresentation. However Mr Y brought a 
complaint about the avoidance to this service and an ombudsman issued a decision 
directing Fairmead to reinstate a landlords insurance policy and remove the avoidance. 
Following this, Fairmead considered the fire claim in line with the terms of the Landlords 
insurance policy and declined it. It said that the policy excluded any loss or damage caused 
by illegal activities and it said the fire was directly caused by the cultivation of cannabis in the 
loft by the tenant. 
Mr Y didnt think this was fair. He said he hadnt been given the policy wording when he was 
switched to a landlords policy so he had never had knowledge of the exclusion. Further 
while he accepted his tenant had been cultivating cannabis against his knowledge, he didnt 
agree that there was enough evidence to show this was the cause of the fire, so didnt think 
Fairmead could fairly rely on this exclusion. 
He made a complaint to Fairmead but it didnt uphold it, so he brought it to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said she was satisfied Fairmead did send the policy to Mr Y and even if it hadnt, she didnt 
think him having the policy terms would have changed his circumstances. Further, she 
thought based on the evidence Fairmead had made a fair decision to decline the claim. 
Mr Y didnt agree with our investigators assessment. In summary he said:
Fairmead knew the circumstances around the claim before it switched him to a 
landlords policy, so it would have known it could decline the claim on that policy 
before it even issued it.
Mr Y didnt receive a copy of the policy terms until August 2019, so had no 
knowledge of the term.
In order to decline the claim under the exclusion, the cultivation of drugs would need 
to be material to the loss and the initial report from Fairmeads expert concluded that 
the cause was an electrical fault and not linked to the cannabis growing in the loft.
Mr Y asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y has raised concerns about the policy that Fairmead has applied and his knowledge of 
the terms within it. I have started by addressing these points, before going on to consider 
whether Fairmead has acted fairly and reasonably when declining the claim. 
Landlords policy
Mr Y has said that Fairmead has unfairly applied the terms of the landlords policy, as it did 
so in the knowledge that it would apply the exclusion.
Ive considered this but I find no merit in this argument. Firstly I dont agree that at the time 
the policy was put in place, Fairmead were in a position to know that it would rely on the 
exclusion for illegal cultivation of drugs. The policy was issued on 15 February 2019. At this 
time Ive seen no evidence that Fairmead were aware that cannabis had been grown at the 
property. The first time this is mentioned in the file of information provided is during its visit to 
the property on 29 February, when they were informed of the circumstances by Mr Y. Mr Y 
has disputed that the policy was issued on this date, as he said he didnt receive the 
documents. However Fairmead has provided an email from its broker that confirms it 
contacted Mr Y on 14 February to set the policy up as a landlords policy. And its provided 
copies of the policy documents with this date that it said were sent to him on the same day.  
But even if the policy wasnt issued on that date, the only reason Mr Y hadnt been issued 
with a policy prior to this was because he hadnt informed Fairmead that he was renting out 
the property. And he therefore originally had a residential policy in place, rather than a 
landlords one as he should have. Had he given Fairmead the correct information at each 
renewal of the policy then he would have been issued with the correct policy from the start of 
the policy term. I therefore see no reason why Fairmead should consider the claim in line 
with the previous policy rather than the landlords one, as that cover wouldnt apply to his 
circumstances. And this was only ever in place due to a misrepresentation made by Mr Y. 
So I think Fairmead acted fairly by applying the terms of the landlords insurance policy when 
assessing the claim.
Knowledge of exclusion
Mr Y has said he wasnt sent the full policy documents until August 2019 and therefore had 
no knowledge of the exclusion for cultivating drugs in the policy. 
As I said above, Fairmead has provided the documents that it says were posted to Mr Y in 
February. The documents show the date of 15 February 2019, so I have no reason to doubt 
that these were sent on this date. 
However, even if Fairmead hadnt provided the documents in February, Ive considered what 
Mr Y would have done differently if he had been in receipt of the documents. And I dont 
think he would have done anything differently. Mr Y had no knowledge of the illegal activity 
his tenant had been using the property for, and considered him to be a model tenant. So I 
dont consider it likely that a policy that contained that exclusion would prompt Mr Y to take 
any action that may have prevented the need to claim. Further, an exclusion for cultivating illegal drugs is very common in landlords insurance 
policies, so even if it had prompted him to get insurance elsewhere, its unlikely he would 
have obtained a policy without the clause. So he would be in the same position as he is now. 
It is also of note that most insurance policies, whether landlords or otherwise, wouldnt 
provide cover for a peril that is caused by any kind of illegal activity. So I dont consider that 
it would have been surprising for Mr Y to find that this exclusion was present, even if he is 
not familiar with landords policies specifically. 
So I dont consider the fact he says he didnt have the policy documents to have had any 
impact on the fact the claim has now been declined. As even if I accept the documents 
werent received, I dont think its likely this has had an impact on the position he is now in.  
Declinature of the claim
As I find that Fairmead acted fairly in applying the terms of the Landlords policy in this claim, 
I have gone on to consider whether it has fairly declined the claim. 
The exclusion in the policy that Fairmead has relied on to decline Mr Ys claim states as 
follows:
Illegal Activities: We will not pay for any loss or damage caused as a result of the insured 
property being used for illegal activities.
So in order for the exclusion to apply, Fairmead would need to show that there was an illegal 
activity that took place and that the damage was caused because of that activity. 
Here, there is no dispute that an illegal activity had taken place. Mr Ys tenant was cultivating 
cannabis in the loft of the property. What is disputed is whether this was the cause of the 
fire. I need to consider whether Fairmead has done enough to show that this exclusion 
would fairly apply, based on the available evidence.
When the fire was first discovered, the fire brigade attended and they inspected the probable 
cause. In the report from this visit theyve stated as follows:
a cannabis farm had been assembled in the loft space, the electricity meter had been 
bypassed and this was the cause of the fire
Along with the report a photo of the electricity unit has been provided that shows three wires 
that enter the unit which are reported to have been attached to the loft, supposedly 
bypassing the electricity meter. 
However it is of note that the fire brigade didnt carry out any tests on the wires or the unit to 
determine whether the meter had been bypassed. They said the observation was made 
based on the three wires and their experience of other fires. 
Following this Fairmead appointed a forensic specialist who attended at the end of February, 
the photo included in their report shows the three wires are no longer attached to the unit. 
And the report concluded as follows:
The fire was probably the result of a resistive heating fault at the electrical supply equipment 
belonging to the distribution network operator.
I found nothing to suggest the cause of the fire was related to the alleged cannabis 
cultivation.However when this report was put together there was no evidence of the three wires that 
had previously been attached to the unit that led to the loft. Nor were Fairmead aware of the 
conclusions of the initial fire brigade report. 
In May 2019 Fairmead received a copy of the fire brigade report along with a photo of the 
electricity unit from the day of the fire, with the three wires attached. It provided this 
information to its forensic expert and asked a number of questions based on the new 
evidence, to see if this would change their original conclusions. The expert responded 
across two letters and stated that on their initial visit they found no physical evidence to 
confirm the electricity meter had been bypassed.
And they stated that:
I am therefore unable to completely rule out the possibility that the cultivation equipment 
was switched off at the timers and the fire occurred due to the load from the fridge-freezer.
However they concluded as follows:
However, on balance, I consider it more likely than not that the fire occurred when it did as a 
result of the increased electrical load imposed on the cut- out fuse assembly by the cannabis 
cultivation equipment.
Based on all the evidence, I agree that it isnt possible to know for certain what the cause of 
the fire was, as tests werent carried out on the three wires during the initial inspection and 
they were removed after. So it isnt possible to know if they bypassed the electricity meter 
and therefore caused the fire. 
However when facts are disputed, this service looks at the evidence to determine whats 
most likely on the balance of probabilities. And here, based on the expert opinion of 
Fairmeads forensic specialist, it seems most likely that the fire was caused by the illegal 
cultivation of drugs in the loft. While they concluded in their initial visit that this wasnt the 
probable cause, this was before they had been made aware of the three wires that were 
initially attached to the unit. So I consider their conclusions on receipt of this evidence to be 
more persuasive than the initial report when the wires had been removed. And they 
conclude that while it is possible that other factors caused the fire, the most likely cause was 
the illegal cultivation of drugs. And, in the absence of any other expert opinion to the 
contrary, I am persuaded that this is the most likely cause
I therefore find that Fairmead has done enough to prove that this exclusion would fairly apply 
and that it acted fairly by declining Mr Ys claim. So I wont ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman