DRN-3160360
Complaint
Mr M says that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) unfairly passed his overdraft to its 
collections department.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
It isnt in dispute that Mr M got in contact with Barclays a number of times to explain that he 
was having difficulty repaying his overdraft. And once a lender is told that a borrower is 
experiencing financial difficulties we would expect it to exercise forbearance and due 
consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations. Ultimately, wed expect a lender to listen 
to a borrower, get an understanding of their circumstances and the assess the most 
appropriate way to move forward. 
In this case, Barclays agreed to freeze the interest being added to Mr Ms account in July 
2019. The hope was that Mr Ms circumstances would improve in the three-month period 
interest wouldnt be added. But the temporary measures taken clearly didnt improve the 
situation and I dont think it would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate to continue 
ignoring Mr Ms obvious and apparent difficulty, or the fact that the overdraft had become 
demonstrably unsustainable for him, indefinitely. So by this stage, I would have expected 
Barclays to have taken corrective action in the way that it did.
After all while withdrawing a facility and recording adverse information, might be viewed 
negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in relation to the 
overdraft debt. Bearing in mind the above, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for 
Barclays to begin the process of taking corrective action in relation to Mr Ms overdraft when 
it did and issue termination notices, offering Mr M the opportunity bring his account up-to-
date before it would take any action. 
I know that Mr M says he didnt receive Barclays letters. But Ive seen copies and the letters 
were correctly addressed. So while I accept that its possible Mr M may not have received 
the letters, for example they might have gone astray in the post, as Barclays did what it was 
required to I dont think it acted unfairly. I note that it also sent Mr M a copy of the letter by 
email as soon as he requested a copy via this method too. 
As this is the case and Mr M didnt, or perhaps couldnt, comply with the formal demand for 
payment, Im satisfied that Barclays was entitled to pass Mr Ms overdraft to its collections 
department in the way that it did. Especially as Mr Ms obvious and apparent difficulties with 
the overdraft had been ongoing for some time by this stage. 
So overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope that hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman