DRN-3284985
The complaint
Mr P complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans 
provided to him. He said the lender didnt check properly that the loan was affordable and 
given the evidence it saw that he was gambling, Everyday Loans shouldve realised his 
vulnerability and not provided the loan.
What happened
The main loan details are as follows: 
Date taken Amount Term 
monthsMonthly 
paymentAmount 
repayableLoan status
19/10/2020 £2,500 36 £207.92 7,485.12. outstanding
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr P and Everyday Loans had told us and he 
didnt think that wed seen enough to say that Everyday Loans shouldnt have provided 
this loan. So he recommended not upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at this complaint.
In brief summary, Mr P said Everyday Loans shouldve realised that the extent of his 
gambling spending, which his bank statements would have shown was increasing to 
unaffordable levels, should have caused alarm bells and the loan shouldnt have been 
provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ps complaint. Id like to 
reassure Mr P that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached 
the same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain why I say this.
Everyday Loans  needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, this 
means that Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mr P could afford to repay before it provided this loan. Our website sets 
out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  
in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages 
of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So 
wed expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer 
irresponsibly.
Everyday Loans says it agreed to Mr Ps application after he provided details of his 
monthly income and expenditure. It also looked at bank statements Mr P provided in 
support of his application dating back 3 months or so and did its own credit checks to 
understand his credit history and see what he was paying for existing credit commitments.
Everyday Loans looked at Mr Ps payslip information and recorded his monthly income was 
around £2,207. Everyday Loans also relied on nationally available statistics when thinking 
about Mr Ps likely expenditure and it included an extra buffer to account for any change in 
circumstances or one-off additional expenses. After seeing his existing credit commitments, 
based on all this information, Everyday Loans said Mr P shouldve been able to afford the 
monthly repayment on this loan as he should still have had around £677 spare cash left 
each month after paying for this loan. 
Ive carefully thought about what Mr P and Everyday Loans have said. 
I think the checks undertaken by Everyday Loans were reasonable and proportionate in the 
circumstances and that it was fair for Everyday Loans to conclude that the loan repayments 
looked like they shouldve been comfortably affordable for Mr P based on the information it 
had gathered.
I dont think that there was enough to see in the information Mr P provided or the other 
information Everyday Loans had recorded, which meant that Everyday Loans shouldve 
taken more steps to check the information Mr P had declared. And I think the checks were 
enough to support Everyday Loans lending decision. 
In saying this, I've thought very carefully about the information Mr P thinks shouldve been 
enough to have put Everyday Loans off lending to him  specifically, what it saw and/or 
shouldve realised about his gambling. 
I think its fair to say that wed expect a responsible lender seeing signs of excessive or out 
of control gambling spending not to approve a loan application where theres a real risk that 
the money would fund further gambling and be detrimental to the borrower. But I dont think 
Everyday Loans saw enough for me reasonably to say that it ought to have realised that this 
was Mr Ps situation. In saying this, I acknowledge that Everyday Loans did see signs that 
Mr P had previously had a big monthly spend on gambling that would have more than used 
up the remaining disposable income that Everyday Loans worked out he should have each 
month. But, set against this, Everyday Loans also saw that the month after he spent just £50 
on betting. So I can see why the lender might reasonably have taken a view that Mr Ps 
gambling was, to some extent at least, under his control and he was able to rein back his 
spending on betting when he needed to. 
Although Everyday Loans could see that his most recent monthly spending on gambling had 
increased to around £678 this was almost exactly the amount of spare cash that Everyday 
Loans affordability calculations suggested he had  and of course, it was up to Mr P to 
decide how he wanted to spend this.  
Our adjudicator worked out Mr Ps average spending on gambling over the three month 
period running up to him taking out this loan and I think it was useful to think about this. The 
figures shown reveal that looking at things this way meant Mr P spent an average amount of around £485 per month gambling. But this doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint 
because that amount was well within the disposable income figure that Everyday Loans 
thought Mr P should have available to spend as he wished  after meeting all this other 
credit commitments and paying for its loan. So this makes no overall difference to the 
outcome. 
Mr Ps most up to date bank statement showed that hed gone over his arranged overdraft 
limit  but I dont think that on its own was enough to make Everyday Loans think it shouldnt 
provide this loan. That appeared to be the only time this had happened so far as can be 
seen  previously Mr P had stayed within his arranged £250 overdraft limit, further 
suggesting that he was effectively managing his spending on gambling.
Everyday Loans understood that Mr P was going to use some of the loan for debt 
consolidation  in other words, Mr P said he would use the loan to repay other debt. I think 
that wouldve seemed a plausible reason to borrow  and also he intended to buy some 
furniture, which would also have seemed a valid reason to borrow this loan. 
Ive taken into account that Mr P also mentioned a further £500 loan taken out on 28th 
September 2020 which Everyday Loans hadnt accounted for. But it isnt surprising that this 
didnt yet show on the credit checks Everyday Loans did  and, as far as I can see, the latest 
banking information Mr P provided to Everyday Loans for that account only went up to 
around 17th September 2020. So if Mr P didnt mention this I dont think I can fairly say that 
Everyday Loans shouldve found out about it. Even if it didnt have the most up to date 
information, I think the checks it did were broadly fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of this loan. And Im not persuaded that knowing about this loan wouldve 
been enough of a reason for Everyday Loans not to lend. It isnt unusual for applicants for 
this type of high cost loan to have other borrowing and this wouldnt necessarily be a fair 
reason to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application if it otherwise looked 
affordable  as I think it wouldve done. 
To sum up, Everyday Loans worked out (in a way that seems broadly fair to me) that Mr P 
should have had a reasonable amount of spare cash each month to enable him to afford 
this loan. And I dont think it saw enough information of sufficient concern for me to say it 
shouldve realised the loan wasnt going to be sustainably affordable for Mr P. 
Overall, I dont think that Everyday Loans treated Mr P unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with this loan. As this is the case, Im not intending to uphold the complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr P. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. 
Although Im not intending to uphold Mr Ps complaint, I will just take this opportunity to 
remind Everyday Loans  of its obligation to exercise forbearance in light of Mr Ps apparent 
difficulty repaying this loan, should it choose to collect payments from him. This means that 
Mr P can expect Everyday Loans to treat him positively and sympathetically in any 
discussions. 
And if Mr P would like help to manage his finances or to speak to someone about his 
situation generally, theres more information about how to get free debt advice and other 
help on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman