DRN-2869096
The complaint
Mr P complains that Equifax Limited recorded his siblings information on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr P contacted Equifax after his brother found details had been shared across their credit 
files. Equifax took steps to amend Mr Ps credit file and remove any incorrect information. 
Equifax also registered a notice of disassociation on its systems to ensure the problem 
wouldnt reoccur. 
The issue reoccurred after Mr Ps brother moved home. Equifax has explained that it needs 
to record a notice of disassociation on its systems for each address linked to Mr P and his 
brother. Equifax has confirmed it then took steps to correct Mr Ps credit file. 
Mr P referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Equifax 
advised it wanted to make Mr P an offer of £350 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the disputed credit file entries. Our investigator thought Equifaxs offer was a fair 
way to resolve Mr Ps complaint. Mr P asked to appeal and said he didnt think the offer was 
fair. As Mr P asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr P is concerned that Equifax merged information across credit files. 
Equifax accepts it incorrectly matched data to Mr Ps credit file due to similarities between Mr 
P and his brothers names. I understand the issue reoccurred after Mr Ps brother moved, 
but it appears the merged entries have now been removed and notices of disassociation 
have been recorded for all the relevant addresses. 
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mr Ps complaint. Mr P has confirmed he wasnt 
affected financially so theres no loss. And, as noted, Equifax has now removed the merged 
entries and taken steps to record notices of disassociation. Im satisfied Mr Ps credit file is 
now in the correct position. 
Equifax offered Mr P £350 to reflect the level of distress and inconvenience caused. I know 
Mr P has to undertake a reasonable level of contact with Equifax and another business that 
provides credit file information in trying to resolve matters. And its clear there has been a 
reasonable level of inconvenience here. I also understand the issue reoccurred after Mr Ps 
brother moved which has caused further trouble and upset. I agree its fair that Equifax 
compensates Mr P for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but, the proposed settlement of £350 is very much in line with 
what I wouldve told it to pay had no offer been made. In my view, £350 reflects the level of 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr P and is a fair way to resolve his complaint. As 
Equifax has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im 
not increasing the award. 
I know Mr P is concerned the issue may reoccur. But we cant consider complaints about 
issues that have yet to come about. If similar problems occur in the future, Mr P can raise 
them with Equifax and ultimately refer them to us if they arent resolved. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct Equifax Limited to pay him £350. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman