DRN-4131204
The complaint
Mr M complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) cancelled his 
motor insurance policy. References to Advantage include other individuals and organisations 
acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr M took out a new motor insurance policy underwritten by Advantage. A few days after he 
took out the policy, Advantage cancelled it. Advantage sent Mr M two letters with the same 
date. One said:
Your car insurance has been cancelled
This is because new information has come to light during our validation checks, and we're 
no longer able to cover you based on these details.
The other said:
Sorry, we can no longer insure you
We wrote to you recently about an outstanding debt, letting you know we'd cancel your 
policy if this wasn't paid. But since then we've reviewed your details and found:
 You carried out a number of quotes using different details.
Both letters said the policy would be cancelled on a date seven days from the date of the 
letter.
Mr M says he didnt have a previous letter about an outstanding debt, and that he paid for 
the cover in full when he took it out.
Mr M wasnt happy about this so he contacted Advantage. Advantage accepted that he had 
paid for the insurance, but said the policy was cancelled due to different details being input 
into searches for his insurance on a comparison website.
Mr M then complained to Advantage. Advantage said following a review of his policy its 
validation team informed him his policy was due to cancel as a result of him carrying out a 
number of quotes using various details.
Advantage said as his insurer it could cancel his policy at any time by sending him seven 
days written notice to the last postal or email address on its system. Advantage said Mr Ms 
policy was therefore cancelled in line with its cancellation processes. 
Mr M wasnt happy with Advantages response, so he complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He said Advantage had acted reasonably and in 
accordance with the terms of Mr Ms policy.
Mr M wasnt happy with what the investigator said, so his complaint has been passed to me. 
Mr M wants Advantage to rescind its decision to cancel the policy so that the cancellation 
wont affect the price of his future insurance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr M is unhappy that Advantage cancelled his policy without speaking to him, as he believes 
he could have explained what happened and no further action would have been taken 
against him. 
Mr M says he believes Advantages validators, having seen the non-payment, looked further 
into the comparison website. He believes the validator was angry thinking he hadnt paid his 
premium and he had used some different details, and decided to teach him a lesson and 
cancel his policy.
Advantage told this service that its policy review team could see that Mr M had completed 
numerous quotes online with varied information including the mileage, no claims discount, 
licence, claim information and occupation. Advantage said because of the volume of quotes 
and information that was different, its decision was to cancel the policy with immediate 
effect. However it provided seven days cover to Mr M. Advantage said this was in 
accordance with the fraud and cancellation terms of his policy.
Mr M accepts that he, and a member of his family, did run various quotes for his car 
insurance on the comparison website. However he says the differences can all be explained 
by error, or because of using different start dates. Mr M says he does have different jobs and 
did enter different ones but they are all genuine roles and there was only the facility to enter 
one of them on the website. He says the details provided to Advantage to take out the policy 
with it were all correct, and he entered the occupation he would be using the car to drive to.  
Mr Ms insurance policy documents said:
7. Fraud
You must not act in a fraudulent manner. If you, or anyone acting for you:
 Knowingly provide information to us that is not true
 Mislead us in any way, including about who is the main user of the Car, in order to get 
insurance from us, obtain more favourable terms or reduce your premium
Then, depending on the circumstances:
 Your Insurer may be entitled to refuse responsibility for the claim to which the alleged fraud 
or falsehood relates. They may also be entitled to cancel or void the Policy without refunding 
your premium...
And:
Our rights to cancel your Policy
We may give you seven days notice of cancellationWe and your Insurer can cancel your Policy at any time by sending you seven days written 
notice to the last postal or email address on our system, stating why the Policy has been 
cancelled. We can only do this for one of the following reasons:
 Weve been unable to collect a payment for the Costs of Insurancesee general condition 4
 You refuse to allow us or your Insurer reasonable access to your Car/s in order to provide 
the services youve requested under this Policy e.g. when you make a claim
 You dont provide reasonable co-operation to us or your Insurer in order to allow us to 
process your Policy, or a claim, or to defend our interests
 Your Insurer is prevented from providing cover under this Policy by law or other reason
 You dont send us or your Insurer information or documentation that your Insurer 
reasonably requires to process your Policy, or a claim, or to defend their interests
 You dont take care of your Car/s as required by general condition 3 and in your Insurers 
reasonable opinion this materially increases the risk they have insured
 You use threatening or abusive language or behaviour, or intimidate or bully our 
employees or your Insurers staff or suppliers.
In certain circumstances we or your Insurer have the right to treat your Policy as if it never 
existed, without giving you notice or refunding your Premium. This will only apply if you 
make, try to make or where your Insurer reasonably suspects - misrepresentation which is 
deliberate and/or reckless. If the Policy is treated as if it never existed, any claims made 
before or during this time will be declined.
Cancellation with immediate effect
If you make, or try to make, a fraudulent claim under this Policy, or where your Insurer 
reasonably suspects fraud, we or your Insurer has the right to cancel your Policy with 
immediate effect and without refunding your Premium. Any valid claims made before the 
cancellation of the Policy, will continue to be dealt with by your Insurer.
I think that Advantage did have grounds to cancel Mr Ms insurance policy. And I dont think 
Advantage needed to speak to Mr M before cancelling his policy.. 
A large number of quotes were run for his insurance using various different details. I think 
that the responsibility lies with the person looking for an insurance quote to take care to use 
the correct details. And whilst I accept that Mr M does have different jobs, the price 
comparison website asked for his primary occupation, which should have remained the 
same. Arguably Advantage may not have followed the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy, 
in that the policy says if Advantage suspects fraud or misrepresentation it can cancel the 
policy with immediate effect without refunding the premium or treat it as if it never existed. In 
fact Advantage gave Mr M seven days notice of the cancellation and refunded part of what 
he had paid. So even if Advantage did make a mistake, Mr M was not disadvantaged.
Mr M has referred to the Fraud term in his policy which I have quoted above. He says he 
didnt mislead Advantage about who was the main user of the car. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that this was a factor in Advantages decision to cancel the policy, rather it was the 
different information provided to obtain the different quotes on the comparison website.My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. So I wont be asking 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman