complaint
Mrs K says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her two mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policies. She says the policies were mandatory, they werent optional; she was told 
she had to have them. And she says she didnt need them because she had a secure job 
with occupational sick pay. Mrs K also says the cost of the policies wasnt clear and she 
wasnt told about the terms and conditions.
background
This complaint is about two monthly premium MPPI policies. The first was taken out with a 
loan in January 2004. This covered Mrs K in the event she wasnt working because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy cost £5 each month and in the event of a 
successful claim it wouldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months.
The second policy was sold in August 2004 and it was purchased when Mrs K took out 
further borrowing. This policy cost £2.50 each month and in the event of a successful claim it 
wouldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ks complaint. Ive looked at the available information with care and have decided not to 
uphold the complaint and Ive explained my reasons below.
Both policies were taken out around two years after Mrs K took out her mortgage  she 
didnt take MPPI when she applied for her mortgage in July 2002. So its clear to me that 
taking MPPI cant have been a condition of the mortgage and Im satisfied that Mrs K 
wouldve known this  she didnt need to take it in order to be approved for the mortgage.
In both cases, a separate MPPI application form was completed and signed by Mrs K. And 
Ive also seen copies of the signed direct debit mandates to set up payments for the MPPI 
separately from the mortgage. And from what I know about Lloyds mortgage sales at this 
time, the mortgage offer paperwork says that the policies are optional. So taking all these 
things into account, Im satisfied that MPPI was separate from the mortgage and the 
paperwork suggests that Mrs K chose to purchase the policies  so I think that she knew, or 
ought reasonably to have known that the MPPI policies were optional.
Lloyds recommended the MPPI policies to Mrs K. But from what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time of the sales, I think the policies were suitable for her.
DRN-1040226I say this because Mrs K was eligible for the policies  she met the policy rules about age, 
where she was living and her employment status. And from the information shes given us, I 
dont think she wouldve been caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in 
these types of policies  she told us she was in good health and she was employed at the 
times she was covered. So I think she wouldve been able to make a successful claim on the 
policies if shed needed to.
Mrs K was working at the time both policies were taken out and she says she had good 
occupational benefits from her employer if she was off work sick. And she told us that she 
had some savings. But this doesnt automatically mean that the policies were unsuitable. 
This is because were she unable to work, the MPPI was intended to remove the additional 
pressure of maintaining mortgage repayments, at what would likely be a difficult time. And as 
it was solely Mrs K who was responsible for the mortgage repayments, nothing Ive seen 
suggests its likely she couldve paid the monthly mortgage and her other living costs once 
any work benefits she may have had ran out.
Mrs K says she couldve relied upon her family for help. Whilst I understand the point shes 
making, there could be no guarantee that her familys financial circumstances wouldve 
allowed this at some unknown point in the future.
Also, the mortgage was over a number of years and the MPPI wouldve paid the monthly 
mortgage costs for up to 12 months for each successful claim  and on top of any other 
cover she had. So I dont think her existing cover wouldve made the MPPI unsuitable.
So taking everything into account, I think the MPPI was suitable for Mrs K.
Lloyds needed to properly explain the MPPIs costs, benefits, exclusions and limitations. It 
hasnt told us anything that shows what was actually said to Mrs K about this. So I cant say 
its likely Lloyds did give Mrs K everything she needed to know before deciding to take MPPI.
But did Mrs K lose out as a result - would she have taken the MPPI if Lloyds had properly 
told her about it?
Ive explained why I think the MPPI policies were suitable. Given her circumstances at the 
time I think Mrs K wouldve thought the policies gave important cover to protect the 
repayments on her home. And that the costs and benefits were competitive and gave peace 
of mind. So I dont think Mrs K lost out because I think she wouldve taken the policies if 
shed been given enough proper information about them. And as both were regular monthly 
premium policies, if Mrs K decided that the costs were unaffordable, or that she no longer 
wanted either policy, she couldve cancelled them without penalty. 
I realise that this will be a disappointment for Mrs K, but I do not think that the policies were 
mis-sold to her. It follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
 
 
 
 
 my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman