DRN-1599108
The complaint
Mr H complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) wont pay for a replacement boiler at 
his property
What happened
Mr H had a Homecare insurance policy with British Gas that provided servicing and 
breakdown cover for his boiler. In January 2019, a BG engineer attended the property as the 
boiler wasnt working.
The engineer said the unit was extremely dangerous. He condemned the boiler and capped 
off the gas supply for safety. He said that corrosion on the boiler had caused the heat 
exchanger to fail. But he wasnt able to do a repair as the part needed was no longer 
available for the make and model of Mr Hs boiler. He recommended a new boiler being 
fitted.
Mr H believed that the replacement boiler should be covered under the Homecare policy. He 
said that the boiler must have caught fire when the heat exchanger failed, as part of the 
casing had melted. BG rejected the claim, stating that no fire had occurred and that heat 
stress had caused the damage to the casing, therefore the policy wouldnt provide a 
replacement. Mr H didnt agree, he questioned the difference between heat stress and fire in 
this scenario and thought they should be treated as the same, so brought the complaint to 
us. 
Our investigator reviewed this complaint and didnt think BG had done anything wrong. He 
said that based on the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy, BG had acted correctly in 
declining Mr Hs claim. Mr H didnt agree. He said, the report from the BG engineer, who 
visited the property said the word burnt which is associated with fire. He commented on 
how difficult it would be to identify between fire, explosion or heat stress, as boilers are 
designed to shut down if there is an incident, so the damage seen will be similar. He also 
said that if BG had replaced parts that were corroding at the last service, the boiler wouldnt 
have broken down. The complaint was therefor passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from the correspondence that Mr H feels very strongly that the policy should pay 
out for a new boiler due to fire damage. Ive reviewed Mr Hs policy documents to see what 
cover his policy provides. Im aware it provides cover for repairing the boiler and its controls. 
It also explains it will provide a replacement boiler if;
its less than seven years old
Or its between seven and ten years old, we installed it, and its been 
continuously covered by British Gas under either a warranty or HomeCare 
agreement.Or it caught fire or exploded, providing you gave us access to carry out your 
annual service every year since we first covered you.
 
Its my understanding that the boiler was over 10 years old, so doesnt meet the criteria set 
out in the first two bullet points. My job here therefore is to establish whether BG has fairly 
declined the claim based on whether the boiler caught fire or not. 
The normal, everyday meaning of fire is something that has been ignited, produces flames 
and sends out heat and light. There is a difference between fire and burning as you can burn 
something without having to set fire to it. For example, you can burn toast, but it doesnt 
have to be on fire for the scorch / burn marks to appear. 
Mr H says his boiler must have caught fire as part of the casing has melted. He provided a 
photo showing damage to the outer casing of the boiler, in support. He has also noted that 
the report written by the engineer at the time, mentions the word burnt which he says is 
associated with fire. Ive looked at the report. It says heat exchanger failed, leaking product 
of combustion, burnt up case, melted PCB. While I appreciate the terminology is often 
associated with fire, as mentioned above, it doesnt have to be exclusively, so I dont think 
that this shows that a fire occurred. 
Mr Hs also commented on the fact that boilers are designed to shut down if there is a fire or 
explosion and therefor it is difficult to establish if the damage was caused by fire, explosion 
or heat stress. However, I think professionals are better able to identify between these 
causes. I also think that there is likely to be more damage if a fire or explosion had 
occurred.  
Mr H has said that he thinks heat stress should be considered as fire. Ive thought carefully 
about this. But as fire is usually associated with flames, I think BG is entitled to use the term 
in the way that most people recognise. So, Im satisfied British Gas correctly declined Mr Hs 
claim, based on the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy.
But Mr H has said that British Gas lack of action in previous servicing has caused the 
breakdown of the boiler. So, he feels it should pay to replace it. He has explained that in the 
February 2018 service record, the engineer noted, corrosion throughout, but sound. He has 
suggested that if parts were replaced then, the breakdown may not have occurred. While I 
understand Mr Hs frustrations, as no faults had presented at that point, BG were not under 
any obligation to replace any of the parts. So, I cant see that BG have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr H in the way theyve carried out the annual service of the boiler. I 
also bear in mind that boilers do have a shelf life  and no matter how well they might be 
maintained or serviced, they will need to be replaced at some point. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman