DRN-2167908
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance policy (MPPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out to cover mortgage 
repayments in December 2005. Neither party can recall for sure where the policy was sold. 
The insurance covered Mr P if he was unable to work because of an accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ps complaint. As Santander doesnt agree the matter has come 
to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint because I think Santander more likely recommended 
the MPPI to Mr P, but I do not think that it was suitable for him.
I say this because Mr P had a medical condition which the policy most likely would not have 
covered. Mr P has provided a detailed recollection of his condition and I find this persuasive. 
He has also provided evidence when requested by our service from his health centre, where 
it has confirmed his condition and the date that he was diagnosed with it. This was before 
the date of sale and supports Mr Ps recollections. So, with all of this in mind, I think he might 
not have been able to claim on the policy in all the circumstances he had expected. Because 
of this, I dont think the policy was suitable for him. 
Ive taken into account Santanders comments about requiring further information, but the 
sale took place many years ago and I think Mr P has provided enough to demonstrate that 
the policy was not suitable for him. I think Mr P have lost out as a result of Santanders 
failings in this case, because I dont think he would have taken out the policy if it had asked 
further questions about his circumstances and then advised him that the policy was 
unsuitable.
So, I uphold Mr Ps complaint and Santander need to put things right.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr P into the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out MPPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mr P the amount he paid each month for the MPPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr P made a successful claim under the MPPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
If Santander considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr Ps complaint. And I direct Santander UK Plc to 
pay Mr P compensation in line with the calculation of fair compensation Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman