DRN-2519268
The complaint
 Ms C is unhappy because FCE Bank Plc trading as Ford Credit (FCE) has supplied her with 
a car which she believes wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
 In September 2018, Ms C acquired a new car which she financed through a 39 month hire 
purchase agreement with FCE. The cash price of the car was over £18,400, and it was first 
registered in September 2018.
In November 2018, she returned the car to the dealership as there was a burning smell 
coming from the engine. The gearbox was removed and the clutch was found to be 
overheating. 
During this time, it was discovered that Ms C was a self-employed driving instructor and the 
car was used for her business. Based on the terms of the agreement, she was told she 
wasnt allowed to use the car for this purpose unless she had prior written approval from 
FCE to do so. The dealership believed the issue with the clutch was a result of the car being 
used for driving tuition. Ms C disagreed this was the cause of the issue.
The dealership checked to see if the fault would be covered under the cars warranty 
however it wasnt. It was believed the issue was caused by driving style rather than a 
manufacturing defect. However as a gesture of goodwill, the dealership agreed to replace 
the clutch in November 2018. Ms C was asked to contribute £90 towards the cost of the 
repair. As the car was being used for business purposes, she was told she wasnt entitled to 
compensation. However the dealership reimbursed her around £188 for the cost of a hire car 
and offered two free services.   
Six months later around June 2019, Ms C reported the same issue with the clutch and she 
reported a new issue with the gearbox. She requested to reject the car but this was denied. 
The car was inspected and the torque restrictor was found to be damaged. The dealership 
said this was caused by driving style which was likely due to the car being used for driving 
tuition. Again, Ms C disputed this was the cause because she had stopped working as a 
driving instructor in December 2018. The torque restrictor was replaced by the dealership at 
no cost to Ms C around July 2019. 
Ms C complained to FCE and they said there was insufficient evidence to prove the faults 
were present at the time the car was supplied. Unhappy with their response, the complaint 
was referred to our service. Our investigator reached different opinions but overall he didnt 
believe the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
In response to his second opinion, Ms C provided evidence of an independent inspection 
report which was carried out in September 2019. The car had travelled over 9,700 miles at 
that point. The report concluded the car drove as expected for its age and mileage with no 
selection issues with the gears. However the engineer was concerned as to why the clutch 
needed to be replaced if no clutch slip was evident and why the torque restrictor had failed 
given the cars age and low mileage. The engineer couldnt provide a reason for these 
failures nor could he say if they were present at the time of supply as the parts werent 
available.
In December 2019, the independent inspection engineer said the following further to his 
report:
The clutch can be damaged especially when teaching people to drive but as there was no 
clutch slip this would be hard to identify unless the part was damaged which again, I cannot 
comment on as not inspecting the actual parts.
The gearbox mounting failure (torque restrictor) would be extremely hard to break in the 
timeline suggested, it would be in my opinion that the gearbox mounting would not have 
failed in this time frame even with a driving instructors vehicle.
In light of this further evidence, the investigator upheld the complaint. They concluded the 
faults were likely to be due to a manufacturer defect, especially as the car had stopped being 
used for lessons in December 2018. FCE disagreed and said they didnt believe an 
inspection carried out after a repair could sufficiently determine the cause of the fault. 
While this complaint has been at our service, in June 2020, Ms C voluntarily terminated the 
agreement and as per the agreement terms, she paid around £1,390 in order to bring the 
outstanding balance up to 50%. She said the reasons for voluntarily terminating the 
agreement was because she had lost faith in the car as she believed the clutch was slipping. 
Due to the Covid19 restrictions, her earnings were reduced and she said a new clutch would 
cost her further money. She decided to acquire another car as she thought it would be safer. 
In January 2021, I issued my provisional decision and said:
Ms C acquired a new car under a regulated hire purchase agreement. FCE is the supplier of 
the goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint about 
the supply and the quality of the car.
Throughout the dispute, FCE have maintained the issues were due to the car being used for 
driving lessons which is against their terms of the agreement. However Ms C said she made 
the dealership aware that it would be used for this purpose and Im persuaded this was the 
case. I say this because the hire agreement states she is a self-employed driver instructor so 
on balance I believe she make her intentions clear. Even if I was to believe she hadnt, it 
wouldve been reasonable for the dealership to question whether she would be using the car 
for her employment and to make her aware of the terms. Had they done so, Im not 
convinced she wouldve acquired the car or alternatively she wouldve sought permission 
from FCE as it was crucial to her business. Therefore I consider this agreement was taken 
out for business purposes. 
On this basis, the relevant legislation implies a term into the contract that the quality of the 
goods is satisfactory. To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and mileage at the time of supply and the cars history. 
In this case, FCE supplied Ms C with a brand-new car so I believe its fair to say that a 
reasonable person would expect the quality of a new car to be higher than a more well used one and it would be free from defects and for a significant amount of time. 
The clutch
Ms C said she complained about issues with the car within 30 days of acquiring it and based 
on the evidence of the job cards, it is clear there was a fault with the clutch. The dealership 
found that it was overheating but the clutch hadnt slipped. 
Ive already set out the high expectations, a reasonable person would expect from a new 
car. By November 2018, the car had travelled 3,400 miles and it was only a few months old. 
I wouldnt expect a brand new car to have such a problem and for such a fault to appear so 
soon after it had been supplied, even if it was used for driving tuition. As it would appear the 
clutch failed prematurely, Im not satisfied the car was of satisfactory quality at the time of 
supply meaning there was a breach of contract.
 
To put things right, I would expected a repair to be carried out which is what happened here, 
the clutch was repaired. However the dealership did so as a gesture of goodwill and asked 
Ms C to contribute £90 towards the cost. But as I believe this was a manufacturer fault, the 
repair shouldve been carried out at no cost to Ms C. 
The torque restrictor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                  
Within six months of the clutch repair, Ms C complained about similar issues with the car and 
she requested to reject it. The car had only travelled 7,900 miles and it was less than a year 
old. 
Based on the rights of the relevant legislation, as the car had already been repaired in 
November 2018 and faults remained, Ms C had the right to reject the car at that point and it 
wouldve been reasonable for FCE to allow her to do so but they didnt agree to the rejection.
Instead the car was inspected and it was found that the torque restrictor was damaged and it 
was replaced. No job cards have been provided for me to consider but based on what the 
dealership said, it appears the issue was linked to the earlier fault with the clutch which                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
would suggest the repair in November 2018 was unsuccessful and it didnt fully fix the issue.
 
Im also persuaded by the findings of the engineer who carried out the independent 
inspection report who said he wouldnt expect the torque restrictor to have failed given the                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
age of the car, even if it was used for driving lessons. I say this because Ms C stopped 
working as a driving instructor in December 2018 therefore it wasnt used for driving tuition. 
Therefore, in my opinion a fault remained with the car and the earlier repair to the clutch had 
not successfully rectified the issue. 
As previously mentioned, based on these faults I wouldve expected FCE to allow Ms C to 
reject the car in June 2019 rather than carry out a further repair, had they done so the 
agreement wouldve come to an end and the car returned to FCE. As this didnt happen, Ms 
C remained in possession of the car up to the point she decided to voluntarily terminate the 
agreement in June 2020.
 
Summary Taking everything into account, I believe Ms Cs car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied due to the faults with the clutch and torque restrictor. These parts failed 
prematurely which would suggest there was a problem from the outset. She requested to 
reject the car and in my opinion it wouldve been reasonable for FCE to allow her to do so 
given the failed repair in November 2018 but they failed to do so. As a result of this, she has 
been disadvantaged and I believe FCE now needs to put this right.
Given the circumstances, I believe its fair for FCE to refund the £3,700 deposit and refund 
the amount Ms C paid to bring the agreement balance up to 50%. When the agreement was 
voluntarily terminated, the car had travelled over 11,000 miles so Im satisfied Ms C had fair 
use of the car and she should pay to reflect that so I wont be asking FCE to refund the 
monthly repayments. 
Ms C paid £90 towards the cost of the clutch repair but as I believe this was a manufacturer 
defect, this shouldve been repaired at no cost to her. Therefore FCE should refund this 
amount. While the car was being repaired, she hired a car at a cost of £377 and the 
dealership paid £188 towards it but I think it is fair for FCE to reimburse her for the remaining 
amount.
Ms C has mentioned she lost earnings as a result of the fault with the car being repaired in 
She said she lost approximately £500 in earnings during the 1st week and during the 2nd 
week all of her earnings went towards the hire car.  However there is insufficient evidence 
for me to quantify the exact loss so Ive considered it as part of the overall circumstances. 
Ive also taken into account that during some months, namely November 2018 and June 
2019, Ms Cs experienced impaired use as the car as it wasnt performing as expected 
meaning she had to return it to the dealership on more than one occasion. Taking all these 
circumstances into consideration, I believe FCE should pay £500 for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C and FCE were invited to respond to my provisional decision and both parties accepted 
my findings. Therefore Ive reached the same decision and for the same reasons.
 My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Ms Cs complaint. 
To put things right, FCE Bank Plc must:
- Refund the deposit amount (£3,700) plus pay 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of payment up to the date of settlement;
- Refund the £1,392.18 paid to bring the agreement balance up to 50% plus pay 8% 
simple interest per year from the date of payment up to the date of settlement;
- Refund the £90 she paid towards the clutch repair plus pay 8% simple interest from 
the date of payment up to the date of settlement;- Pay the hire car invoice of £377 (4 to 11 December 2018), less the £188.23 
previously paid by the dealership, plus pay 8% simple interest per year from the date 
of the invoice up to the date of settlement;
- Pay £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Ms C. 
*If FCE Bank Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms C how much its taken off. It should also give Ms C a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman