DRN-4300183
The complaint
Mrs F complained that Secure Trust Bank Plc, trading as V12 Retail Finance (Secure 
Trust) irresponsibly granted a personal loan in August 2018 that she couldnt afford to 
repay, and that it didnt write off the balance in 2021 when she had financial difficulties.
What happened
In August 2018, Mrs F took out a loan of £1,392.99 to purchase a bike. The agreement was 
over 48 months, and the total amount payable with interest was £1,855.20. The monthly 
repayment was £38.65. 
Mrs F has since suffered health problems, and Secure Trust wrote off the remaining balance 
as a gesture of goodwill in February 2023. However, Mrs F thinks the loan shouldnt have 
been granted at all, and is unhappy that her credit record has been affected. She is also 
unhappy that, having contacted Secure Trust about the loan in 2021, it didnt agree to write 
off the loan balance at that point. 
Mrs F complained to Secure Trust about this, and also complained that it had not written off 
the balance in the promised timeframe. Secure Trust upheld this last element of the 
complaint, accepting that it had not met the agreed timeframe. But it didnt uphold Mrs Fs 
complaint about the original lending. 
Mrs F then brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it, but didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs F didnt agree, and asked for her complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website, and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why. 
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks required of a lender, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering matters such as the type and amount 
of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and 
the consumers circumstances. So Ive considered whether Secure Trust completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs F would be able to make the 
repayments on the loan account in a sustainable way.
Mrs F sent in a copy of her credit report, and some bank statements from the early part of 
2018, along with information from her GP explaining her health problems (although these 
were dated 2020). Secure Trust sent in copies of the loan agreement and payment history 
and explained the figures it had used in deciding whether to grant the loan. It said that the 
information provided by Mrs F at the time indicated a monthly income of at least £1,400, and 
it estimated her expenditure - including the payment for the new loan  at around £900, 
leaving a good amount of disposable income. 
Ive looked at the credit report Mrs F sent in, and I cant see any information to contradict 
this. The credit agreements that Mrs F had at the time show no missed payments, and 
theres nothing to suggest that the estimated expenditure was out of line. Ive also kept in 
mind that the new monthly commitment was less than £40, a relatively modest amount. So 
Ive no evidence to suggest that Mrs F would have had difficulty in meeting the payments. 
Mrs F mentioned in passing that she was in a debt management plan when the loan was 
granted. She has provided no details of this, and her credit history shows no missed 
payments that would suggest financial difficulties, or any arrangements to pay listed against 
any of her credit commitments. So Ive no evidence of a debt management plan being in 
place in 2018. 
So taking all this into account, Im satisfied Secure Trust carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks before agreeing the loan, and I dont think it acted unfairly in granting it 
 theres nothing to suggest that the monthly payments were unsustainable at the time of the 
application. 
Secure Trust told us about the history of the account since it started. It said that payments 
were made successfully until August 2020, when Mrs F requested a payment holiday due to 
COVID 19. A further payment holiday was requested and agreed in November 2020, again 
due to the pandemic.
Secure Trust then said that in April 2021 Mrs F asked to reduce her monthly payments going 
forward as she was experiencing financial difficulties. It agreed a reduced monthly payment 
of £20.00 for a period of six months. It said that the payment holidays and reduced payments 
were requested due a change in circumstances rather than a concern about affordability 
when the loan was granted. 
In September 2021 Mrs F asked to extend the payment arrangement, and at this point made 
Secure Trust aware of her health problems, at which time her account was adopted by its 
Specialist Support Team and a further payment arrangement was agreed for seven months. 
Secure Trust told us that, in November 2021, Mrs F complained that she should never have 
been given the loan. It did not uphold the complaint, for the same reasons as outlined above. 
I should say here that Secure Trust has looked again at this point following Mrs Fs recent 
complaint, reaching the same conclusions. 
The payment history shows that Mrs F continued to pay £20 per month, and the account 
continued to be managed by the Specialist Support Team, until she contacted Secure Trust 
in January 2023, requesting that the remaining balance be written off due to her personal 
circumstances. This was agreed as a gesture of goodwill. As I noted above, Secure Trust 
didnt deal with this in the agreed timeframe, but it did settle the account in February 2023. 
Mrs F has now questioned why Secure Trust didnt write off the balance in 2021 if it has 
done so now. Ive thought about what she said about this, but I dont think Secure Trust 
could fairly have been required to write off the balance at that point. I dont have full details 
of what she told Secure Trust at that time, but as Ive said I dont think that it did anything 
wrong in granting the loan, and Mrs F has had the benefit of it. So on the basis of the limited 
information I have, I think Secure Trust acted fairly in agreeing to reduced payments rather 
than anything more. Its decision now to write off the remaining balance is a goodwill gesture. Turning to Mrs Fs credit file, the copy I have is from June last year, and the loan is recorded 
as having an arrangement to pay. This is a correct representation of the position at the time. 
I note that Mrs F has also referred to entries on her credit record following the write-off of the 
loan balance. I dont have a full copy of Mrs Fs current credit record, so I cant say with 
certainty that the writing off of the balance has been correctly reflected, although equally I 
dont have evidence that it hasnt. I do think it would be helpful for Secure Trust to contact 
Mrs F in writing with an explanation of the information it has provided to the credit reference 
agencies about this loan since writing it off, and what she should expect to show up on her 
credit record, if it has not already done so. 
In summary, I do not consider that Secure Trust acted unfairly in granting the loan to Mrs F 
in 2018. Neither do I consider that it acted unfairly in agreeing a reduced payment rather 
than writing off the balance in 2021. Therefore I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman