DRN-3792150
The complaint
Mr D has a number of complaints about his mortgage account with Lloyds Bank PLC trading 
as Scottish Widows Bank. He says that Lloyds wouldnt communicate with him by email, as 
a result of which he wasnt able to request a payment holiday during the pandemic. Mr D is 
also unhappy that he was charged consent to let (CTL) fees, and that he wasnt able to 
access his online banking account.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here, or to comment on every single point thats 
been raised. I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. In addition, our 
decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead to 
Mr D being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite 
brief.
Briefly, Mr D has a mortgage with Lloyds. He is unhappy about being charged CTL fees on 
the account. Mr D is also unhappy that Lloyds wont communicate with him through email. 
Mr D wanted to request a payment holiday during the pandemic, but due to arrears on the 
mortgage, Lloyds suspended access to online banking so he wasnt able to access his 
account to request this.
Mr D complained to Lloyds, but the bank didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D brought his 
complaint to us.
An ombudsman decided that we could only consider the CTL fees that had been applied 
from 2019 onwards. Thats because Mr D had complained about CTL fees before and an 
ombudsman had issued a decision about CTL fees applied up to 2018. It therefore wasnt 
appropriate for us to reconsider those fees. 
But in relation to CTL fees from 2018-2021 inclusive, an investigator was satisfied that Mr D 
hadnt provided Lloyds with the evidence the bank required to satisfy it that he was, in fact, 
living in the property. It wasnt until 2022 that Mr D did so. 
In relation to the payment holiday request, it was noted that there were missed payments on 
the account for September, November and December 2020, and Lloyds had written to Mr D 
about these. The investigator didnt think Lloyds was obliged to contact Mr D by email about 
these missed payments; it was up to the bank to decide how to contact customers, and 
Lloyds didnt consider email to be a sufficiently secure medium.
The investigator noted that, after Mr Ds online banking access was suspended due to the 
mortgage arrears, the bank had twice sent him a link so he could complete an online form to 
apply for a payment holiday. However, Mr D didnt go through this process, or contact the 
bank about a payment holiday. 
Overall, the investigator didnt think Lloyds had treated Mr D unfairly.
Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Hes made detailed 
comments, the majority of which are about his dissatisfaction with the investigation, which he 
considered to be biased. Mr D was disappointed that the investigator hadnt applied the 
standards of equity used by the courts, and that his peers dont feel the ombudsman helps 
the consumer. The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. When requesting a 
final decision, Mr D said that the investigator hadnt taken into account letters hed written to 
the bank in 2009 and reiterated his belief that the investigator had dealt with his complaint on 
a case-hardened, prejudicial basis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I have disappointing news for Mr D; Im not upholding his 
complaint. These are my reasons.
First of all, I confirm that I agree with the ombudsmans dismissal decision dated 
20 June 2022 when he explained that, because Mr D had had an ombudsmans decision 
dated 9 December 2019 about previous CTL fees (up to 2018), we would not be able to 
reconsider those. 
I must also mention that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a consumer champion. So 
although Ive noted Mr Ds comments about what he considers to be a lack of help from us, 
we are impartial and do not take the side of either party to a complaint. I said at the outset 
that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, as our enabling 
legislation allows me to do, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material 
effect on the outcome. I can see from his submissions how important this is to Mr D. Thats a 
natural reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as he is 
here. 
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. 
In relation to the CTL fees from 2019 onwards, Im satisfied from my review of the evidence 
that it wasnt until 2022 that Mr D provided Lloyds with evidence that he was living in the 
property. Mr Ds position is that, because he says he wasnt renting out the property, he 
didnt see why he needed to prove this to the bank. But I think the bank made it quite clear 
what it needed, and I think Mr D would also have been aware, from the previous complaint 
hed made, of the importance of providing this evidence to the bank. Given this, Im not 
persuaded Lloyds acted unreasonably in applying CTL fees for 2019, 2020 and 2021. I dont 
uphold this part of the complaint.
The mortgage fell into arrears, as a result of which Lloyds suspended access to online 
banking. Thats a decision Lloyds is entitled to make; I dont have any power to tell the bank 
what policies it should have in place or how to run its business. It is a part of the banks 
attitude towards risk to limit access to accounts in certain situations, which is a commercial 
decision with which I would not interfere.
Mr D said that the banks refusal to communicate with him by email meant he wasnt able to 
request a payment holiday. In common with other banks, Lloyds doesnt communicate by email other than for generic correspondence, as it is not considered to be a secure medium. 
Lloyds is entitled to do this, as the bank is under an obligation to keep its customers 
information secure. After Mr D requested a payment holiday, Lloyds twice sent him a link to 
a form on its website that he could complete to request a payment holiday. There is no 
record of Mr D completing the online form. Nor did he contact Lloyds if he was having 
difficulty completing it. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded Mr D was treated unfairly in 
this respect.
I am glad Mr D has now resolved the situation regarding CTL for 2022. I am sure he is now 
aware of the need to inform Lloyds if the property is being rented out and, particularly, to 
provide evidence that it is not, if the bank asks him to do so.
My final decision
I know Mr D will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman