DRN-1890226
 
Complaint
Mr O complains that Bradford & Bingley plc (Bradford & Bingley) mis-sold him a monthly 
premium mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr O took out a mortgage with Bradford & Bingley in 1991. He was sold a PPI policy at the 
same time in connection with this mortgage.  The PPI would have provided a monthly benefit 
for up to 24 months if Mr O was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Os complaint should be upheld. Bradford & Bingley didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in this case in April 2020 explaining why I didnt intend to 
uphold this complaint. I have copied below my findings from my provisional decision which 
form part of my final decision.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they would like 
me to consider before I reached my final decision. Neither Nationwide nor Mr B have 
provided anything further for me to consider in terms of the mis-sale.
Mr B has mentioned that Bradford & Bingley previously partially upheld his complaint. 
However, this was in relation to a change in Mr Bs circumstances in 1997 when he went to 
work abroad. Bradford & Bingley offered to refund premiums Mr B paid from 1 March 1997 to 
1 August 1999 as they said that Mr B should have been advised that the policy wouldnt 
have been suitable for him at this point. My final decision does not impact upon Bradford & 
Bingleys offer in relation to this as it only deals with whether or not PPI was mis-sold at the 
outset and not with what happened after the sale.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Os case.
As I have not been provided with anything further to consider from either party in respect of 
the sale of PPI, I have no reason to depart from the findings as set out in my provisional 
decision. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint for the same reasons as those set out in 
my provisional decision. My findings from my provisional decision are set out below and form 
part of my final decision: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Os case.
Having done that, I currently dont think that Mr Os complaint should be upheld. I appreciate 
that this will come as a disappointment to Mr O, particularly as our adjudicator thought 
otherwise. But I will go on to explain why I have reached this decision.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr O was eligible under the policy. Given Mr Os age, 
employment and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied he was eligible.
Bradford & Bingley had to make it clear to Mr O that the PPI was optional and needed his 
consent before it could be applied to Mr Os account. Mr O says that it was implied that PPI 
was part of the mortgage. Bradford & Bingley say that the optional nature of the PPI was 
made clear to Mr O and that he chose to take it out.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale so Ive thought about everything Mr O 
and Bradford & Bingley have told us and looked to the available documents to help me 
decide what is more likely to have happened during the sale.
Bradford & Bingley have provided us with a copy of the mortgage application form. The 
mortgage application form had a section headed Payment Protection Insurance. 
Immediately beneath this was a question asking Mr O whether he would like to take 
advantage of PPI. The box next to this question could have been answered with a Yes or 
No. I can see that a handwritten Yes has been entered into the box. There is also a tick 
next to the level of cover requested and further information entered such as the monthly 
benefit amount and what it covers.
I note what Mr O has said. However, the evidence Ive seen shows that PPI was presented 
as optional. There was no obligation on Mr O to take PPI and the onus would have been on 
Mr O to check what he had agreed to on the mortgage application form when he signed it. 
Having taken everything into consideration, while I appreciate what Mr O has told us, I think 
its more likely that PPI was presented as optional and that Mr O chose to take it out and 
thats how it came to be applied to the account.
Bradford & Bingley say they didnt advise Mr O to take PPI. While I consider there to have 
been some discussion around PPI given what has been entered on the PPI section of the 
application form, I havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude that Bradford & Bingley 
advised Mr O to take PPI. 
This means they didnt have to take steps to check that the PPI was suitable for Mr O. So for 
example, they didnt have to take into account what Mr Os existing repayment provisions 
were, such as what Mr O has told us about his sick pay and his income protection policy. 
This point is very important and is the reason that I dont agree with the adjudicator that Mr 
Os complaint should be held. I dont doubt that Mr O had other provisions in place but it 
would have been for him to check whether he wanted to take the PPI out despite his existing 
repayment provisions, there was no onus on Bradford & Bingley to do so.
However, Bradford & Bingley still had to give Mr O clear information about the PPI  in 
particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions in the policy  so that he could make 
an informed decision about whether or not to take it out.
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr O wasnt as clear as it should have 
been but this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better information would have meant that Mr O wouldnt have taken the policy out. 
And I dont think it would have.
I say this because at the very least Mr O would have been aware that he was taking out a 
policy which would protect his repayments in the event of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. And as I have already found, he chose to take this cover out so it looks like 
he wanted this cover despite his existing means. Better information about the policy would 
have shown him that the PPI would have paid out in addition to his sick pay, and while his 
income protection policy may have had restrictions, the PPI policy itself would havent 
prevented him from claiming in addition to his other means. The cost of the policy was 
reasonable in comparison to the benefit it provided and it doesnt look like Mr O was affected 
by the more restrictive terms/exclusions in the policy which would have made it difficult for 
him to make a successful claim under the policy. Mr O could have cancelled the policy at 
any time without losing out financially if he no longer wanted it.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont currently think Bradford & Bingley mis-
sold Mr O this PPI policy.
For the reasons set out above, I dont think Bradford & Bingley mis-sold Mr O PPI.
As already mentioned this final decision only relates to whether or not the PPI was mis-sold 
at the outset and is not intended to impact the offer that Bradford & Bingley have made to Mr 
O previously in relation to the refund of premiums between March 1997 and August 1999. I 
have not considered the merits of this offer as part of this decision. Mr O should contact 
Bradford & Bingley in the first instance should he now wish to accept their offer.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Os mis-sale of PPI complaint against Bradford & Bingley plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman