DRN-4170925
The complaint
Mr N complains Retirement Line Limited (Retirement Line) made errors during the transfer of 
his funds to purchase two annuities. He says he is financially worse off as a result and asks 
to be compensated.
What happened
Mr N contacted Retirement Line about using part of his pension funds to set up annuities. 
After some discussion about the available options, he decided to proceed with two fixed term 
annuities with a provider Ill call L.
One of Mr Ns pension funds comprised of a large holding of cash and several equities. He 
authorised Retirement Line to transfer the majority of the cash holding to purchase the 
annuities leaving a small cash residue and all of the shares he held within his Self-Invested 
Pension Plan (SIPP).
Unfortunately, an error occurred, and Retirement Line submitted a request to transfer the full 
amount of Mr Ns pension rather than requesting a partial transfer. This had the effect of the 
investments in Mr Ns fund being sold.
Mr N discovered the error very quickly and he attempted to cancel the transfer and annuity 
purchase. He telephoned Retirement Line about what had happened on 28 November and 
on 1 December he asked them to reinstate his investments and made a formal complaint.
Retirement Line investigated Mr Ns complaint. It issued its final response on 19 January 
2023. It agreed it had made an error by not requesting a partial transfer and offered him 
£250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. It also agreed to pay £287.68 which 
represented the fee Mr N would have incurred buying back the shares within his pension 
policy. But, as Mr N hadnt, at that time, bought back any of the shares that had been sold 
they didnt agree to compensate him for the loss of his investments.
Mr N remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr N. She didnt think Retirement Line had acted fairly. 
In her view she said she thought Retirement Line was responsible for any loss Mr N 
experienced with the investments within his pension between the date they were sold 
(approximately 28 November 2022) and when Mr N could reasonably have made different 
investment choices. She thought a reasonable date was up to 6 February 2023 when Mr N 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Retirement Line didnt agree. It said although Retirement Line accepted it made an error, 
and therefor accepted responsibility for fully disinvesting Mr N's SIPP funds, it didnt agree 
that it was responsible for reinvesting his funds. It pointed out that it couldnt have done this 
as the SIPP provider doesnt deal with intermediaries and it was Mr Ns responsibility to 
reinvest his own funds, but he chose not to. 
Retirement Line asks for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have independently reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr N and by Retirement Line. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead, this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Theres no dispute here that Retirement Line made an error, for which it accepts 
responsibility. It doesnt agree that it should calculate whether a financial loss was incurred 
as it says the responsibility for re-investment lay with Mr N. So, what I must decide is 
whether Retirement Line has been fair and reasonable in its offer to put things right.
The basis of this complaint lies in the error, had it acted correctly on Mr Ns instruction, the 
investments would never have been sold. In cases like this my starting point is, as I have 
said, to try and put Mr N back in the position he would have been in had the error not 
occurred.
I have listened to the calls between Mr N and Retirement Line. Mr N acted swiftly when he 
discovered the error and asked Retirement Line to put things right. 
Retirement Line told this service it made it clear during one of the calls the reinvestment of 
the pension fund was Mr Ns responsibility. Im afraid Im not persuaded that was the case. 
The representative asked questions about whether any reinvestments had been made or 
whether hed spoken to anyone about this. Although Mr N didnt say he wanted Retirement 
Line to repurchase the shares, he does make it clear that someone from Retirement Line 
needs to come back to him to advise him how it was going to compensate him for the 
unauthorised selling of his investments. So, I think its reasonable that he would have waited 
for Retirement Line to do so before he took any further action. 
I take Retirements Lines point that it may not have been able to carry out the re-investment 
on behalf of Mr N, but I dont accept that means it wasnt able to redress the situation. As our 
investigator said, it could have agreed to pay the additional costs (including as a result of 
share price changes) to reinstate the pensions value. Whether or not Mr N would need to 
get involved or whether the SIPP provider would have agreed to the reinstatement is a moot 
point  this is about putting Mr N, as far as possible, back in the position he would have been 
in, had the error not occurred in the first place. 
Whilst I agree it wasnt unreasonable for Mr N to wait for a response from Retirement Line, 
once he was aware it was not going to correct the error in the way he had asked, Im 
persuaded that should be reflected in the timeline of the calculations. I think the investigators suggestion of calculating any loss up to the date Mr N brought his complaint to this service 
(6 February 2023) is a reasonable period of time for Mr N to have considered his options.
The fact that he has chosen not to re purchase the same stocks since then is a matter for Mr 
N and Im not persuaded it makes a material difference. I say this because from the 
information available, its clear Mr N wanted to retain the equities within his SIPP, had 
Retirement Line not made the error in the first place, he wouldnt be in the position of having 
to determine whether it was in his financial interests to re-purchase the same shares. 
Having said that, because Mr N has chosen to make different investment decisions I wont 
be asking Retirement Line to pay any reinvestment costs.
Retirement Line has offered to pay Mr N £250 for the inconvenience this matter has caused 
him and I find that to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things right Retirement Line should undertake the following calculation to identify if Mr 
N has suffered a financial loss:
Establish the value of the investments, erroneously encashed in November 2022, as of 6 
February 2023. This represents the notional value of this part of Mr Ns pension assuming 
the investments had been retained and should include any dividends.
Determine the actual transfer value of the same proportion of Mr Ns pension plan (i.e., the 
total value of the investments sold in November 2022) on 6 February 2023.
The difference between the two represents Mr Ns financial loss (or gain).
If the notional amount calculated in 1 is higher than the actual value in 2 then Mr N has 
suffered a financial loss as of 6 February 2023. 
The loss amount represented by the difference between the amounts calculated in 1 and 2 
should then be brought up to date by reflecting the actual performance of Mr Ns pension 
fund from 6 February 2023 to the date of calculation.
If the notional amount calculated in 1 is equal to or lower than the actual amount in 2, Mr N 
has not suffered a financial loss and no redress is due.
Any compensation due to Mr N should, if possible, be added to his pension fund. If a 
payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should 
be paid directly to Mr N as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Pay Mr N £250 for the inconvenience this matter has caused him if it has not already done 
so. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and direct Retirement Line Limited to 
carry out the redress as detailed in the putting things right section of this decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman