DRN-3014419
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as B have complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly turned down 
its business interruption insurance claim after it was impacted by the Governments 
response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr C, a director of B, has brought the complaint on Bs behalf.
What happened
B held a business interruption insurance policy with Allianz. It claimed on its policy after its 
business was forced to close by the Governments response to the national pandemic. 
Allianz said the claim wasnt covered because Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property, 
and while the policy provided cover for a specified list of illnesses, Covid-19 wasnt on that 
list. 
B claimed on its policy again following the Supreme Court judgment on the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case. However, Allianz said the outcome of this hadnt 
impacted Bs claim and so again declined its claim. 
Unhappy with Allianzs response, B brought its complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into Bs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think Bs claim was 
covered under the main section of the business interruption insurance policy or the 
extension for denial of access because Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property. He also 
didnt think the extension for specified illnesses covered Bs claim either because Covid-19 
wasnt one of the illnesses listed on the policy. 
B asked for an ombudsman to review its complaint. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Bs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Allianz has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Bs claim.
Damage
The terms and conditions of the policy say that:
The Insurer will indemnify the Insured for Business Interruption as a result of 
Damage occurring during the Period of Insurance
Damage is specifically defined in this section of the policy as 
Destruction, damage or loss insured under Sections 1 and 7 of this Policy 
Section 1 of the policy is trade contents. Section 7 is buildings which B doesnt have cover 
for as part of the policy. For cover to apply under this section, Bs business interruption 
would have to have been as a result of destruction, damage or loss insured under the trade 
contents section of the policy. I havent seen anything to indicate Covid-19 caused damage 
to Bs contents, so I dont think this provides cover for the circumstances of its claim.
Denial of access
The cover provided by the policy is extended through various extensions. This extension 
says:
Loss as insured by this Section resulting from interruption of or interference with 
the Business in consequence of destruction, damage or loss caused by any 
Event covered under Section 1 Trade Contents to property in the vicinity of the 
Premises which shall prevent or hinder the use of or access to the Premises, 
whether the Insureds property or the buildings at the Premises be Damaged or 
not.
For this extension to provide cover, the interruption or interference to Bs business would 
need to be in consequence of destruction, damage or loss to property in the vicinity of Bs 
premises which prevented or hindered access to the use of Bs premises. As I havent seen 
anything to indicate Covid-19 caused damage to property in Bs vicinity that hindered or 
prevented access to its premises, unfortunately I dont think this extension covers its claim 
either. 
Specified illness
The relevant part of this extension covers loss as a direct result of a specified illness either 
at the business premises or within a 25 mile radius. The policy defines specified illness as 
either food or drink poisoning or any of the illnesses set out in a list following the extension. 
This extension doesnt provide B with cover in the circumstances of its claim, as Covid 19 
isnt one of the specified illnesses.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid-19 wasnt something Allianz might have
known about when the policy was drafted. However, there are policies that provide cover for
all notifiable diseases, which is a defined list of diseases, updated by the Government, and
which does include Covid-19. In contrast, Bs policy sets out a specified list of illnesses 
which are covered by the policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that it 
provides cover for illnesses not included, including any new illnesses which emerge. The
purpose and effect of this policy is to provide cover in the event of these specific illnesses.
There are in fact many illnesses that the policy doesnt cover. Therefore, I dont think the 
policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases.
B has referred to the Supreme Court judgment following the FCA test case however, the 
outcome of the claim would still depend on the terms of the policy. And having considered 
the matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Allianz to pay Bs claim. 
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman