DRN-2133919
The complaint
Ms H says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Ms H bought the policy in 1994 at the same time as taking out a store card in the store. It 
covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Hs case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ms Hs application had a section for optional features, one of which was PPI. It gave an 
overview of what the policy was for, and then had two options to choose from: one to take 
out PPI and one to turn it down. The option to buy PPI was ticked, whereas the option to turn 
it down was left blank. Ms Hs representative says she wouldve been given the impression 
that she had to complete this section. But even if that was the case, I think it was clear that it 
was offering her a choice about whether shed like PPI or not. I can see that Ms H didnt sign 
up for all the optional features, so it seems she knew she had a choice. Ive not seen any 
wider problems with AXAs sales process from the time  indeed, from what Ive seen, in 
order to get this type of policy around this time, customers had to actively choose it. And Ive 
not seen anything which would make me think that Ms H was misled into buying PPI here. 
So I think its most likely that Ms H was made aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, 
and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer recalls 
doing so after so many years.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms H, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Ms H enough information to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Ms H about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. That, on its own, does not necessarily mean that the policy was mis-sold. Rather, the 
question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed her mind. 
Here, it looks like Ms H chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on 
top of her work benefits and savings and covered her for far longer. And while I understand 
her partner may have been happy to help, there was always the chance theyd be unable to 
help when needed. So the policy could have been useful for Ms H in case something went 
wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Ms H could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have 
put her off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman