DRN-1555932
The complaint
Mr Y is unhappy with the handling of his motor insurance claim by UK Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mr Y had a motor insurance policy with UK Insurance Limited (UKI). In December 2018, his 
car was involved in an accident and was damaged. Mr Y contacted UKI and ultimately 
registered a claim for this. 
His car was taken to a garage authorised by UKI to carry out repair work. However, these 
repairs were not carried out to the required standard and the car was returned on multiple 
occasions for further works. One of the major issues apparently related to the alignment of 
replacement parts, with the repairs leaving gaps between body panels, etc. 
Several attempts by the garage to rectify these issues proved unsuccessful, despite UKIs 
assessors saying that the repairs were completed to an appropriate standard. So, Mr Y 
obtained an inspection report of his own.  
This report indicated almost £2,500 worth of repairs was still required. UKI authorised this 
work to take place, but when a strip down of the car by Mr Ys garage revealed the work 
would cost more than £4,000, UKI took the decision that the repairs were uneconomical and 
considered the car a total loss. UKI referred to previous repairs required on the car in 2014, 
before Mr Y had owned it, and that the problems with alignment were connected to this.
UKI offered Mr Y £4,400 as a settlement of his claim. And £550 in compensation for the 
handling of this claim. 
Mr Y is predominantly unhappy because he feels the garage instructed by UKI has caused 
the majority of these costs through poor quality repairs. And that the original damage and 
claim would not have warranted the car being considered a total loss. 
Our investigator thought that whilst the garage had increased the cost of repair, there were a 
number of problems that were missed on the original inspection. These problems would 
always have had to have been fixed, and had they been identified at the beginning, repairing 
the car would have uneconomical from the outset. So, she felt UKIs offer of compensation 
and cash settlement of the claim was fair and reasonable.
As Mr Y remained unsatisfied with this, his complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although UKIs assessors had previously said that the works carried out by the garage it had 
instructed were appropriate, it has since accepted that further work was required. It has also 
accepted that some of this was to correct issues caused by this garage. So, the main issue for me to determine is whether the cost of the original claim means that 
UKIs decision to consider Mr Ys car a total loss is fair and reasonable. I.e. would the car 
have always required a level of repair that was uneconomical?
In his response to our investigator, Mr Y has set out a key consideration in determining this. 
He said:
there needs to be a differentiation between what what [sic] should have been carried 
out as a result of the accident and what is now the result of a very poor standard of 
repair and workmanship.
I agree it is the cost of the repairs required as a result of the accident that determine the 
potential size of this claim. Any additional costs that have been incurred as a result of UKIs 
approved garage should not form part of this. 
Before I move on to consider this further though, I feel it is useful to outline some of the 
standard approaches this service takes when considering complaints of this nature. Whilst 
we consider each complaint on its own individual circumstances, there are approaches that 
we apply to general situations.  
We would often consider it fair and reasonable for a motor insurer to settle a claim as a total 
loss where the costs of repairs approach the total cost of the pre-accident value of the 
vehicle. Our investigator referred to this as being around 60-70% of the pre-accident value, 
and I dont consider this inappropriate. 
The pre-accident market value UKI has applied to Mr Ys car is £4,400. I will consider this 
valuation in more detail below, but for the moment will assume this is correct. This would 
mean that if the cost of the work that would always have been required on Mr Ys car was 
around £2,640 (60% of this valuation) or more, we would likely consider UKIs decision to 
consider the car a total loss to be fair and reasonable.
However, as Mr Ys comment above indicates, this would be the cost of repairing the initial 
damage to the vehicle. It would not include any increased costs that result from poor 
workmanship, especially where that workmanship has been carried out on the instruction of 
the insurer. 
In terms of the valuation, the insurance policy Mr Y has with UKI says that a claim for total 
loss will be settled at the market value of the car. This is the cost of replacing the car with 
another of the same make and model, and of a similar age and condition to that just before 
the accident or loss.
When considering the value of a car, insurers often rely on industry valuation guides, and we 
usually consider this to be appropriate. Although Mr Y did identify a similar car being 
advertised for more than the amount he was offered in settlement, largely speaking he has 
not disputed this valuation. And the valuation of £4,400 for Mr Ys car is in line with the 
industry guides, taking into account its features and condition. So, I consider UKIs valuation 
of Mr Ys car to be fair and reasonable. 
I should also say that the terms of the policy Mr Y had with UKI refer to settlements being 
made by cash settlement rather than repair. And that it is UKIs choice on how to settle a 
claim. 
I do consider that once UKI has decided to repair it would usually be fair and reasonable for 
those repairs to be completed. However, where the original estimated cost of repairs greatly increases through no fault of UKI or its approved garage, it would not be fair or reasonable to 
expect UKI to continue with such repairs if these are uneconomical.
Turning back to the key issue, the question I need to determine is whether, prior to the 
commencement of any works, the cost of returning Mr Ys car to its pre-accident condition 
was more than £2,640? 
The first thing I need to stress is that this service does not act as an expert in car repairs. In 
coming to my decision, I have relied on the evidence provided by both parties.
It is clear that some of the initial repairs carried out were not satisfactory, and the costs of 
rectifying these should not form part of the claim cost. Certain parts on the car needed 
replacing twice. For example, Mr Y has referred to the engine cover and front bumper. It 
would not be reasonable for the cost of replacing these twice to be included in the estimated 
repair costs. But one replacement of these parts, which were damaged in the accident, 
would always have been required and so including the cost of this would be reasonable.
It is most likely that the initial inspection of the vehicle did not identify all of the repairs 
required as a result of the accident. Partly this seems to be because they were not revealed 
prior to a full strip down of the car. I note that, upon strip down, Mr Ys own garage 
discovered additional work that it had not initially identified. So, it seems the repairs here 
were not identifiable immediately. It should also be noted that UKIs engineer has also 
suggested that there may be additional works required on the car that have not yet been 
identified. 
Much of the difficulty with the repairs evidently arises from alignment problems. And UKI has 
suggested that this was the result of repairs carried out following a previous accident. 
However, although UKIs engineer has commented that these are long lasting alignment 
issues, I am not persuaded that these issues did exist prior to Mr Ys accident. Mr Y has 
provided photos showing that the relevant panels aligned adequately prior to the accident. 
And if the same issues existed after his own accident, it should have been possible to 
achieve a similar alignment. 
I should say that if the issues with alignment were present before the accident, this would 
likely reduce the pre-accident market value of Mr Ys car, and consequently lower the 
amount that would lead to the repairs being uneconomical. Additionally, any repairs required 
in relation to the alignment would need to be paid for by Mr Y, as they would not have 
related to the insured incident.
Working on the basis the alignment issues were not pre-existing, this leaves two 
possibilities. The alignment issues were caused by the repairs carried out by UKIs approved 
garage or were as a result of Mr Ys accident. 
However, I am not persuaded that these particular issues were caused by UKIs garage. 
Both Mr Ys garage and UKI agree that the crossmember was in a damaged condition. And 
that, rather than replacing or repairing this, UKIs garage attempted to modify other parts to 
make them fit around this damaged crossmember.  
This in itself seems to have caused damage to parts that otherwise would not have needed 
repair or replacement. But the underlying issue here was the damaged crossmember. And 
with this damaged, there would always have been alignment issues that were not caused by 
UKIs garage. So it seems most likely to me that the issues were caused by Mr Ys accident.Mr Y has said that there were a number of parts that only needed to be replaced as a result 
of by UKIs garage modifying parts. According to Mr Y, these parts included the right front 
wing, wheel house cover, and door, as well as the bumper clamp kit. 
There is some supporting evidence of this from the report his garage compiled, which 
comments that the wing had poor previous repair causing bumper not to fit. This isnt 
conclusive that this wing did not require any repair or replacement as a result of Mr Ys 
accident. But, for the moment, I will reach my decision assuming that the replacement of this 
was only necessary as a result of the 2019 repair work, rather than either the accident in 
2014 or Mr Ys accident. 
If UKIs garage led to these repairs, the cost of them should be taken off the claim for 
repairing the damage caused by the accident. 
The total costs on the report Mr Y has provided were though just under £4,200. In order for 
the repairs required from the accident to be economical, the deductions for works caused by 
UKIs garage would have to total around £1,500.
Looking at this report, the estimated costs for parts, labour, and paintwork for the issues 
Mr Y has listed comes to around £570. An exact figure is difficult to determine as not all 
costs are listed separately, etc. But this is significantly less than the size of the deduction 
required above. And I am not persuaded that the additional work caused by UKIs garage 
was significant enough to mean that, had this not happened, the cost of repairing the 
damage caused directly by Mr Ys accident would have been in the region of £2,640 or less. 
As such, the cost of repairing the damage to Mr Ys car, directly caused by the accident he 
was involved in, was most likely more than £2,640. So, I consider UKI acted fairly and 
reasonably in determining the cost of repair uneconomical and that the car was a total loss.
It is clear though that this claim did not progress as it should have. UKI is ultimately 
responsible to Mr Y for the actions of its approved garage and engineers. And it is evident 
that repairs were not carried out as they should have been. This extended the length of the 
claim and caused Mr Y trouble and upset that could otherwise have been avoided. 
Additionally, Mr Y not only suffered a traumatic accident, but also experienced several 
difficult life events during this claim, which added to the distress he was experiencing as a 
result of the claim process.
However, balanced against the multiple problems that should have been avoided, UKI itself 
did provide Mr Y with an appropriate level of customer service during this time. On occasion 
this went beyond the terms of his policy  for example providing him with a van for a period 
when his activities required. Arguably had the claim been resolved, these additional 
measures would not have been needed. But, UKI did seek to minimise the impact on Mr Y.
Taking all of the circumstances into account, I consider that UKIs offer of £550 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I conclude that the offer to settle Mr Ys claim and the offer of compensation made by 
U K Insurance Limited is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that 
U K Insurance Limited should pay Mr Y £550 and settle his claim as a total loss.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.Sam Thomas
Ombudsman