DRN-3765549
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has voided their
contents insurance policy and declined their claim.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr and Mrs O took out a contents insurance policy with RSA. In October 2020
they were unfortunately burgled, and a number of items were stolen. Mr and Mrs O made a
claim to RSA.
During the course of the claim, RSA concluded Mr and Mrs Os total contents and valuables
were worth significantly more than the sum insured limits on their insurance policy.
RSA said that if theyd known the value of the total contents and valuables, they wouldnt
have offered an insurance policy. So, RSA declined the claim, voided the policy (treated it as
if it never existed) and returned the premiums Mr and Mrs O had paid for the policy.
Mr and Mrs O were unhappy with RSAs decision and approached this service.
Two cases were set up with this service. One case for the claim decision and voidance, and
separately later, one case for the sale of the policy. Ultimately neither complaint was upheld
by either of the investigators.
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree overall and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision, as I wanted to give both parties an opportunity comment on 
my provisional findings before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We previously had two separate complaints set up. One for the claim decision and 
policy voidance, and one for the sale of the policy. I wrote to both Mr and Mrs O and 
RSA recently. I explained I intended to look at the claim and voidance, and sale, as 
one case as RSA was responsible for both.
Having now done so, Im issuing a provisional decision. This is because I wanted to 
give both parties an opportunity to comment on my provisional findings before I reach 
my final decision.
The theft and the policy limits
A number of jewellery items were stolen when Mr and Mrs O were unfortunately 
burgled, along with several handbags and some lower value items.
Mr and Mrs Os insurance policy had a total limit of £75,000 for contents, and within 
that total, a £20,000 inner limit for valuables. The policy terms defined valuables as:
Valuables
This means jewellery (including costume jewellery), articles of or containing 
gold, silver or other precious metals, cameras (which include video cameras, 
camcorders and digital cameras), binoculars, watches, furs, paintings and 
other works of art, collections of stamps, coins and medals.
RSA appointed their jewellery experts during the claim. They concluded that the total 
amount of jewellery stolen (including watches) was in excess of £40,000. They also 
valued the remaining jewellery and watches that werent stolen at approximately 
£22,000.
Therefore, based on RSAs experts calculations, Mr and Mrs Os total valuables 
were in excess of £60,000 and significantly above the £20,000 valuable limit on their 
policy. And this was relatively close to the total sum insured of £75,000 just for 
valuables. Mr and Mrs O also needed to specify individually any item which had a 
value of more than £3,000, only one ring was listed, some jewellery wasnt listed, and 
some expensive handbags werent individually specified either.
It was concluded by RSA that the total value at risk, including valuables and general
contents, was above £100,000. Therefore, significantly exceeding both the valuable 
limit of £20,000 and total sum insured (including valuables) limit of £75,000.
Based on this, it does appear that the policy limits werent sufficient to cover all the 
contents and valuables Mr and Mrs O had at the time of taking out the policy or the 
theft.
The sale of the policy and the actions RSA have taken since
Mr and Mrs O have said that when taking out the policy, they knew the jewellery was
valuable, but didnt think it would be more than the policy valuables limit of £20,000. 
And it wasnt until they were in a claim position that they discovered their valuables 
were worth a considerably higher amount than they thought.
Mr and Mrs O also say that they werent made aware during the sale of the policy 
what the repercussions would be if they didnt have sufficient cover or policy limits. 
Instead they say they were under the impression that if there was any loss above the 
limits, they wouldnt be covered for that and it would be their own loss, as the 
maximum they could claim would be the limits in the policy.RSA have declined the claim, voided the policy and returned the premiums paid. 
They say Mr and Mrs O didnt provide a reasonable estimate of the total valuables 
when taking out their policy, and the amounts significantly exceeded the policy limits. 
RSA say they wouldnt have offered a policy if they had known how much the total 
valuables and contents were worth when the policy was taken out.
When considering whether RSA has acted fairly, Ive looked at the questions they 
asked during the sale. Ive also looked at whether RSA made clear the importance of 
answering the questions. And, whether the later action RSA took in declining the 
claim, voiding the policy and returning the premiums was fair and reasonable.
Ive seen the online sales journey from when Mr and Mrs O took out their policy. 
They were asked:
How much will it cost to replace all of the contents in your home as new?
When deciding the replacement cost of your contents, dont include any items 
you want to insure away from home. You can tell us about it under personal 
possessions later.
If you only want to insure your items in the home, please include everything 
when calculating the total replacement cost of your contents.
It then gave three choices:
Up to £50,000
Up to £75,000
More than £75,000
Mr and Mrs O thought up to £75,000 was sufficient and chose that option. The online
process then went on to ask about valuables (which outlined what would be classed 
as a valuable) within the home. A maximum amount of £20,000 could be chosen in 
line with the three different levels of policy cover RSA had available at that time. The 
question asked was:
How much would it cost to replace all of the items above that you own as 
new, that never leave your home?
It then asked about cover away from the home more generally  personal 
possessions  but Mr and Mrs O didnt take this cover. And the online journey also 
asked about any single item valued at more than £3,000. Mr and Mrs O specified a 
£7,000 ring. However, there were also other items of jewellery and handbags worth 
in excess of this amount which werent individually specified.
Prior to being able to make payment for the policy, the following warning was 
highlighted, and Mr and Mrs O needed to agree they had understood it:
I confirm my answers are true and complete and I have disclosed all the 
facts in relation to the questions asked. I understand that providing inaccurate 
answer may affect the premium I pay and the claims you pay. It could result in 
you reducing or not making my claim payment or cancelling my policy and 
you may not refund my premium.I think the questions asked by RSA during the sale were clear and explained what 
would need to be taken into account when selecting the sums insured for contents, 
valuables, and single items above £3,000. The warning also outlined the possible 
repercussions of information not being accurate.
Its clear that £75,000 total, and of this, £20,000 valuables, wasnt sufficient to cover 
all the items Mr and Mrs O had.
After Mr and Mrs O were burgled, they put together a loss list for the valuables which 
based just on the stolen items  not including the £7,000 ring, or valuables which 
remained in the home  came to around £24,000. And whilst this was less than the 
total amount calculated by RSAs jewellery specialist, it was still well above the total 
amount they had cover for even before taking into account those items not stolen  
or the £7,000 ring.
The questions asked Mr and Mrs O the value as new, and they were able to estimate 
an approximate value well in excess of the limit five months after taking out the 
policy. So I dont think RSA has acted unfairly be saying Mr and Mrs O didnt provide 
a reasonable estimate when taking out the policy and selecting the appropriate sums 
insured  which was clearly outlined by RSA that it needed to cover all the items they 
had.
RSA also says that Mr and Mrs O were provided policy documents after the sale, 
which showed they hadnt selected enough cover for the full amount of contents or 
valuables they owned.
Ive seen a copy of the policy documents. They outlined Mr and Mrs O had Contents 
cover and a Sum insured Up to £75,000 and this was The cost to replace your 
contents and any high-risk items as new.
So, I think this was clear in what the £75,000 was to cover, and how it should be 
calculated.
The documents then went on to say Valuables (includes any specified items)  Up to
£20,000 as the sum insured. Indicating £13,000 of valuables plus the £7,000 ring 
would need to be considered within that total amount. And separately, a single item 
limit of £3,000. The documents then went on to say:
Let us know if the cost to replace your valuables or single items as new, 
exceeds the limits shown
As I say, Mr and Mrs O were able to estimate the stolen valuables well above the 
policy limit when making the claim not long after the policy was taken out. That 
wasnt even taking into account the items that werent stolen  or the £7,000 ring. So, 
I think they couldve estimated this more accurately at the point of sale, or when they 
received the after-sale documents, but they didnt contact RSA to let them know the 
limit wasnt sufficient and would be exceeded.
The policy documents contained warnings which said:
Please find enclosed your policy documentation. Its important to read 
through everything carefully and check that all the information is correct on 
the Schedule and the cover still meets your needs. Any changes may affect 
your policy, so please contact us as soon as possible.And:
We may re-assess your cover and premiums when we are told about 
changes in your circumstances. If you do not tell us about changes or give us 
incorrect information, the wrong terms may be quoted, we will be entitled to 
reject payment of a claim or a payment could be reduced. In some 
circumstances your policy might be invalid, and you may not be entitled to a 
refund of premium.
The Insurance Product Information Document also outlined:
What are my obligations
You must answer our questions honestly, accurately and provide true and 
complete information, and tell us of any changes in your circumstances that 
may affect your insurance and the cover provided
The full policy terms also included a table titled The most we will pay in respect of 
any one claim is detailed below followed by the £75,000 contents limit and £20,000 
valuables in the home limit.
Based on the questions asked during the sale, and the documents provided after, Im
minded to conclude there were clear questions asked, directions on how to answer 
them, and the answers Mr and Mrs O had already given. I also think the importance 
of correct information being provided, and the potential repercussions of not doing 
so, were sufficiently highlighted.
Mr and Mrs O have said they werent sent documents after the sale, and instead they 
were contained on a portal, which they say they couldnt access. I dont know for 
certain whether they were or werent accessed by Mr and Mrs O.
However, if Mr and Mrs O were able to access them, then the information Ive talked 
about above wouldve been available to view. Or if they were unable to access their 
documents, given they purchased the insurance to cover all the items they own, it 
may have been reasonable to contact RSA to ask for access, or another copy, if they 
were unaware or didnt have any evidence to show anything about the policy theyd 
just bought.
So, given the questions asked during the sale, and the documents available after, Im
minded to conclude RSA has acted fairly by saying Mr and Mrs O didnt provide a
reasonable estimate of the sums to be insured or that they would be within the policy 
limits and those limits would be sufficient for all their items
Did this have an impact on RSA
RSA has said they wouldnt have provided cover if they had known the total amounts. 
Whilst I cant share it with Mr and Mrs O, as it is commercially sensitive, Im satisfied 
RSA has shown they wouldnt have offered cover had the amounts been more 
accurately estimated. This is also reflected in the sales process and the available 
options, and maximum limits available on the policy.
Mr and Mrs O have also said that if theyd known the amounts needed to be higher, 
they couldve picked the higher limits policy i.e. above £75,000 which appears to 
have an unlimited general contents sum insured, and a higher £40,000 valuable limit 
(although that still wouldnt have been sufficient).However, RSA has also demonstrated that policy wouldnt have been available to
Mr and Mrs O. This is because RSA can only offer it to homeowners, and 
Mr and Mrs O were renting. Therefore, this policy wouldnt have been available to 
them had they selected more than £75,000 of contents.
RSA have voided the policy and returned the premiums paid. As they wouldnt have 
offered a policy had they been aware of the true value of valuables and contents 
Mr and Mrs O had, Im not minded to conclude the actions taken by RSA are 
unreasonable. As effectively the policy was never in place as it was voided, and Im 
minded to conclude thats fair, this also means there was no policy in place for 
Mr and Mrs O to claim under. Consequently, Im not minded to conclude RSA has 
acted unreasonably by declining Mr and Mrs Os claim.
Therefore, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint.
The responses to my provisional decision
RSA responded to my provisional decision and said they had nothing further to add.
Mr and Mrs O responded to the provisional decision, but they didnt agree. In summary, they 
said:
The documents didnt highlight the importance of the limits and/or the policy 
being voided
The only question about values is in the first part of the sales journey
The sales journey asks the values, but doesnt explain the concept of 
replacement value  so a consumer is unable to understand this
Its not fair to void the policy if there isnt an explanation or warning
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules say a consumer should be given 
appropriate information to make an informed decision
They had never made an insurance claim in the UK before
They made a rough estimate of the items they owned, which they thought 
were close to, but below, the total limit of £75,000
They believed that regardless of the replacement value they were covered up 
to the limit
They thought the question being asked was what is the total value of the 
contents you want to be insured?
They believe that a separate specific warning should have been given about 
policy voidance in the sums insured part of the sales journey
Their case is similar to a case study on our website
The warning about correct information being provided was at the end of the 
sales process, and that warning was vague and non-specific about what 
would happen and when
They only specified one item (the ring) above £3,000 as they believed the 
other items were worth less
It was unclear that any specified item would need to be deducted from the 
£20,000 valuables limit
The policy documents were only available on the portal and they were unable 
to access it. They dont think RSA fulfilled their obligation to provide the 
documents if they were required to complete actions to receive them  i.e. 
access them via a portal
Even if they had received and checked the documents, there were insufficient 
warningsWhat Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, and 
the responses to it. Having done so, and whilst I recognise itll come as a disappointment to 
Mr and Mrs O, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs O have provided detailed responses to my provisional decision, which Ive 
summarised above. I wont be addressing each point individually, I dont mean this as a 
discourtesy to Mr and Mrs O, rather this reflects the informal nature of our service and my 
role within it. Instead, Ill be addressing the points I believe are key to the outcome and I will 
also group similar points together.
The sales journey
I explained in my provisional decision that I thought the sales journey in relation to selecting 
values, limits and sums insured was clear. This is detailed in full in my provisional decision, 
and the reasons for that were explained, so I wont revisit that in full here. 
Mr and Mrs O dont agree with my view of matters in relation to the sale, but to summarise, I 
think the questions asked were clear in what needed to be taken into account when 
choosing the sum insured, and how to determine this. Ive explained the reasoning, in my 
provisional decision, for my view of this and having considered the responses to my 
provisional decision, Im still satisfied with the outcome I reached on this point.
I do note, in response to my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs O say they believed the 
question being asked was what is the total value of the contents you want to be insured? 
However, I outlined the questions asked during the sale in my provisional decision above, 
and this wasnt one of them. Instead the question was how much it would cost to replace all 
the contents in the home as new.
Mr and Mrs O also disagree that the warnings were sufficient and believe separate warnings 
should have been given specifically about the sums to be insured. However, as I explained 
in my provisional decision, Im satisfied the warning provided prior to purchase was 
sufficient. This explained what could happen if incorrect information was provided.
Whilst Mr and Mrs O think there should have been a separate warning specifically at the 
sums insured point in the sales journey, all the information given was important for the 
insurer. Not just the sums insured. Whilst this is Mr and Mrs Os focus in isolation for the 
claim and complaint here, every answer given would have been relevant to RSA to some 
extent  not just the sums insured. So, I think the overall warning was sufficient, otherwise 
RSA would potentially have to give a similar separate warning on every single question 
individually, and I dont think that would be practical.
I also note Mr and Mrs O dont think the warning is specific enough in explaining the 
repercussions to their specific situation. But, given the warning was in relation to all the 
information provided, it wouldnt be feasible for RSA to outline every possibility of an 
inaccurate answer being given for all the questions asked throughout the sale.
So, whilst I note Mr and Mrs O dont share my view, I believe the warning was sufficient prior 
to purchase.Having thought carefully about the sales process, I think this asked clear questions, 
explained how the sums insured would need to be calculated and also highlighted the 
importance of providing accurate information, along with the repercussions of not doing so. 
And Im satisfied the information presented gave Mr and Mrs O appropriate information to 
make an informed decision.
The amount to be insured
Mr and Mrs O have provided further comments on the sums insured and that they believed 
as a rough estimate this was sufficient when taking out the policy. However, Ive outlined 
above and in my provisional decision that Im satisfied the questions asked during the sale, 
and how this should be calculated, were clear.
As outlined too, after the theft Mr and Mrs O were able to put together a loss list well in 
excess of the policy limit. And Mr and Mrs O have also argued that if there were more 
warnings during the sale, they would have provided a more detailed and accurate 
assessment of values and would have taken a policy elsewhere. So, I dont think RSA has 
acted unfairly by saying Mr and Mrs O didnt provide a reasonable estimate when taking out 
the policy and selecting appropriate sums insured.
The documents
Mr and Mrs O say the obligation is on RSA to provide the documents to them. And they dont 
think RSA has fulfilled their obligation to do so by providing them on a portal  which 
Mr and Mrs O then didnt access. However, Im satisfied RSA has acted fairly by doing so. 
And I cant hold them responsible if Mr and Mrs O didnt access them and didnt follow this 
up with RSA if and when they were unable to.
Mr and Mrs O have also maintained that the documents didnt contain sufficient warnings. 
But I explained in my provisional decision why I believed the documents were sufficiently 
clear, and my view of this remains unchanged. So, Im satisfied the information presented 
both during and after the sale gave Mr and Mrs O appropriate information to make an 
informed decision.
Mr and Mrs O have also said it wasnt clear that the specified item would need to be included 
within the £20,000 valuables limit. However, the documents said the valuables limit and that 
this included any specified items listed below (and the ring was listed). Therefore, I think this 
was clear.
But in any event, Mr and Mrs O didnt review their documents or follow this up with RSA 
when they say they were unable to, so even if there were more warnings, or less warnings, 
or information presented differently, Mr and Mrs O wouldnt have seen it regardless of this. 
Overall, Im satisfied RSA fulfilled its obligations in providing appropriate information to 
enable Mr and Mrs O to make an informed decision.
Case study
Mr and Mrs O have referred to a case study on our website, and say it is similar to their 
situation.
However, each case is considered on its own merits and will turn on its individual 
circumstances. The case study is an example, and based on its own specifics, including 
different questions and circumstances to those in Mr and Mrs Os case.When reaching my final decision here, Ive considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Os case. 
Im satisfied that RSA wouldnt have offered cover had the amounts been more accurately 
estimated, and this is reflected by the policies and limits available. So, on this basis, I dont 
think RSA has acted unfairly or unreasonably by voiding the policy, returning the premiums 
and declining Mr and Mrs Os claim.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman