DRN-2116661
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with how Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) have 
administered her current account. She says it didnt respect her contact preferences and 
provided poor service.
What happened
Miss S holds a current account with Virgin. She said shes written to Virgin on many 
occasions to explain her communication preferences. Specifically, that shed only like to 
correspond by post.
 
Despite this, on 12 February 2020, Virgin telephoned Miss S about another matter. It didnt 
speak with her directly. Instead Miss Ss brother answered the call.
 
Miss S thinks Virgin didnt take note of her contact preferences, which shows a poor level of 
customer service. Miss S wrote to Virgin on the same day to complain. In her letter she said 
the call was unsolicited; and it caused her and her family significant alarm, distress and 
inconvenience. Miss S also said she felt Virgins representative was pressuring her brother 
to force her to speak on the phone. In her complaint letter Miss S referenced General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR) rules and she said she felt her rights had been breached.
 
Virgin replied to Miss S by post on 18 February 2020. In its letter Virgin apologised for 
having called. It said feedback had been given so that Miss Ss contact preferences were 
checked in future. Virgin also explained that, sometimes, it may still need to call for security 
or transaction verification reasons.
Miss S remained unhappy, so she referred her complaint to our service. An investigator here 
looked into what happened. She thought Virgin had dealt with the complaint fairly. She said 
that while Virgin shouldnt have telephoned Miss S, it had apologised and ensured her 
contact preferences were up to date. She pointed out Virgin may still need to contact Miss S 
by telephone, and that if Miss S was concerned about a possible breach of GDPR rules, she 
should contact the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). The investigator also noted 
Miss S had asked for a recording of the call, but Virgin had said it wasnt available.
 
Miss S remained unhappy. She said shed written several letters regarding her contact 
preferences. She also disagreed that Virgin may need to telephone her.
 
The investigator reconsidered. She agreed Miss S had made her preferences clear on 
several occasions. So she thought Virgin should pay £50 compensation to acknowledge the 
distress and inconvenience their call caused. Virgin agreed to offer £50. It also said it had 
found a copy of the call, which it provided.
 
The investigator wrote to Miss S to say she thought Virgins offer was fair. She also said 
shed listened to the call recording, and she was satisfied the representative hadnt been 
rude and that no malice was intended.
 
But Miss S still disagreed. She said she thought malice was intended because her 
preferences had been ignored, and she didnt think £50 was enough compensation. Miss S 
said she believed £75 to be an appropriate amount.
 
The investigator passed Miss Ss comments on to Virgin and it increased its offer to £75. 
The investigator passed this offer to Miss S, along with a copy of the call recording. 
Miss S replied shortly afterwards to say shed listened to the recording, and no longer felt 
£75 was appropriate. She was unhappy with how Virgins advisor had spoken to her brother, 
this had caused her further distress, so the compensation amount should be increased 
further to £100.
 
The investigator didnt change her mind. She said £75 was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. She didnt think Virgins advisor had been discourteous or that Miss S 
suffered any further distress. 
Miss S still disagreed, and she asked for an ombudsmans decision. So the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Miss S at the outset that I note her strength of feeling in this case. From 
what Ive seen, its clear Miss S told Virgin she only wanted to correspond by post. Yet 
despite making her preferences known, she still received an unwanted telephone call. So I 
dont think its in dispute that something went wrong. Ive thought about the impact that 
receiving the call had on Miss S, and Ive been provided with a recording which Ive listened 
to.
  
Miss S previously told the investigator she thought £75 was a fair amount of compensation 
for the distress shed experienced. However, after shed listened to the call, she said the 
representative was rude and abrasive towards her brother who had answered the phone. 
Miss S said this caused her additional distress, so shed like a further £25 compensation. 
But, from what I heard, I dont think the representative was rude or abrasive. Rather, they 
apologised for calling and said they would instead contact Miss S in writing. Taking this into 
account, as well as keeping in mind that Miss S wasnt directly involved in the conversation, 
Im not persuaded that the conversation added any further distress. So I dont think it would 
be fair to tell Virgin to increase its offer and Im satisfied £75 is enough to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience experienced by Miss S.
 
In its final response Virgin said it may need to telephone Miss S if it needs to speak with her 
about security issues. But Miss S doesnt think it should call her at all. I would expect Virgin 
to abide by Miss Ss communication preferences where possible, given how clear shes been 
about not wanting to receive calls. Its important to remember, though, that this is a 
preference which Miss S has specified. Its possible that some security issues, for example, 
could be resolved by letter. But its also possible that some issues could be time-sensitive, 
and that could be legitimate reason to set Miss Ss preference aside. On that basis, I dont 
think its unreasonable for Virgin to say it might need to call Miss S if the matter is essential.
 
Miss S has mentioned that shes unsure why Virgin called her brothers mobile phone when 
it tried to speak with her. Ive seen that Virgin holds two contact numbers for Miss S; one 
landline and one mobile. And I think its likely that these numbers would have been provided by Miss S some time in the past, so she should contact Virgin to update them if they are 
incorrect. 
 
Miss S has also said she thinks her GDPR rights have been breached. I should explain that 
its not for this service to enforce data protection laws. Thats for the ICO to do. Ive seen that 
the investigator has previously provided Miss S with the ICOs contact information. So she 
can contact the ICO directly if she wishes.
My final decision
Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) has already made an offer to pay Miss S £75 
to settle the complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
 
So my final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) should pay £75.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman