DRN-2699756
The complaint
Ms O has complained about the way The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS), trading as 
National Westminster bank, compensated her for the mis-sale of a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2020, Ms O complained to RBS about a PPI policy shed been sold with a mortgage. In 
July 2020 RBS wrote to Ms O saying that it accepted that the PPI policy had been mis-sold 
and offered £1,439.10 in compensation for this mis-sale. But because RBS was aware that 
Ms O had previously been in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) it didnt pay this 
compensation directly to Ms O at that time. Instead, RBS made Ms O aware that it had 
contacted the Insolvency Practitioner (IP) to find out whether the IP retained an interest in 
this compensation settlement. 
In September 2020, the IP responded to RBS saying that, although the IVA had been 
discharged in March 2020, a Post IVA Trust remained in place and, because of this, it 
retained an interest in the PPI redress that RBS had offered to Ms O. 
Ms O wasnt happy that RBS hadnt agreed to pay the compensation directly to her and 
complained to this service. She didnt think she still owed any money to RBS in relation to 
her mortgage and that, as shed previously been discharged from her IVA, the compensation 
should be paid to her.
Our adjudicator didnt think that RBS had done anything wrong in not paying the 
compensation it had offered in relation to this PPI mis-sale directly to Ms O. She thought that 
it was fair for RBS to deduct any amounts still outstanding on Ms Os mortgage from the 
offer it had made to her and for any surplus funds to be paid to the IP. And in March 2021, 
RBS brought its calculation of the amount payable in compensation for the mis-sale up to 
date and sent a payment by cheque to the IP for £1,481.37.
Ms O didnt agree with the adjudicators view, she still though the offer should have been 
paid directly to her, so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS has upheld Ms Os mis-sale complaint. This means that in this decision I wont be 
looking at how the policy came to be sold. It also doesnt appear as if Ms O is complaining 
about how the compensation figure was calculated by RBS. So I havent looked at this 
calculation in detail either. In this decision I will only be considering whether RBS should 
have paid the compensation it offered to settle Ms Os complaint directly to her.
Ive seen a copy of the offer letter that RBS sent to Ms O in July 2020. In this letter RBS 
included the following words:
If you are, or have been, subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA), Protected 
Trust Deed, Bankruptcy or Sequestration, any payment we make will be made to the 
relevant account. Any disbursements due to you under the terms of the arrangement will 
then be managed by the Banks Insolvency Team.
Please note that if you are in a live insolvency, i.e. IVA, Bankruptcy, Sequestration or Trust 
Deed, only your insolvency practitioner/ trustee is able to accept the offer. If you sign and 
return the attached acceptance it will be deemed as invalid. Please can you ensure that you 
provide a copy of this letter to your insolvency practitioner.
So I think RBS made it clear to Ms O when making its offer of compensation to her that if 
she was, or had been, subject to an IVA, this might affect how and to whom the 
compensation was paid. And as RBS was aware that Ms O had entered into an IVA, I think it 
acted reasonably in contacting the IP responsible for overseeing this arrangement to 
determine whether the IP still had any interest in the compensation payment which it was 
now offering Ms O.
I can understand why Ms O might feel that, once the IVA she entered had finished and with 
nothing outstanding on her RBS mortgage, she didnt still owe anything anymore. But the 
outstanding debts unpaid on conclusion of her IVA continued to exist and didnt simply 
disappear - even if her creditors werent any longer able to pursue her for their repayment. 
And in this case, the IP confirmed to RBS that, although the IVA had been completed, there 
remained a Post-IVA Trust in place, which meant that it continued to have an interest in the 
proposed compensation settlement.
So, given what RBS was told by the IP about having a continuing interest in Ms O's 
compensation offer, I dont think RBS did anything wrong in paying this offer to the IP, rather 
than making this payment directly to Ms O.
If, however, Ms O thinks the IP was wrong in telling RBS that it still had a legitimate interest 
in the compensation settlement, or that the IP has subsequently withheld from her some part 
of this payment which she thinks she is entitled to receive, then she should complain to the 
IP about this in the first instance.
Finally, Ive thought about the way RBS has handled Ms Os mis-sale complaint. RBS has 
acknowledged that it made some errors during this process. And I think that these are likely 
to have caused some delays and led to Ms O making a number of calls chasing RBS for 
answers, some of which might reasonably have been avoided if these errors hadnt 
occurred. So I think that Ms O has suffered some unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
as a result for which RBS should pay her £50 in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. But Im directing The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay 
Ms O £50 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her by the way it handled her 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman