DRN-3776533
The complaint
Mr T complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited is recording information incorrectly on his 
credit file.
What happened
Mr T entered into a conditional sale agreement in 2015 to acquire a car. He voluntarily 
terminated his agreement in 2017 and this left an outstanding amount due. Mr T hasnt made 
any payments towards the outstanding amount. Mr T says the account is recorded as U on 
his credit file whereas he believes it should be recorded as settled or defaulted (back dated 
to 2017). He is concerned that recording as U will mean the account stays on his credit file 
indefinitely rather than being removed after six years.
Moneybarn says the account is recorded correctly with the credit reference agencies. It said 
the U marker was neither positive nor negative and was the marker used when a customer 
voluntarily terminates their agreement. It said as Mr Ts account was neither settled nor had 
it defaulted and so it wouldnt be recorded as such. It said that the account was continuing to 
be recorded as the balance remained outstanding. Moneybarn said the six-year timeframe 
was from the end of the agreement and as Mr Ts agreement hadnt been settled or ended 
the timeframe hadnt started.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He noted that Mr Ts account was in arrears at the 
time he exercised his right to voluntary termination. He noted the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance about when a default will be registered. Because of 
this he thought it would have been reasonable for Mr Ts account to have been defaulted in 
March 2017 and recommended Mr Ts credit file be amended to reflect this.
Moneybarn didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that after the agreement was 
voluntarily terminated in 2017 there was no longer an active agreement with contractual 
payments due and so it wasnt able to report missed payments. It said it was its decision 
when to issue default notices and in this case this hadnt happened. Moneybarn said it could 
start the default process, but this would result in the default being in place for six years.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr T voluntarily terminated his conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in 2017. 
After this point there was no active agreement under which monthly payments were 
due but there was an outstanding balance. Mr T was sent default sum letters in 
March and April 2017 and the system notes recorded a default notice in February 
2017 at the time of the voluntary termination. However, I couldnt see that default 
proceedings were instigated at that time.
Moneybarn was required to report accurate information to the credit reference 
agencies. The credit report information provided showed that Moneybarn was 
reporting the outstanding balance on Mr Ts account and a marker of U or US 
(unclassified) to the credit reference agencies. Mr T hadnt made any payments 
towards his outstanding balance since February 2017. Had he done so these would 
have been seen in the outstanding balance amount. Therefore, I couldnt say that 
Moneybarn was reporting incorrect information by showing the balance still 
outstanding.
Mr Ts complaint was about the U or US marker being applied rather than the 
account being defaulted in or around 2017. I did not find that Moneybarn did anything 
wrong by applying the U / US marker in 2017. Mr T took action to end his 
agreement and it wouldnt have been fair to have started default proceedings at that 
time. Moneybarn applied the U / US marker and has explained that was its usual 
approach. Taking this into account and as the marker is seen as neither positive nor 
negative, I thought this was a fair approach at the time.
The outstanding point was whether Moneybarn should have continued to apply the 
U / US marker or there was a point at which, due to Mr Ts non- payment, default 
proceedings should have started. The ICO guidance says that defaults maybe 
registered when an account is in arrears for three months or more and would expect 
the account to be in default by the time it is six months in arrears. I agreed that 
Moneybarn wasnt required to default an account in arrears and that the decision to 
default would take into consideration other factors.
Mr Ts agreement was voluntarily terminated. From this point monthly contractual 
repayments werent due and so I understood that Moneybarn would take a different 
approach to its reporting of the outstanding balance. Since the termination there 
hadnt been a trigger which I would say meant default proceedings were required to 
happen and I noted that in March 2021, Mr T offered a settlement amount. This 
showed that there was still an ongoing relationship and while the settlement amount 
wasnt agreed, the offer made suggested that Mr T was able to make a payment 
towards this agreement although he chose not to.
On balance, I didnt think Moneybarns reporting was either incorrect or inaccurate.
I considered whether the approach taken was fair and reasonable. I noted Mr Ts 
comments about the reporting not stopping after six years but I also noted that he 
didnt raise this concern in 2017 or around that time and that he had benefited from 
the reporting on his credit file being a U or US rather than a default being applied or 
arrears being reported. Moneybarn said that this was how it usually reported these 
situations. Therefore, I didnt think I could say that Mr T has been treated unfairly and 
instead I thought he has benefited from not having the default applied previously.
Overall, I accepted this was an unusual case due to the extended period of non-
payment, but I didnt find I could say that the reporting was incorrect or inaccurate nor 
that Mr T had been treated unfairly. Because of this I didnt uphold this complaint.
Moneybarn accepted my provisional decision. Mr T didnt agree. He didnt think it fair that the 
debt should remain on his credit file for more than six years and potentially indefinitely. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties responded to my provisional decision, I am now able to issue my final decision. I appreciate the concerns that Mr T has raised both about his debt and a precedent 
being set. I treat each case based on its individual merits and my decision is based on my 
assessment of the unique circumstances of the complaint.
In this case, as I set out in my provisional decision, I do not find that Moneybarn was wrong 
to report Mr Ts account with the credit reference agencies as it did. I understand his 
concerns about the time the account will remain on his credit file, but I also note that the 
reporting is neither positive or negative. Also, as I have said previously, Mr T benefitted from 
his account not being defaulted in 2017 and so while I do appreciate his concerns, in this 
case I do not find I can say Moneybarn has done anything wrong or that Mr T has been 
treated unfairly. Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman