DRN-4394266
Complaint
Ms S has complained about a personal loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 
Money) provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable and was therefore 
irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
118 118 Money provided Ms S with a loan for £5,000.00 in May 2021. This loan had an APR 
of 35.9% and a term of 60 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£9,826.80, including interest, fees and charges of £4,826.80, was due to be repaid in 60 
monthly instalments of £163.78. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Ms S complaint and that thought that it didnt do anything 
wrong when providing Ms S with her loan. So she didnt recommend that Ms S complaint be 
upheld. 
Ms S disagreed with our adjudicators assessment. So the case was passed to an 
ombudsman as per the next step of our dispute resolution process. 
My provisional decision of 25 September 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 25 September 2023 - setting out why I intended to 
uphold Ms S complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me 
provisionally decide Ms S complaint. 
118 118 Money needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is that 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr L could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I considered what 118 118 Money had done in light of this.
Having done so, I noted that the credit search carried out appeared to show that Ms S had 
had difficulties with credit. She had a number of previous defaults and as I understood it had 
not long been out of a Debt Relief Order (DRO). 
The credit search information appeared to indicate that Ms S had been subject to some kind 
of insolvency event, albeit this had been discharged. Bearing this in mind as well as the 
amount advanced and the fact that 118 118 Money was providing a loan over a five-year 
term, I was satisfied that 118 118 Money needed to find out more about Ms S actual 
monthly expenditure before concluding that the payments to this loan were affordable for 
her.
Ms S had provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she applied 
for her loan. I did accept different checks might show different things. And just because 
something showed up in the information Ms S had provided, it didnt necessarily mean it 
would have shown up in any checks 118 118 Money might have carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from 118 118 Money showing what this information 
would have shown, I thought that it was perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place 
considerable weight on what this information said as an indication of what Ms S financial 
circumstances were more likely than not to have been at the time. 
I thought that it was also important to note that 118 118 Money was required to establish 
whether Ms S could sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan 
payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan 
payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis might have been an 
indication that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. 
But it didnt automatically follow that this was the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to 
borrow further in order to make their payments, I thought that it followed that a lender should 
realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower would not be able to 
sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they were unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further. 
I considered the available information in this context.
The information provided showed that Miss S was struggling to manage her finances and 
was even borrowing from family. Given what I saw, it was apparent to me that Ms S was 
unlikely to have been able to repay this loan without borrowing further or experiencing 
financial difficulty. 
As this was the case, I did think that Ms S existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the repayments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than 
not have shown 118 118 Money that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Ms S. 
As 118 118 Money provided Ms S with this loan, notwithstanding this, I was minded to 
conclude that it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. And I explained that it was my 
intention to uphold this complaint. 
I thought that Ms S ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have 
been provided with. So I concluded by setting out that it was my intention to issue a final 
decision which finds that Ms S lost out because of what 118 118 Money did wrong and a 
direction on how 118 118 Money should put things right for Ms S.
Responses to my provisional decisionMs S didnt respond to my provisional decision and or provide anything further to me to 
consider.
118 118 Money confirmed that it didnt have anything further for me to consider and said that 
it would await my final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Ms S complaint in my provisional decision 
of 25 September 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further by the parties to 
consider, Ive not been persuaded to depart from those conclusions. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im still upholding Ms S complaint and I 
remain satisfied that 118 118 Money needs to put things right.
 
Fair compensation  what 118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Ms S
Having thought about everything, Im currently minded to conclude that 118 118 Money 
should put things right for Ms S by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Ms S made, whether to 118 118 Money or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £5,000.00 originally lent. If 
Ms S has already repaid more than £5,000.00 then 118 118 Money should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Ms S;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Ms S to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information 118 118 Money recorded about this loan should be removed from Ms S 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
Id also remind 118 118 Money of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due 
consideration if it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should it own an outstanding 
debt, after all adjustments have been made to the account and its the case that Ms S is 
experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 25 September 2023, 
Im upholding Ms S complaint. Madison CF UK Limited should put things right in the way 
Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman