DRN-2162611
The complaint
Mr R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) closed his credit card 
account and reported a default to credit reference agencies. He says what happened is a 
result of NatWest unfairly taking recovery action against him in relation to two personal loan 
accounts.
What happened
Mr R held a current account, a savings account, two personal loan accounts and a credit 
card account with NatWest. In March 2019 his current and savings accounts were closed 
and the balances off-set against the two loan accounts. NatWest took this action because 
the loan accounts were in arrears.
Mr Rs complaint about what happened with his loan accounts, current and savings accounts 
has been addressed separately to this complaint. NatWest have agreed the loan accounts 
were in arrears only because of their error. So, the recovery action and account closures 
shouldnt have happened.
This decision relates only to what happened with Mr Rs credit card account.
Mr R had had his NatWest credit card since 2015 and continued to use his credit card and 
make payments towards the balance after the closure of his other accounts in March 2019. 
He used it for transactions up until 15 April 2019. His last payment towards the credit card 
was in June 2019.
When subsequent payments were missed, NatWest tried to contact Mr R by phone and 
letter. But as they didnt hear back from him, they; terminated the account, recorded a formal 
default on 8 October 2019, and passed the debt over to a third-party debt collector in 
December 2019. The balance on his credit card at that point was £4,312.20. Mr R had 
incurred over limit fees since at least January 2019.
When Mr R complained about the termination of his credit card, he told NatWest he was 
under the impression that all his NatWest accounts, including his credit card account, had 
been on hold since March 2019. He thought they were on hold pending the investigation of 
his complaint about the recovery action taken in relation to the personal loan accounts.
NatWest didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. They said theyd sent him a default notice on 
12 August 2019, a termination letter on 3 September, and a further letter on 19 September 
warning that the account would be passed to a third-party debt collector. They accepted that 
hed lost access to view electronic credit card statements when his online access was 
removed in March 2019, but said he was still aware there was an outstanding balance and 
could have requested a switch to paper statements. They also said what had happened in 
relation to his personal loan accounts would not have affected the credit card account.
Mr R said the impact of this default on his credit score had been significant. He said his 
landlord had hesitated before offering him a new tenancy agreement, and the cost of paying 
for his car insurance had increased.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. He said Mr R had missed numerous 
payments towards his credit card, and that he hadnt responded to any of NatWests 
attempts to contact him. He acknowledged that Mr R was now using a telephone number 
different to the one hed given when he applied for the card; the one NatWests credit card 
team had been using to make contact. But he was satisfied NatWest had written several 
times to the address Mr R had given them when he opened the account.
He said Mr R ought to have known his credit card account had an outstanding balance even 
if he couldnt access his online statements. He didnt think it was reasonable for Mr R to think 
he didnt have to make payments towards his credit card because of what had happened 
regarding his current and personal loan accounts.
He concluded that NatWest had acted fairly in applying the default and passing Mr Rs debt 
to a debt collector.
Mr R said he understood the investigators view and was fully aware of the consequences of 
not paying a credit card debt. But he said hed been told by NatWest that no action would be 
taken pending our investigation of his other complaint, and he thought this applied to his 
NatWest credit card account too. He said if hed received any form of communication from 
NatWest suggesting that they were intending to default his credit card account hed have 
acted because he was in stable employment and had the means to clear the amount owed. 
He said, there would have been no need to default the credit card if my banking facilities 
had not been revoked by NatWest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator did and for broadly 
the same reasons  I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
I appreciate that NatWest made an error in relation to Mr Rs loan accounts, which Ive dealt 
with in a separate decision. But what happened in relation to the loan accounts was a 
separate matter to Mr Rs credit card account. The closure of Mr Rs current and savings 
accounts didnt release Mr R from his obligation to make repayments towards his credit card 
debt, and Ive seen nothing to suggest it was reasonable for Mr R to believe that it did.
Mr R has said that when he first discovered his current account had been closed and 
contacted NatWest, he was told that all his accounts with NatWest were on hold. But having 
listened to a recording of that conversation (from 6 March 2019) I think Mr Rs recollection of 
that call is inaccurate. I accept that staff referred to all his accounts being closed and 
advised him to seek banking elsewhere, but in the context of the rest of the conversation I 
think it was made sufficiently clear that it was his current and savings accounts which had 
been closed. Part of the conversation involved discussing how the balances of those 
accounts had been set-off against the loan balances.
I dont think the staff he spoke to during that call said anything to suggest he didnt need to 
pay his credit card. Indeed, Mr Rs continued use of the credit card in March and April 2019 
and his repayment towards the card in June 2019 suggest that he was aware that the credit 
card account wasnt on hold or closed.As Mr R should have continued to pay his credit card, I think it was reasonable for NatWest 
to begin recovery action when hed missed several payments.
NatWest have shown that they wrote to Mr R many times between June and October 2019. 
These letters advised him his account was over the limit and in arrears. They also 
encouraged Mr R to get in touch about his account and explained what would happen, 
including referral to a third-party debt collector and the impact on his credit file, if he didnt 
repay the balance or agree a plan to repay.
Mr R has said that he didnt receive these letters, but Im satisfied that NatWest sent them. 
I note that there was a slight difference in the address on these letters compared with the 
letters NatWest sent him relating to his current and personal loan accounts. But the address 
they used for the credit card account was the address Mr R provided on his application, and 
Ive seen that he successfully received other letters which were addressed the same way.
With regard to Mr R losing access to his online banking in March 2019, and with it the ability 
to check his account balance and statements, I dont think this is reason to reach a different 
outcome. Although I think NatWest could have done more to ensure he continued to get 
regular credit card statements after online access was removed, I cant say that Mr R didnt 
know he had a credit card debt exceeding his limit or that he was in arrears. He would have 
been aware of the size of his debt in February/March 2019 and even without access to 
online statements would have known he wasnt making payments to reduce it after June 
2019.
Overall, I think NatWest acted fairly and reasonably by taking recovery action for unpaid 
credit card debt and registering the corresponding default with credit reference agencies.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman