DRN-3920806
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) stopped his overdraft 
reducing repayment plan during the pandemic in October 2020 and refused to continue the 
arrangement. Mr R is also unhappy with the service received regarding this.
What happened
Mr R had a number of overdraft reducing payment plans with Nationwide over a year. From 
October 2016 Nationwide ceased applying overdraft charges. The last plan Mr R had was 
agreed in April 2020 and ended on 1 October 2020. Following this plan ending Nationwide 
sent Mr R a letter on 8 October explaining the arrangement had come to an end and 
advising that it had to review his financial situation to come to a new plan. The letter 
explained that if Mr R didnt get in touch the agreed limit on his overdraft would become 
unauthorised and it would update the credit reference agencies with this information.
There was a phone call between a Nationwide consultant and Mr R on 19 October 2020 to 
discuss this, but communications broke down and no plan was agreed.  
As no further arrangement was agreed to repay the overdraft Mr Rs authorised overdraft 
limit was removed. Nationwide wrote to Mr R about this in November, December 2020 and 
January 2021 requesting immediate payment for the outstanding amount of around £630 but 
as no payment was received a default notice was issued on 18 March 2021.  
Mr R complained to Nationwide about not agreeing a further payment plan and the service 
he received by its consultant during the phone call to discuss a further arrangement. 
Nationwide said the questions asked during the phone call were necessary to establish Mr 
Rs circumstances and his eligibility for another plan. It agreed the service could have been 
better but didnt think Mr R had allowed its consultant the opportunity to have another 
arrangement put in place and felt Mr R had been verbally abusive. 
Mr R was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Rs concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong and had treated Mr R fairly and so didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr R disagreed. He says at all times he was in agreement with paying off the overdraft but 
had a change in his employment and other more pressing commitments so he couldnt give 
Nationwide what it was asking for.  
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr R has experienced and see if Nationwide has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr R back in the position he 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr Rs main complaint point is that it was unfair of Nationwide not to continue his overdraft 
repayment plan and start the process of defaulting his account.  So the question I have to 
ask is whether Nationwide did anything wrong in not agreeing a further payment plan with Mr 
R. 
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here, in that I dont think that Nationwide acted unfairly 
when it took the decision to start the process of defaulting Mr Rs account when a further 
arrangement wasnt agreed. 
As has been explained previously to Mr R a lender shouldnt continue ignoring an 
unsustainable debt indefinitely. Indeed, Ive looked at Mr Rs statements and can see that Mr 
Rs account had been overdrawn for a number of years and despite Nationwide supporting 
Mr R by agreeing a number of overdraft reducing plans with it, Mr Rs account remained 
overdrawn since 2016 near the top of his authorised overdraft limit.  
Part of Mr Rs complaint is regarding the service he received during a call in October 2020 
when trying to agree a further plan. Mr R was unhappy about questions he was asked by the 
consultant. Mr R thought the questions asked were patronising around finding work during 
the pandemic. Ive listened to the call and I disagree. I think it was necessary for 
Nationwides consultant to ask the questions she did to fully assess Mr Rs current personal 
and financial circumstances and whether he was in a position whereby Nationwide could 
enter into a further arrangement with him to repay his overdraft. So I dont think Nationwide 
was wrong to ask these questions. And from what I heard the review was unable to be 
completed and call ended due to the language Mr R was using  which I agree was 
unacceptable. 
So as a review wasnt completed and a further plan agreed I dont think it was unfair of 
Nationwide to take the next step and remove Mr Rs overdraft and start the process of 
defaulting his account when he failed to pay back the outstanding balance. Nationwide told 
Mr R what would happen if a further plan wasnt agreed and I dont think it would be fair to 
expect Nationwide to carry on providing interest free credit eternally. 
So overall and having considered everything I dont think Nationwide treated Mr R unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman