DRN-3868575
The complaint
Mr A and Ms T are unhappy with the way The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (NFU) handled their call to register a new claim, leading to incorrect details 
being recorded.
Mr A and Ms T had home insurance with NFU that included cover for legal expenses. As Mr 
A raised the complaint, for ease Ill refer only to him throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr A called NFU to register a new claim under his legal expenses cover. He struggled to 
hear the claims handler because of background noise and chatter, which he believed was 
unrelated to business issues. NFU agreed to call back.
When Mr A received the call, he was still struggling to hear the claims handler due to 
background noise. He said the call was later than the agreed hour deadline and he didnt 
think his claim was being heard properly. Mr A raised a complaint.
NFU didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said the claims handler had offered a return call that 
would be at least an hour or an hour and a half, and they called Mr A after around two hours. 
NFU also listened to the call recordings. While it apologised for any inconvenience it caused 
Mr A, NFU explained that the noise was that made by other call handlers speaking with 
customers. 
Mr A was dissatisfied with NFUs response and brought his complaint to this service. To 
resolve his complaint, he asked for £100 compensation.
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint. He agreed that the noise in the background made 
it difficult for Mr A to get his claim points across, so he proposed that NFU pay £100 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
NFU didnt agree.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2022 explaining that I was intending to not 
uphold Mr As complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
While I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr A, Ive provisionally decided not to 
uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
The issue is about the background noise during Mr As claim call which he said made it 
difficult to get his points across and resulted in the claim being recorded incorrectly. For 
clarity, Im not considering the merits of the claim itself.
Ive listened to the call, which was around 10 minutes long. About halfway through the call 
Mr A said he couldnt hear the claims handler because of people talking over her. 
Immediately prior to his comment, the fire alarm had sounded briefly, followed by some 
background noise in keeping with line interference or other calls. But the background noise 
lasted only a matter of seconds. The call continued and around a minute before Mr A 
terminated the call he said he couldnt hear the claims handler again. The noise was similar 
to that heard previously and was equally short-lived. Mr A instructed the claims handler to 
call him back in an hour. The claims handler said shed call back, but it would be at least an 
hour or hour and a half.
Therefore, I dont find that NFU failed to return the call within an agreed timeframe of one 
hour as Mr A suggested. Im minded not to uphold this part of his complaint.
I then listened to the claims handlers return call to Mr A. There was some noise in the 
background, but it was the same as the first call. There was no clear evidence of background 
chatter which wasnt related to work; rather it sounded like other calls being made. I cant 
agree that it sounded like a party or rave going on in the office, as Mr A suggested.
Although I accept that Mr A may have found any background noise off-putting, I havent 
identified any evidence of a significant or financial impact on Mr A because of it. His claim 
was originally thought to be an extension of one he made three years earlier, but he 
corrected that misunderstanding, so the information taken during the calls regarding his 
claim hasnt caused him any loss.
Overall, the evidence suggests that the background noise was an inconvenience and an 
irritant to Mr A, but I havent identified any loss or distress that would warrant compensation.  
Im minded not to ask NFU to do any more in respect of this matter.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
NFU had nothing further to add. 
Mr A responded to say he strongly disagreed with my provisional decision and the reversal 
of our investigators proposal. He provided further information relating to his disability which 
he considered relevant to his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint for the same reasons as those 
set out in my provisional decision. That said, Ill address Mr As further comments now.
I was made aware of Mr As disability which he thinks is directly relevant to his complaint. 
Ive thought carefully about what he said, but I dont agree that it makes a difference to the 
outcome.
Mr As complaint was about the background noise during his calls with NFU and its failure to 
return his call within the timeframe agreed. As I explained in my provisional decision, the 
evidence doesnt support what he said. NFU returned the call within a reasonable timescale, 
and there was no evidence of party-like noise going on in the background.
It's not clear whether Mr A is saying his disability may have made it harder for him to hear 
the calls, but I cant fairly hold NFU responsible for that, particularly when theres no 
evidence that he made it aware of any need for a reasonable adjustment.While I sympathise with Mr As circumstances, I remain of the view that NFU didnt do 
anything wrong in relation to this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr As 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman