DRN-2497546
The complaint
Mr C complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) recorded incorrect 
information on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE).
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
Around June 2019, Mr C contacted LV to make a claim on his Car Insurance after his car 
was broken into
Mr C said when he spoke to LV the advisor kept twisting what hed said and told him the 
claim wasnt covered. Because of this, Mr C said he gave up trying to make a claim through 
the policy and later claimed through his home insurance provider instead
Mr Cs car insurance policy was due to renew shortly after this and he decided to move to a 
new insurer
Mr C said as the claim has been made through his home insurance, he didnt mention the 
attempt to claim through LV to his new insurer
Mr Cs new insurer cancelled his new policy, as the information provided was different to that 
recorded on the CUE database. He says this has now had an impact on his premiums with 
another new insurer
Mr C raised a complaint with LV, as he felt the policy had been cancelled due to their 
incompetence. As hed made a claim through his home insurance policy, he said LV should 
delete the record on CUE
LV said they recorded Mr Cs claim on the CUE database incorrectly and it should have 
been recorded as a notification. They said they had now corrected it but wouldnt remove the 
notification as they had an obligation to accurately record any incidents or claims reported to 
them. They offered Mr C £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused by the error
Mr C was unhappy with their response, so brought his complaint to our service
Our Investigator didnt recommend we uphold Mr Cs complaint.  He said LV hadnt acted 
unreasonably in recording a notification-only record on CUE. But due to their error in not 
adding the correct details to the database initially, he felt LVs offer of compensation was fair
He also said Mr C would need to refer to his second insurer regarding removing any 
cancellation record from the CUE database as this hadnt been added by LV
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
Further developments
I contacted both parties with my initial thoughts on 27 January 2021. I said I was satisfied 
from what Id seen that LV had amended Mr Cs record to show the claim was notification 
only.
But I also said even if Mr C had declared the notification with his second insurer, a claim had 
been recorded, and not a notification. So the information he wouldve given would still have 
been incorrect. So Mr C would still have the inconvenience of going back to his second 
insurer to explore whether this will make a difference. And, if he is successful in doing so, he 
will then need to present this to his new insurer for consideration as to whether they will 
reduce his premiums
Because of this I thought LV should increase their offer of compensation and pay Mr C £250 
for the inconvenience caused.
LV didnt agree with my initial thoughts. They said it was Mr Cs responsibility to make sure 
the information he gave to a new insurer was correct, so they felt the compensation they had 
offered was reasonable.
Mr C hasnt provided any further comments 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered LVs additional comments, but my final decision and reasoning remain the 
same. Ill explain why.
Insurers have a duty to accurately record a true reflection of any incidents or claims reported 
to them on CUE database. So, I dont think LV acted unreasonably in recording a notification 
 and I can see this is now accurately recorded on the database. 
Mr C will need to refer to his second insurer regarding whether they will amend the 
cancellation marker added to CUE. As this marker wasnt added by LV, I wont be holding 
them responsible for this. 
Mr C did have a duty to declare the correct information when taking out a new policy. But the 
compensation Ive recommended isnt because Mr Cs policy was cancelled, or to cover any 
increase in premiums he says he has incurred. Its for the inconvenience he has been 
caused by LVs mistake.
Even if Mr C had declared the notification to his new insurer, a claim had been recorded in 
error, and not a notification. So the information he wouldve declared would have still been 
incorrect. Mr C now has the inconvenience of having to contact the second insurer to see 
whether this will make a difference, and if successful he will then need to present this to his 
new insurer to consider reducing his premiums.
Putting things right
Taking what Ive said into consideration, I think LV should pay Mr C a total of £250 
compensation as I think it fairly reflects the inconvenience he has been caused  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint.I direct Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr C £250 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman