DRN-4007429
The complaint
Ms G complains that LV Equity Release Limited wrongly applied its legal charge on her land
comprising of two separate residential dwellings, registered under a single title, as security
for a lifetime mortgage. As a result, she encountered difficulties selling one of the dwellings
and had to redeem her mortgage to release LVs charge before property B could be sold.
As a resolution to her complaint Ms G is seeking a refund of the early repayment charge
(ERC) applied by LV on redemption of her mortgage and further compensation to account
for other losses and expenses incurred because of her complaint issue.
What happened
Ms G owned some land that comprised of her main residence (property A) and a separate
detached building (property B). Ms G said that she sought the relevant planning permission
and separated the utilities with the intention of selling property B as a separate dwelling.
However, Ms G says her solicitor advised her that it wasnt possible to legally separate the
title deed with the Land Registry as she didnt have anyone to transfer a new deed for 
property B to. As such the title continued to include both dwellings. Ms G subsequently put 
property B on the market. The estate agents particulars of sale made the situation regarding 
the title clear, and that separation of title would take place on completion of the sale.
Ms G says property B had been on the market for some time before she applied for a lifetime
mortgage with LV in March 2021.
Upon application for the lifetime mortgage, Ms G was advised to borrow £120,000 by her
broker. £100,000 was being used to repay her existing mortgage with a different lender and
Ms G wanted to borrow a further £20,000 for home improvements and emergency funds. LV
approved the mortgage and a charge was subsequently registered against the title.
Ms G says that when property B was approaching completion in October 2021, it became
apparent that LV had taken a charge over both properties as security for the lifetime
mortgage. As such, it wasnt possible to complete on the sale of property B, due to LVs
active charge.
A signed DS3 form would be required from LV to release part of the land. LV said it would
consider signing the form to amend its charge to allow separation of the title and the sale of 
property B, but it needed to follow some internal processes and carry out a new survey 
which would take some time. Concerned that the sale of property B would collapse, Ms G 
says she had no option but to redeem her lifetime mortgage with LV and pay the ERC.
Ms G complained to LV. She thought that through its appointed surveyors and title searches,
LV should have spotted the issue and not taken a charge over both properties.
LV responded to the complaint. It didnt agree that it got things wrong. In summary LV said
that a charge is against the title number and any properties under the title number will be
included in the charge. LV said that this ought to have been raised as a known issue by
Ms G during the application process. Had it been aware the title was linked to dual
properties it would have declined Ms Gs application. As such LV didnt uphold the complaint
and didnt agree to waive the ERC applied to redeem the loan early.
Unhappy with LVs response, Ms G brought her complaint to our service. An investigator
looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that it was
LVs responsibility to ensure full legal requirement to satisfy its lending criteria was met. She
thought LV should refund Ms Gs ERC, compensate her for any associated legal costs along
with a further £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenient caused.
LV disagreed with the investigators opinion and asked for the case to be decided by an 
ombudsman. This matter was then passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional 
decision, and an extract of my provisional findings is below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the submissions from both parties. Ive summarised events here
in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by that - this just echoes the informal service
we were set up to provide. If Ive not mentioned something, its not because Ive ignored it,
its because I dont think its material to the outcome of the complaint.
Before I explain my findings, its worth pointing out the several parties involved in this
mortgage application process. Including LV and its appointed surveyor, Ms Gs broker and
her solicitor  who also act as her representative on this complaint. There has been a degree
of blame passing in relation to whos responsible here. In my decision I will only focus on the
actions of LV as the respondent to this complaint. I make no finding in relation to any of the
third parties involved in the transaction.
When land is registered at HM Land Registry it is allocated its own unique title number.
Upon registration, Land Registry produce a title plan of the land, based on the information
contained in the original title deeds. The plan supports the property description in the title
register and identifies (usually with a red edging) the general extent of the land in the
registered title, together with any buildings on the land at that time.
Once the land is registered, any new events registered with land registry (such as a transfer
of the legal ownership of the property or securing a legal charge over the land) is done so
against the unique title number.
In this case LV was lending against the land as described in the title deed and registered its
charge accordingly on that title.
Ms G has confirmed that she knew of the circumstances relating to the title to an extent and
its clear she was relying on the sale of property B to separate the title. But she knew that the
mortgage with LV would complete before the sale of property B  and therefore property B
was still included in the land offered to LV as security.
As Ms G knew she wanted to separate the land and only offer part of it as security, then it
would have been her responsibility to disclose that information to LV to let it know the extent
of the charge she wished for it to hold. It was her duty to disclose such information and
unless she expressly told LV about the circumstances relating to the title then I would not
expect LV to reasonably be aware of the issue in these circumstances.
Whilst there seems be a lot of weight placed on LVs perceived failings including any
omission to consider the title plans, I consider this to be of little relevance Ill explain why.LV appointed an independent surveyor to physically value the land offered as security for the
mortgage. A mortgage is generally secured over the whole of the land on the registered title
 its not generally possible to secure a mortgage on only part of the land. And this is not
something I would have expected LV to have questioned if it wasnt made aware this was
Ms Gs intention.
The valuation carried out by the appointed surveyor was for LVs benefit only. This means
that the scope was limited and was for the purpose of checking how much the land was
worth to check whether it was good security for the mortgage. This would include the whole
of the land that was part of the registered title, and all buildings on the land. LV was entitled
to rely on the professional opinion of the surveyor who valued the property at a price he
thought fair and considered it suitable security for lending purposes.
The valuation report specifically asks if there are out buildings to which the surveyor
answered yes. He then also goes on to mention other accommodation and a sunroom.
Therefore, when comparing the title plans to the survey report produced, Im not persuaded
that the fact there were two buildings outlined on the plan ought to have caused any concern
for LV. The registered title refers to only property A and there were outbuildings mentioned in
the survey report. So the second building (property B) could relate to any form of outbuilding.
So, even if LV had seen the title plans, I think its unlikely it would have been concerned,
when considering what it knew about the title register and the information on valuation report
combined. As far as LV was concerned, it was being offered the whole of the land registered
under this title as security for the mortgage, and it had no reason to know if that wasnt
Ms Gs intention. I also think it likely that if LV had known of Ms Gs intentions, it wouldnt
have lent until the issue with the title was resolved  either by Ms G confirming she wanted
the whole of the land included in the mortgage, or by the title being split before the mortgage
was lent and the remaining land being sufficient security.
Aside from considering all of the above, Ms G ultimately agreed to LV taking its charge in the
way that it did when she signed the mortgage deed prior to completion. It was clear in the
mortgage deed that LV was taking a charge over the title in question, which Ms G knew
included property B as it hadnt been split off yet onto its own title.
Ms G signed the mortgage deed in the presence of her solicitor. If she was unsure of the
implications of LVs charge over the whole title, she ought to have sought further legal advice
on the matter if shed not already done so already.
Had Ms G raised this with her solicitor, Id expect it to advise her accordingly, by either
making it explicitly clear to LV as to the restriction of its charge and/or as a last resort advise
Ms G not to enter the lifetime mortgage until the property B was sold and the title spilt.
So, in summary I conclude that LV registered its charge in a reasonable way. In the absence
of Ms G making LV aware of the unusual circumstances relating to her particular title, Ive
seen nothing that persuades me that LV ought to have been aware of the issue any sooner.
As such it would be neither fair nor reasonable to hold LV responsible in the circumstances.
When Ms G made LV aware the situation with her title some months later, it was willing to
help her in the circumstances by signing a DS3 form to release part if its charge. LV
managed Ms Gs expectations by explaining that the process for doing so was likely to take
some time and be subject to it being satisfied (following a new valuation) that the remaining
land would be sufficient security for the mortgage.
Due to the nature of the legal implications involved, I dont find it unreasonable that LV had aprocess to follow in the circumstances. So, I wouldnt expect it to sign the form immediately
without considering all the possible implications of doing so first  including conducting a
new valuation. This is because removing part of the land  including one of the buildings 
from the title could reduce the value of the remaining land left on the title. Loan to value is
particularly important for lifetime mortgages, and therefore its reasonable that LV would
want to be satisfied it still had enough security before agreeing to the split title.
Before LV was able to complete its investigation, Ms G decided to redeem her mortgage
sooner. I understand her reasoning for doing so, to not lose the sale on property B. But in
the circumstances because I dont find LV to be entirely responsible for the issues that have
occurred, I cant reasonably ask it to waive the ERC. In line with the terms of Ms Gs
mortgage, LV was entitled to apply an ERC upon early redemption of the mortgage. As such,
I wont be asking LV to refund the ERC applied or any other costs incurred by Ms G in
relation to this matter.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold this complaint against LV Equity
Release Limited. Ill wait two weeks to see if either party has anything further to add before
making my final decision
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. LV had nothing further to add. Ms G 
responded to say that she disagrees with my provisional findings. 
In summary Ms G says that there has been a misunderstanding of each of the parties 
fundamental roles in the transaction and failure to consider third party involvement 
particularly that of LVs legal representative and the surveyor. Ms G reiterated her intention 
to only give legal charge over property A, which she says was made clear during the 
application process. She says neither her nor her solicitor were aware at any stage in the 
process of that not to be the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons. 
I have given careful consideration to Ms Gs response, but I note that neither party has made 
any new arguments, or provided any new evidence, that Ive not already considered when 
reaching my provisional decision. That said, I will however for clarity respond to key points 
raised by Ms G.
Im aware of each parties roles and responsibilities during this transaction and Ive 
considered the actions of LVs instructed surveyor and solicitor when reaching my 
provisional findings. However, what Im unable to make any finding on in this decision is the 
actions of the other third parties involved in the transaction  that being Ms Gs independent 
broker and her own appointed solicitor. In her response, Ms G says she made her intentions 
clear to her broker about only wanting to give LV charge over property A. Ive seen no 
evidence of such information being provided to LV during the application process. Its also 
worth noting that, during a call with our service, Ms G has said the opposite  that there was 
no discussion about the title with her broker. In an event, any complaints about the actions of 
Ms Gs broker, or any other third party for that matter, would need to be made separately.  Ive explained why LV was entitled to rely on the valuation report produced by a qualified 
surveyor. Based on the results of the survey and the information contained in the title, Im 
not persuaded LV would have any concerns about the property not meeting criteria in the 
absence of further disclosure about the unusual circumstances relating to the title  only 
known to Ms G and her solicitor at the time. 
Ms G has pointed out several things LV and the associated parties could have, in hindsight, 
done differently to identify the issue. A key consideration in this case is that there has been a 
failure on Ms Gs part to make adequate disclosure about her intentions, that would 
otherwise be unknown to LV for the reasons Ive explained. This has subsequently resulted 
in her loss and as such it would be neither fair nor reasonable for me to hold LV responsible 
in these circumstances. Id also like to take this opportunity to confirm that from the evidence 
available including listening to the calls between Ms G and LV relating to DS3 process, Ive 
seen nothing to suggest LV refused to sign the form eventually after carrying out the 
necessary investigations. But Ms G chose to redeem the mortgage before LV could look into 
this matter further.
I dont think Ms G intentionally meant to mislead LV. Its clear from listening to several calls 
(including the ones mentioned above relating to the DS3) that Ms G has directly told LV and 
our investigator, that she was fully aware of the circumstances relating to the title, including 
being unable to split the title until property B was sold, due to her circumstances  as 
advised by her solicitor. So, she was relying on the sale of property B for separation of the 
tile. 
This is supported by evidence in the particulars of sale for property B. Its clear that 
information was given to the estate agent for the purpose of marketing property B, so its 
unclear to me why the same information would not subsequently be offered to LV. Ms G has 
during such calls accepted she made a mistake and its clear she was relying on the 
professional parties involved to help identify and advise her on this matter and any 
implications.
As such Im not persuaded by the comment that Ms G could have not known at any point 
throughout the processes that the charge was being applied on the relevant title, which she 
was fully aware included both properties. 
As Ms G has pointed out (as advised by her solicitor) and as mentioned in my provisional 
findings, it is generally not possibly to register a charge on part of a title, so in the absence 
of the title being split, its unclear how Ms G would think anything other than it being the case 
that LV was registering its charge on the whole title as registered with land registry. 
As far as LV was concerned there were no issues relating to how it was applying its charge 
to the title and Ms Gs agreement to LV registering its charge in that way was confirmed 
when she signed the mortgage deed relevant to the said title that she knew included both 
properties.  
As I dont think Ms Gs comments change things, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional conclusions in the circumstances. I remain satisfied that LV has acted fairly in 
respect of Ms Gs lifetime mortgage application, and it would not be fair nor reasonable to 
hold it responsible in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman