DRN-4416722
The complaint
Mrs T has complained about her home insurer Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (LV) about a claim she made when she noticed her kitchen floor felt spongy.
What happened
Mrs T had become concerned about her kitchen floor. She thought there was or had been a 
leak which had caused it to become water damaged. She contacted LV on 25 February 2022 
which then appointed an investigator and subsequently two leak detection teams were 
instructed, although only one attended. It was concluded there was no leak on-going or any 
water damage as covered by the policy in place.
Once LVs leak detection company had left Mrs Ts home on 9 March 2022, Mrs T noticed 
water coming from the area of the dishwasher. She hadnt been happy with the conduct of 
the leak detection company and she felt theyd caused damage (and likely deliberately). LV 
appointed another assessor to view the dishwasher, doing so on 25 March 2022. A split in 
the hose was noticed which was leaking when the dishwasher filled up. It was felt this could 
have been done when the dishwasher was being moved. LV said it would pay £349.99 so 
Mrs T could replace the dishwasher with a like equivalent (the item and price available from 
an on-line retailer). A cheque for this sum was sent to her in May 2022. LV wasnt minded to 
do more, it didnt think this leak had caused any further damage to the floor and it maintained 
the floor had not been damaged by anything covered in the policy. 
Mrs T remained unhappy, about the conduct of many people involved in the claim, she felt 
the pipe had been deliberately damaged and that more damage to her floor had been 
caused. She also still felt it was likely that there had been a leak, perhaps concealed and 
which perhaps had sealed itself, which had damaged her floor. She was also unhappy about 
having to wash up by hand because due to medical conditions, this is a struggle and painful 
for her. Mrs T complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our Investigator noted LVs offer to pay for a replacement dishwasher. But noted that the 
on-line retailer would charge for delivery, installation and recycling, on top of the sum LV had 
sent to Mrs T for the dishwasher itself. She felt LV should pay these charges and £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
LV agreed. Mrs T said she was unhappy with the findings. She noted a connector pipe on 
the dishwasher was also damaged  identified when the replacement dishwasher (which 
cost more than the sum allowed for by LV) was being installed. Our Investigator noted that if 
this was not replaced as part of the installation, it would only cost around £10. So she wasnt 
minded to make LV pay anything more. In the meantime, Mrs T had shared evidence of the 
damaged connector pipe with LV. LVs view, confirmed to Mrs T, on 27 March 2023, was 
that this had likely been damaged all along, but missed during its leak detection 
investigations. It said it accepted this had been causing long-term damage to the floor which 
it would accept a water leak claim for under the policy. It said, with this having gone on for so 
long, it would pay £300 compensation.
Mrs T remained unhappy overall. She felt LV had put her in a difficult position for many 
months which had likely exacerbated her medical conditions. She felt compensation of at 
least £2,000 to £6,000 was fairly and reasonably due. Her complaint was passed to me for 
an Ombudsmans consideration.
I felt it would make sense to consider what had happened, and the distress Mrs T had been 
caused, up until LV accepted in March 2023 that there was an on-going leak. Our usual 
approach would be to deal with matters up to the final response issued by the business. But 
here the later discovery of the damaged connector caused LV to accept its investigations, 
undertaken prior to it issuing the aforementioned final response letter, were flawed. 
Essentially that it had been wrong, there was a valid claim under the policy. Which is what 
Mrs T had maintained all along. And I felt LVs change of view on the claim also impacted 
the findings our Investigator had made  which were based on the previously available 
evidence. So I felt it made sense to consider what had happened up until March 2023. In 
doing that I felt LV should be paying Mrs T a total of £1,000 compensation (an additional 
£600 where £400 had already been paid). I issued a provisional decision to explain my views 
to both parties. My provisional findings were:
Our Investigators findings
I know Mrs T thinks these were somewhat flawed. My findings will now supersede those, so 
I wont go into her concerns about them in much detail. But I know Mrs T was frustrated that 
our Investigators findings had referred to the problem with the kitchen likely being related to 
damp and also that shed said LV was not covering the damaged flooring. I can understand 
Mrs Ts frustration in this respect  by the time of our Investigators comments, dated 
29 March 2023, LV had accepted there had been an on-going leak, which had caused 
damage to the flooring and which was accepted under the policy. But our Investigator had 
not been appraised of that update at that time. 
The claim and LVs updated position
Mrs T made her claim for water damage to her kitchen flooring in February 2022. I think LV 
responded quite quickly at this time; appointing an investigator who attended within a few 
days of the claim being notified. However, as can be the case with water leak claims, he felt 
it was necessary to appoint a leak detection company. The subsequent report from the leak 
detection company shows it carried out fairly extensive investigations. But no leak was 
found. It was planned for another company to complete further checks  but this was put on 
hold when the problems with the dishwasher arose. 
I appreciate Mrs T felt so many visits were unnecessary. But I can see that the two leak 
detection companies specialised in different areas  the latter focussing on underground 
pipework. So I think LVs initial enquiries, along with its plan for undertaking further 
investigations with the underground pipe team was fair and reasonable. I emphasise that 
I say that based on the situation as it was and regarding what was known at that time. Whilst 
Mrs T was adamant there was something wrong, LV was entitled to rely on the evidence of 
its experts. Which, at that time, pointed to the floor being damaged by something other than 
a water leak, perhaps by rising damp. 
LV though, based on new evidence Mrs T provided, has now accepted that it was wrong in 
this respect. That, actually, its leak detection company, as thorough as it appeared to have 
been, likely missed the damaged connector on the dishwasher. So Mrs T, believing that 
there was an on-going but undiagnosed problem, has been vindicated. Unfortunately, it has 
taken about a year for the flawed nature of the initial investigations to be identified and the 
claim to have been accepted. Which has meant Mrs T has been living in a cold and damp 
kitchen, with spongy flooring all this time. And because this has coincided with Mrs Ts complaint to this service, I can see from her communications how worried shes been about 
her kitchen deteriorating. I also know she felt as though LVs representatives, in telling her 
there wasnt a leak, were talking down to her and this caused her a lot of distress. 
Something she would never have had to experience if the damaged connecter had not been 
missed by the specialists sent in to investigate if there was a leak. Ill take this all into 
account when I look at compensation later in my decision.   
Dishwasher damage
It was 9 March 2022 when LVs leak detection specialists damaged the pipe on Mrs Ts 
dishwasher. LV initially acted quite quickly I think to get the damage assessed  that took 
place on 25 March 2022. But it was then not until mid-May 2022 that LV sent Mrs T a 
cheque to replace the dishwasher. I think that was too long and I dont doubt Mrs T was 
caused distress and inconvenience in the meantime. The price was a little low  by around 
£75.00 as it didnt account for delivery, installation and recycling charges. But I think it did 
reasonably allow Mrs T to replace her dishwasher. I note that she did not do that though for 
another six months. I think LV is responsible for any upset caused to Mrs T in the first two 
months after its specialist caused damage, but not in the six-month period after it had paid 
the replacement cost to Mrs T. Ill take that two-month period of distress and inconvenience 
into account when I look at compensation later in my decision.   
LV paid Mrs T £349.99 for a replacement dishwasher. Following our Investigators view it 
paid a further £75.00 for additional charges (£30.00 delivery, £25.00 installation and £20.00 
recycling). A total of £424.99. Mrs T didnt get her replacement via the on-line retailer LV had 
taken its pricing from  but she did buy the same model. Her invoice is for £424.00; detailing 
the cost of the machine as £379.00, £25.00 for installation, £25.00 for recycling and £0 for 
delivery. I havent seen that Mrs T incurred any other charges. Im satisfied that LV has fairly 
paid Mrs T to cover her costs incurred due to its specialist damaging her dishwasher. Im not 
minded to make LV pay anything more in this respect. 
 
Compensation
I know LV has paid a total of £400  the £100 suggested by our Investigator, plus £300 when 
it accepted the claim in March 2023. Im not persuaded that is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances here.
I accept that when Mrs T had to wash up by hand for two months, for her that caused 
serious disruption to her daily life. I say that because shes explained to our Investigator 
about some of her medical conditions, with symptoms such as exhaustion. For Mrs T, having 
use of a dishwasher was clearly a necessity, without which her daily routine and what she 
was able to do during the day, had to substantially change.
I also accept that Mrs T feels her conditions have been exacerbated by this situation. And 
I can certainly see that having to do extra work, such as washing up, as well as suffering 
worry over the whole year since notifying the claim until LV accepted it, would cause her 
more concern over her health. 
I noted above that Mrs T lived for a year in a damp kitchen which she thought felt colder. 
I dont doubt this was very inconvenient for her. And Im mindful of the not insubstantial 
worry she was facing about the deteriorating state of the kitchen. She also faced the upset 
caused by LV declining her claim.
Taking all of that into account, I think a total of £1,000 compensation is fairly and reasonably 
due to Mrs T. I appreciate she has referred to an award between £2,000 and £6,000. But 
I think an award in that range wouldnt be fair and reasonable here. That level of award would usually only be made where the complainant had been affected for more than a year 
and as Ive noted here, the worst of the distress and inconvenience Mrs T suffered here, 
which Ive found LV is liable for, was limited to the two-month period after the dishwasher 
was damaged. 
LV said it accepted my findings.
Mrs T was unhappy with my findings. Ive summarised her responses below:
Mrs T provided a re-write of my decision, to include facts she feels are important and 
which she believes I had overlooked.
She said the second leak detection company did attend. 
She is upset again by my further reference to rising damp.
Mrs T said a lot had happened since March 2023 that needed to be taken into account  
she said she feels that to not do so would be unjust and biased. She also felt this was 
what was meant by my decision being provisional and inviting further evidence.
There are various illegalities which have been overlooked, including vandalism.
LV withheld documents in breach of data rights.
She was offended by my appearing to have assumed what she had felt when I said that 
she had felt talked down to. Her concerns were about incompetence and corruption. 
She feels she has been stereotyped as an elderly woman with disabilities.
She had replaced the dishwasher as soon as she could after receipt of the cheque, given 
it had to be paid into the bank and she had to research and order the new machine. 
From payment by her to the retailer, to completed installation, alone took 19 days. She 
had other urgent priorities at the time of receipt of the cheque too. So her distress and 
inconvenience suffered throughout this eight month period, March 2022 until installation 
was completed in November 2022, should be taken into account.
A recent DSAR request has returned photos from the visit in 2022, and a later visit (after 
March 2023) which she did not know were being taken and where she had not given 
consent for photography. She says they dont seem to be relevant to the claim. She has 
researched this and understands it to be a gross violation of privacy.
The damage in the kitchen, to the kitchen floor and including to the pipe housing for the 
dishwasher, remains. Shed complained about the damage as part of this complaint  but 
it hasnt been answered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mrs T for the detail shes given in response to my provisional decision. I can assure 
her that I was aware of all of that when considering her complaint. Ive reviewed my 
complaint summary and background set out initially, and which Ive used again in this final 
decision. Im satisfied it presents a fair summarised reflection of what happened and the key 
points of the complaint. 
There are though, two specific points raised by Mrs T which I need to add further comment 
on. These are regarding the second leak detection company and rising damp. 
Mrs Ts pointed out that the second leak detection company did attend. I appreciate that  
but Im satisfied this doesnt materially affect my findings. That is because I said it was 
reasonable for LV to have appointed both companies. I understand the previous references to rising damp have upset Mrs T. But this has been 
mentioned because it was the view of LV, during the course of its claim investigations, when 
no leaks had been found, that this might be the cause of the damage at Mrs Ts home. LVs 
decision in March 2023, that the dishwasher had likely been leaking over a prolonged period, 
and to accept a claim for water damage under the policy, superseded that. 
Ive explained provisionally that I cant look at what has happened since LV accepted the 
water damage claim. As an informal dispute resolution service, we arent claims handlers 
and we consider complaints about what has happened. Mrs Ts complaint was, in essence, 
about LV not accepting that there was water damage covered by her policy. As of 
March 2023, that issue was resolved because LV accepted, at least in part due to Mrs Ts 
diligence, that there was a valid claim under the policy. So the situation materially changed 
with LV beginning to act regarding resolving the claim. Anything that happened then, and 
which Mrs T is unhappy about, must, reasonably, form part of a new complaint.
My previous decision, the findings of which Ive copied above, was a provisional one. It 
explained clearly the period which I was considering. I invited the parties to provide further 
evidence regarding my findings. There was no indication from or intent by me expressed to 
extend that period or to welcome evidence about what had occurred and upset which had 
been caused, after LVs acceptance in March 2023. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service does not make decisions about criminal matters. We 
cant decide if a breach of data rights has occurred. Issues like that are for the courts and 
regulators such as the Information Commissioners Office to determine.  
With the above comment noted, I did confirm in my provisional findings that LVs agent, 
during investigations into the leak, caused additional damage to the dishwasher. And 
I accepted that this caused Mrs T distress and inconvenience. As part of our complaint 
process, relevant reports and complaint evidence have been shared with Mrs T. 
Im sorry that my provisional findings have caused offense to Mrs T. I can assure her that 
I fully considered her submissions and impartially came to my views about what had 
happened. Part of my role is to take into account the specific circumstances of the 
complainant in order to properly determine if theyve been caused distress and 
inconvenience. I can confirm that my provisional findings and this final decision have been 
made impartially with no bias. 
I appreciate that Mrs T disagrees with my assessment of the period of suffering LV is 
responsible for in respect of replacing her dishwasher. But Mrs T hasnt said anything new 
that I wasnt aware of when reaching my provisional findings. I remain satisfied that my 
provisional findings and outcome, set out in this respect are fair and reasonable.  
I appreciate that Mrs T is upset by photos she has recently received from LV. As she has 
only recently received them, their existence and how Mrs T feels about them was not part of 
her original complaint about the claim and LVs conduct during 2022 and the early part of 
2023. LV needs a chance to consider Mrs Ts complaint in this respect before the Financial 
Ombudsman Service can become involved.
I know there is unresolved damage at Mrs Ts home. But as of March 2023 LV accepted 
there was damage for it to consider under the policy. The fact of that damage having been 
unresolved until March 2023, and what LV fairly had to do regarding the dishwasher, has 
been considered by me.  What has happened since LVs acceptance on 27 March 2023, 
including any repair or lack thereof, would need, as Ive said, to be dealt with as a new 
complaint. With regret for any disappointment this may cause Mrs T, having considered her responses 
to my provisional decision, Im not minded to change my views on or the outcome of, the 
complaint. As such my provisional findings, along with my comments above, are now the 
findings of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require LV to pay Mrs T a further £600 compensation. Where my total award is £1,000 but 
£400 has already been paid.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to provide 
the redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman