DRN-4040999
The complaint
Mrs C complains The Prudential Assurance Company Ltd delayed processing the transfer of 
her pension to True Potential. She says shes lost out financially because of them and had to 
delay her retirement plans because of their inaction. She now wants Prudential to cover the 
lost investment growth she believes shes missed out on had the money been invested with 
True Potential when it should have been. In addition, Mrs C also isnt sure the compensation 
Prudential have offered on the part of her upheld complaint looks reasonable.
What happened
In April 2017, Mrs C took out a retirement account with the Prudential. At the time she 
invested in their Pru Growth Fund. Some three years later, Mrs C became concerned about 
the impact COVID was having on her investments. Having spoken to her adviser, she asked 
him to move her investment into Prudentials cash fund on 13 March 2020.
Less than a week later, Mrs C had a change of heart and asked her adviser to cancel the 
switch. On 18 March 2020, her adviser contacted Prudential and asked them to cancel the 
alteration. The terms of Mrs Cs plan didnt allow switches to be changed, and Prudential 
didnt inform Mrs C or her adviser of this; both of whom were left under the impression that 
as the instruction had gone in, it had been acted upon.
When Prudential receive customer instructions to move monies out of the PruFund, theres a 
28 day wait period before they action the request. Prudential settled Mrs Cs fund into their 
cash fund on 14 April 2020.
At around the same time, Mrs C says her adviser explained he was leaving his existing 
organisation and moving to a new firm, True Potential. As Mrs C wasnt happy with the 
charges on her existing Prudential retirement account, she decided she would look at 
alternate providers. Mrs C explained that having undertaken her own research, she decided 
she wanted to move her pension to True Potential.
In August 2020, Prudential made a unit price adjustment to their PruFund. Mrs C 
subsequently contacted her IFA a week later to try and understand why shed not seen her 
pension fund increase. After checking her pension account, Mrs Cs IFA identified her funds 
were still sat in cash so contacted Prudential to understand what had happened. Having 
spoken to Prudential they logged the issue as a complaint on 10 September 2020.
After looking into her concerns, Prudential upheld Mrs Cs complaint. They determined Mrs 
C had lost out financially having not been invested. They determined she shouldve been 
invested in the PruFund between 10 July 2020 (the earliest date Mrs C could have got back 
into the PruFund) and 11 September 2020. Having considered Prudentials resolution letter 
to her, Mrs C wasnt happy with their proposed settlement and asked them to look at the 
case again. 
Mrs C re-contacted Prudential in February 2021 as she was concerned that having had her 
complaint re-opened on 18 December 2020, shed heard nothing since. Shortly thereafter, 
Prudential issued their updated complaint response to Mrs C. Having looked at her case 
again, they decided the redress theyd offered should run from 10 July 2020 to 20 November 
2020. The latter date was when her monies were eventually moved back into the PruFund. 
Prudential paid the redress into Mrs Cs plan on 4 March 2021 and gave her an additional 
£250 to the £250 theyd already paid her for the trouble and upset theyd caused her.
Mrs C contacted Prudential a week later. She told them shed originally planned to retire in 
September 2020, the point at which the complaint was originally raised. True Potential 
submitted a transfer request to Prudential on 16 March 2021 to move Mrs Cs pension fund 
to them. On 1 April 2021, Prudential sent the transfer payment to True Potential.
Prudential told Mrs C they were upholding her complaint because of the poor experience 
and service shed received from them. They said, however, as there wasnt sufficient 
evidence Mrs C was planning to move to True Potential back in September 2020, they 
werent prepared to compensate her for any lost investment growth she could have received 
at True Potential had there not been delays in switching her fund. By the end of the 
complaints process, Prudential had increased what it had offered Mrs C to a total of £2,000 
for the trouble and upset theyd caused her.
Mrs C was unhappy with Prudentials decision so referred her complaint to this service 
setting out the same concerns, specifically that Prudential hadnt done enough to recognise 
the inconvenience it had caused to her retirement planning and the potential financial loss 
that resulted from the delay in transferring to True Potential. The complaint was considered 
by one of our investigators. She concluded that Prudential hadnt treated Mrs C fairly. She 
also said, in summary:
She thought there was sufficient evidence to conclude Mrs C was planning to retire when 
she said she was and was planning to move her pension away from Prudential. Her 
proposed redress reflected this.
She thought the £2,000 that Prudential had offered Mrs C for the trouble theyd caused 
her was fair.
Prudential, however, didnt agree with the investigators view. They said in summary:
They didnt believe there was any evidence that Mrs C was planning to move her 
retirement account until they received the transfer request in March 2021.
They felt had Mrs C wanted to retire in September 2020, she would have raised it within 
the original complaints process, but she didnt.
Prudential also said that had Mrs C wanted to move her monies elsewhere, she couldve 
done so at any time without having to wait for the complaint to be resolved.
The investigator was not persuaded to change her view as she did not believe Prudential 
had presented any new arguments that shed not already considered.
Prudential asked for the case to be passed to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
After carefully considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision explaining that I 
planned to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. For completeness, Ive set out the findings I made in 
full below.My provisional decision
I have considered all the evidence provided and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im of the view that the 
fair and reasonable outcome is the complaint should be upheld in part. Whilst I appreciate 
Prudential may likely be disappointed with this decision, Ill explain why below. 
What I dont think is in any doubt here is whether Prudential were right to uphold Mrs Cs 
complaint about the service she received from them. Prudential have accepted the way they 
handled the PruFund switch to cash and back again, along with their follow-up 
communications about this, werent as theyd wish. Mrs C told this service she wasnt sure 
the compensation Prudential offered on that part of her complaint looked reasonable.
1) Was the redress approach Prudential took in putting things right for Mrs C for the period 
up to 20 November 2020 fair?
When mistakes occur, it is important consumers are treated fairly when firms look to put 
things right. Put simply, that means the business must place the customer back into the 
same position, or as close to the same position they wouldve been in had the error not 
taken place. So, I first need to consider whether the solution proposed by Prudential places 
Mrs C as close to the same position she wouldve been in had the error of the delayed 
switch from cash to the PruFund not occurred. 
Prudential conceded on their call to Mrs C they shouldve gone back to her IFA in March 
2020 when they received his instruction to cancel the switch to explain they werent able to 
action his cancellation request. However, despite not wishing to move into the cash fund, 
based on the instruction they received from Mrs Cs IFA, the first switch from the PruFund to 
cash happened on the 9 April. The earliest time the cash couldve been moved back into the 
PruFund was 10 July. Thats because according to Prudentials terms, a new switch cant 
then take place until three months after the initial switch. The monies were eventually moved 
back, notionally, to the PruFund in November 2020. This timeline (July to November 2020) 
therefore follows the timeframe Prudential worked their redress to. Having looked at the loss 
calculation Prudential have shared with this service, their methodology follows an approach 
that Im comfortable with and one that I wouldve asked them to take had they not taken the 
steps already themselves. 
2) Does the Prudential need to go further to account for losses Mrs C says have occurred 
that relate to i) the delay in transferring to True Potential (lost investment growth 
potential) and ii) being unable to retire in September 2020?
There are several components to this part of Mrs Cs complaint. To start with, Ive looked at 
what evidence there is on the file that demonstrates Mrs C was actually planning to retire at 
the point she says. Mrs C has said it was always her intention to move away from Prudential 
when she heard her existing adviser was moving to True Potential. She says shes had a 
long working relationship with the IFA and having researched his new employer, she wanted 
to continue utilising his services when he moved to True Potential. She claims that had 
Prudential resolved her complaint sooner, it wouldve allowed her to move to True Potential 
in September 2020 when her IFA had started there. At that point, she says shed have been 
able to retire. Prudential have said theyve seen no evidence to prove Mrs C intended to 
move providers and, as such, shouldnt be liable for any lost investment growth opportunity 
she claims. 
Ive thought about Prudentials position carefully. Given Mrs C says she made the decision to 
move away from Prudential herself, she didnt go through a regulated advice process. Had 
she done, I wouldve asked to have seen the fact-find, suitability report and supporting documentation. However, as this was an individual decision on her part, it therefore follows 
that I wouldnt expect such documentation to exist. In addition, her retirement account was 
set up in April 2017 and contained only money purchase funds so Mrs C was under no 
obligation to obtain professional advice before making any decision to move away from 
Prudential. Without documentary evidence, I can therefore well understand Prudentials 
thought process in reaching the decision they did by not upholding the part of Mrs Cs 
complaint that related to the lost investment potential. However, just because there arent 
any advice records, it doesnt mean it was never Mrs Cs intention to move. True Potential 
have confirmed to this service Mrs C transferred to them without any regulated advice off the 
back of a direct marketing offer.
As Mrs C didnt go through an advice process, I've looked at other evidence in helping shape 
my decision. I have seen an email that Mrs C sent to her IFA in September 2020. The FCA 
Register shows her IFA moved to True Potential on 25 August 2020. At that stage, Mrs C 
was seeking to understand what was happening with her retirement account. At that point a 
complaint was raised because there were clearly problems with her fund. When Prudential 
eventually resolved the unit price issue at the beginning of March 2021, she immediately 
moved her monies away. So, despite the lack of any advice documentation, I think its clear 
that it was always her intention to move away from Prudential. But, for me to uphold Mrs Cs 
complaint in full, I need to be satisfied whether delaying the transfer by six months was a 
reasonable thing to do. Im not sure it was, and Ill explain why.
When a consumer complains, its a fair assumption a firm will work to put things right in a 
reasonable time frame. So I think initially, it would be reasonable for Mrs C to delay moving 
her pension because she wouldve thought Prudential were taking care of her concerns. In 
addition, she most likely concluded given the Prudential would need to make amendments to 
her plan, it would probably be simpler to leave the monies where they were whilst they were 
undertaking that work. 
However, I think there is a tipping point when most consumers would think enough. 
Particularly where the impact of the delays are significantly impeding on the consumers 
ability to move into a different phase in their life, in Mrs Cs case, giving up work. So, whilst I 
think it reasonable that Mrs C initially allowed Prudential time to put things right, once the 
complaint had reached the end of the year and still not been resolved, I think that shouldve 
been the time at which most consumers would draw a line in the sand and explore what 
other steps they could take to move forward with their retirement plans. Im of the opinion the 
end of the year is important for a number of reasons; firstly because Prudential should have 
resolved the consumers complaint by November and I think it more likely than not, Mrs C 
was advised of that eight week deadline so, by that point, another month wouldve passed. 
But importantly, I also think its at that point, Mrs C shouldve realised Prudential were 
struggling to put things right and delaying the transfer any further would only prolong her 
ability to retire. 
In reaching that opinion, Ive also thought about whether there were any barriers preventing 
Mrs C from moving her monies. We need to remember that when enacting a pension 
transfer, its up to the consumer to select a new provider and give authority to that firm to 
approach the existing scheme. Whilst Im cognisant the process was undertaken on a non-
advised basis, Mrs C could have done that at any time. Whilst she may have made her 
wishes known to Prudential that she ultimately planned to move elsewhere, until such time 
as Prudential are provided with a fully completed transfer form, they would continue to 
manage her monies to the mandate Mrs C had given them. However, Ive seen no evidence 
to suggest that Prudential were stopping Mrs C from moving her retirement account 
elsewhere at any time. Ive also no reason to believe that if Prudential were asked to transfer 
the pension funds elsewhere, they wouldnt have done so. So, it therefore follows, that I believe Prudential should be held accountable for the lost 
investment growth potential Mrs C has suffered by her monies not being invested with True 
Potential. However, as Ive already said, I think that potential loss should be capped from her 
complaint in September 2020 to the end of the year. And thats because, its at that point 
when I think a tipping point wouldve been reached at which most customers wouldve drawn 
a line in the sand and requested a transfer rather than delay their life plans any further. I 
should acknowledge that what Im doing isnt an exact science but, the principle is that I think 
Mrs C should have acted sooner and therefore I need to account for this somehow. In other 
words, I think Mrs C should reasonably have taken action with regards to her pension from 1 
January 2021. My approach to redress, covered below, reflects this.
Finally, given the trouble and upset Prudential caused, they originally offered Mrs C £250 to 
say sorry. As Prudential then had to re-open her complaint, they subsequently gave Mrs C 
another £250 for the further trouble. Finally, they gave her an additional £1,500 for the 
inconvenience shed suffered on her subsequent complaint. Having reflected on the impact 
Prudential have caused to Mrs C, Im of the view the £2,000 theyve already offered to her is 
a fair and reasonable amount. As such, I wont be asking Prudential to make any further 
payment in respect of the distress and inconvenience theyve caused that resulted in the 
delays to Mrs C starting her retirement.
Responses to my provisional decision
After reviewing my provisional decision Mrs C contacted this service and explained she had 
nothing further to add. However, Prudential explained they didnt agree with the provisional 
decision. They said they still believed there was a lack of evidence that Mrs C planned to 
switch her pension sooner. They also said in summary,
There are similar cases to that of Mrs C where this service had rejected the complaints. 
Prudential said this service wasnt being consistent by upholding her case because on 
the other three cases they referred to, they felt the circumstances of the complaint were 
the same as Mrs Cs case.
Once they received the transfer request in March 2021, they moved Mrs Cs monies 
promptly to True Potential and as such, dont believe she suffered any delays.
They didnt feel the start date that had been set in the redress section took account of a 
delay that wasnt their fault.
They also sought clarification on the redress that had been set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about Prudentials subsequent submissions. And, having reviewed 
the file again I fail to be persuaded by their arguments. So, it seems to me that Prudentials 
actions resulted in significant delays in Mrs C being able to move her monies elsewhere and 
start her retirement.
In September 2020, Mrs C had just turned 58 a few weeks earlier. There is correspondence 
between Mrs Cs IFA and Prudential from November 2020 confirming Mrs Cs intention of 
retiring having to be delayed. And, whilst it doesnt specifically state she was wishing to transfer out of Prudential, once the unit prices had been resolved in March 2021, she 
immediately moved away. I think its important to note at that point, her IFA was no longer 
working for his previous firm (the FCA Register shows he moved to True Potential on 25 
August 2020). So, taking this into account along with the wider information detailed within 
the provisional decision, I find it more likely than not that she always planned to retire and 
transfer her monies away to her adviser who had joined True Potential. Thats evident in the 
fact she did so once Prudential had corrected her units. 
As Ive already explained to Prudential in my earlier correspondence to them, I think it 
improbable her IFA wouldve still been getting involved at that point (November 2020) if there 
was no prospect of the money coming across to him. So with all this in mind, I think Mrs C 
would likely have transferred in September, shortly after her adviser moved firms, and it was 
only because she had to pursue a complaint that she paused doing so. My view was, and 
remains, that this wasnt unreasonable on Mrs Cs part and that the date of her complaint is 
therefore a reasonable point from which to consider redress. However, as Ive already 
explained, I dont believe its fair for Prudential to carry the liability for the full six months of 
delays. Thats because, as I highlighted in my provisional decision, Mrs C should have 
drawn a line in the sand and moved her monies sooner.
In their response to the provisional decision, Prudential highlighted three cases which they 
felt were almost identical to Mrs Cs complaint. They said in those cases, this service had 
rejected the complaints and therefore, it would be inconsistent to apply a different set of 
standards to Mrs Cs complaint by upholding hers. Ive looked very closely at the three cases 
Prudential says are the same and whilst I agree theres similar themes running through 
those and Mrs Cs complaint, Im satisfied there are differences between the cases, 
especially in relation to the evidence relating to the complainants intention to transfer, what 
the complainants would reasonably have done given the circumstances and the willingness 
of the receiving scheme to receive funds despite an ongoing complaint.
Im satisfied Mrs C was planning on transferring and retiring and that her retirement was 
highlighted to Prudential. When the unit prices on her plan were corrected, she immediately 
followed through on what she said she would do  and thats transfer to True Potential to her 
adviser with whom shed had a long relationship with. So, joining the dots, Im satisfied it was 
always her intention to move to True Potential despite the lack of any paper evidence, which 
as Ive already explained, was as a consequence of her going through a non-advised advice 
process.
In the provisional decision, I set out the proposed redress I considered was fair to 
recompense Mrs C for some of the delays shed experienced. In their response Prudential 
explained they didnt believe the start date of 10 September 2020 took account of the 
normal servicing standards they had to respond to transfer requests. In addition, they also 
explained that as Mrs C hadnt provided a correct national insurance number, that added a 
small delay to the processing timescales. Instead of using the day of her complaint as the 
start date, Prudential explained it would be fairer to use 28 September 2020. That would 
take account of the nine working days they need, the delays from Mrs C not providing the 
national insurance number and the time to pay the transfer monies away. Prudential 
explained that wouldve been the earliest they therefore could have paid the transfer, had 
Mrs C requested her monies be moved on 10 September as opposed to complaining on that 
date. Ive thought about Prudentials request and Im satisfied any transfer application would 
need to go through a handling process so, as Im comfortable with their explanation, I have 
altered the start date in the redress section to 28 September 2020.
In summary, as Prudential has not presented any new arguments that Ive not already 
considered, it therefore follows that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint for the same reasons that I set in my provisional decision above. I have, however, slightly adjusted my approach to 
compensation following Prudentials comments.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs C as close as possible 
to the position she would probably now be in if she had been able to move her funds to True 
Potential.
It is not possible to say precisely what she would have done, but I am satisfied that what I 
have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs C's circumstances and objectives.
What should Prudential do?
To compensate Mrs C fairly Prudential should:
Compare the performance of Mrs C's investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Prudential should pay into Mrs C's pension plan, to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation. Prudentials payment should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief. Prudential shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan 
if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Prudential are unable to pay the compensation into Mrs C's pension plan, they should pay 
that amount direct to Mrs C. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mrs C 
wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs C's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mrs C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mrs C would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, 
resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mrs C in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Prudential considers theyre required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs C how 
much they have taken off. Prudential should also give Mrs C a tax deduction certificate in 
respect of interest if Mrs C asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interestPrudential 
Retirement 
Account 
PlanSwitched to 
True 
PotentialTrue 
Potentials 
Growth 
portfolio28 
September 
202031 
December 
20208% simple 
per year on 
any loss 
from the end 
date to the 
date of 
settlement 
Actual value
This means the actual amount of Mrs Cs Prudential Retirement Account Plan at the end 
date.
Fair value
This is what Mrs Cs Prudential Retirement Account Plan would have been worth at the end 
date had it produced a return using the benchmark.
Prudential should in their calculation use the value of what Mrs Cs fund would have been on 
28 September 2020 had all units been switched from Cash to the PruFund.
Any withdrawal from the True Potential Plan should be deducted from the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if you total all those payments and deduct that figure at the 
end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs C had intended to switch her plan to True Potential in September 2020 and retire shortly 
thereafter. Ive capped the redress to the end of that year as I believe thats the point at 
which the consumer shouldve concluded it wasnt in her best interests to delay her 
retirement plans any longer.
If it hasnt already done so, Prudential should pay the £2,000 it offered Mrs C for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused, which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and that The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman