DRN-2892344
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) unfairly placed default markers on is credit 
file.
What happened
Mr P had a credit card with BOS. In July 2016, a notice of default was sent to Mr P. In 
October 2016, BOS registered the default and the debt of £1278 was passed to a debt 
collection agency (DCA). In December 2019, Mr P complained to BOS. BOS agreed to write 
off the balance and noted this on Mr Ps credit file as a partial settlement. 
Mr P complained that it wasnt fair to register the default. He was suffering from ill health, 
stress and financial difficulty - and BOS didnt treat him sympathetically and in line with their 
obligations. He wasnt aware the default had been registered and didnt receive the letters 
from BOS. He was now finding it difficult to find accommodation. He wants the default 
removed and compensation paid.
In March 2021, BOS said Mr P contacted them in December 2019. And at that stage, they 
decided to write off the outstanding balance he owed. A partial settlement was noted on his 
credit file. The default would remain on his credit file until October 2022. This couldnt be 
removed.
Mr P brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said BOS had acted reasonably. In 2016, 
Mr P was struggling financially. BOS tried to contact him several times. At that stage, Mr P 
hadnt advised BOS of any of his medical problems. BOS defaulted his credit card account in 
October 2016 and registered the default.  The first record BOS had of Mr Ps issues was in 
November 2019  when Mr P said he was being hassled by the DCA, gave details of his 
income and expenditure and his ill health. And then  BOS agreed to write off the debt. This 
was recorded on his credit file. But the default information would stay on Mr Ps credit file 
until October 2022  six years from the date of the first default.
Mr P asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ps complaint is that BOS didnt treat him fairly under their obligation to do so 
under the Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance. And  if they had, they wouldnt have 
registered a default against him. He was now having a lot of difficulty finding living 
accommodation because of this. He faces a lot of personal challenges in terms of his 
financial situation and his health.
The guidance for dealing with defaults is laid down by the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO). This says when a consumer is at least three months behind with their payments then 
a default may be registered. And it would expect a default to be registered by the time the 
consumer is six months behind with their payments. It is the business responsibility to put 
an entry on the credit file. This cannot be taken off unless it is an error. 
And - businesses have an obligation to treat customers in financial difficulty sympathetically. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance on this is:
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and 
due consideration.
Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include the firm doing one 
or more of the following: 
- considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or 
charges
- allowing deferment of payment of arrears
- accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time
- Where a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, a firm should allow 
the customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt.
Ive considered Mr Ps complaint in the context of these guidances.
The first default goes back to 2016 - when I can see from Mr Ps statements that he was 
behind with his payments. He made no payments to his credit card account from April 2016 
until August 2016  after when, he paid £1 a month until the debt was defaulted and passed 
to a DCA in October 2016 with the balance £1278.68 debit. BOS sent him a notice of default 
in July 2016. Mr P says he didnt receive this. But Ive seen that it was sent to his address 
which BOS held. Mr P says that BOS had accepted a payment of £1 a month - and he was 
told they would hold off on the default  but Ive seen no record of this in BOSs files. Also, 
there is no record of Mr P having contacted BOS about his circumstances during this period. 
Ive sent that BOS did try to get in touch with Mr P several times in May 2016 and June 
2016, but he didnt return their calls. In June 2016, July 2016 and August 2016, I can see 
that Mr Ps statements included warnings that legal action could follow as it said You have 
failed to make a minimum paymentfailing to make your minimum payment can mean that 
you have broken the terms of this credit agreement and could result in us taking legal action 
against youand could make it more difficult for you to obtain credit in future.  Can see that 
the statements were sent to Mr Ps address that BIS had on file.
So  Mr P was behind on his payments. By September 2016, the arrears were £237.09. 
There hadnt been any response to the notice of default sent in July 2016  so I cant say 
that BOS were wrong to default Mr P account. And  because BOS werent aware of his ill 
health issues at that time, I cant say they treated him unfairly in the context of their 
obligations of how to treat customers in such circumstances.
Turning to 2019  Mr P advised BOS that he couldnt pay the debt collection agency. He 
explained his circumstances  that he had ill health and couldnt work as a result. He sent to 
BOS details of his income and expenditure and a medical note about his ill health. At that 
stage, BOS looked at Mr Ps circumstances, and agreed to write off the balance of his debt. 
And this was noted on his credit file as partially settled. But  the entries on his credit file 
will be removed in October 2022  six years from the first default. Ive looked at what BOS 
did in the context of their obligations. As they agreed to write off the debt  I think its difficult 
to say that they didnt act sympathetically  as Mr P no longer has a debt to repay. And - the 
FCAs guidance doesnt ask for defaults not to be advised to a customers credit file. And  
BOS, like all banks, have an obligation to advice accurate information to the credit reference 
agencies  and thats what theyve done. During our investigation, Mr P also added that hed been harassed by the DCA and this was 
also causing him further health problems. I can see this wasnt part of his original complaint. 
Also  this is a complaint about the conduct of the DCA, not BOS. So  if Mr P wants to 
pursue this complaint, he should complain in the first instance to the DCA.
I have every sympathy for Mr Ps situation. But - looking at what happened, I cant say that 
BOS acted unfairly or unreasonably in their actions. And so  while Mr P will of course be 
disappointed by my decision, I wont be asked BOS to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman