DRN-4309145
The complaint
Mr C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) have incorrectly 
recorded claims made on his policy which he says is affecting the price when looking to take 
out home insurance with other insurers. 
What happened
Mr C had home insurance with RSA which also included home emergency cover. Mr C 
complained to RSA as he was concerned about two claims which had been recorded on his 
policy. One was for a claim in August 2021 and another in January 2022. RSA responded 
and explained theyre required to register all claims. They said, all incidents leading to a 
customer calling RSA to make a claim are registered as claims, and these are then logged 
on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). They explained this database holds all 
reported incidents over the last six years, including those where a claim wasnt made. They 
said insurers use CUE when a customer is buying insurance. They explained the only 
circumstances where RSA doesnt register claims and report them to CUE is where the call 
relates to a theoretical scenario. They explained, where there was an incident, but the claim 
is not covered or pursued, then this would still be set up as a claim and will be logged on 
CUE. RSA listed the home emergency claims showing on Mr Cs policy and which had been 
reported to CUE. This included the two claims Mr C was complaining about. RSA explained 
theyre required to note all claims, whether paid out or not  which theyd done in this case. 
So, they didnt uphold the complaint.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C. He thought RSA hadnt acted unreasonably in 
recording the claims. Mr C disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr C will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. Out of the claims showing on Mr Cs policy, he complains about two  
which he believes should be removed. Theres a claim made on 2 August 2021 for 
accidental loss for £0, and a claim made on 27 January 2022 for accidental loss for £406. 
In relation to the August 2021 claim, Mr C says, after he reported the incident to RSA, he 
sorted out the problem himself. He says he called back shortly after to explain the issue was 
resolved and RSA cancelled the claim. Mr C believes this shouldnt be recorded as a claim 
as no money was paid out. In relation to the January 2022 claim, Mr C says he reported an 
issue with the hot and cold water in his shower. He says RSA sent an engineer who carried 
out an inspection and explained the shower was faulty and needed replacing.  Mr C says he 
arranged his own plumber to fit a new shower, but the problem still remained. Mr C says he 
informed RSA and they sent another engineer who said the previous engineers opinion 
wasnt correct. Mr C says he complained, and RSA then paid him compensation and 
reimbursed the costs hed incurred. Mr C believes this shouldnt be recorded as a claim as 
the money paid out to him was for compensation. 
RSA have provided claim notes and system notes for both claims. In relation to the August 
2021 claim, the notes show Mr C called RSA to report an issue with his boiler. He explained 
it was showing a fault code and he had no heating or hot water. The notes show Mr C called 
back around half an hour later to say the issue had been resolved and the claim was 
cancelled. RSA have provided a screenshot of their system which shows the claim was 
cancelled with no money paid out. I can see the issue was resolved by Mr C without RSA 
needing to send out an engineer to investigate or incur any costs to resolve the problem. So, 
I do acknowledge why Mr C is concerned about this showing on his policy. 
The CUE is a database which records information about motor and home incidents, as well 
as other areas. An insurer has a duty to make accurate records. If an insurer is signed up to 
CUE, then they will make a record of any incident theyve been made aware of, whether that 
leads to a claim or not. In this case, I agree with Mr C that this report didnt lead to a claim 
requiring RSA to pay out any costs. But a report was made, and a claim was initially 
registered. Even though the problem was resolved by Mr C without RSA incurring any costs, 
the information shows RSA were made aware of an incident. So, given theres a duty on 
RSA to make accurate records, I cant say theyve acted unfairly in recording this incident. 
In relation to the January 2022 claim, the system notes show Mr C called RSA to report an 
issue with water escaping from the boiler, and the water only running lukewarm. The notes 
show engineers attended but Mr C was given conflicting information about the cause of the 
issue. The notes say Mr C complained the first engineer felt the issue was with the heat 
exchanger, but the second engineer felt it was with the shower. The notes say RSA 
acknowledged theyd made errors involving delay and not giving Mr C updates, so they paid 
£100 compensation. The notes say Mr C decided to replace the shower but would invoice 
RSA if this didnt resolve the issue. Mr C then replaced the shower and called RSA to 
complain as this didnt resolve the problem. RSA then paid a further £100 compensation and 
also reimbursed Mr C £209.99 for the parts and labour. A further visit was arranged for an 
engineer to attend, and they found the main heat exchanger had gone as well as other 
issues. Given the costs involved to repair, the engineer felt the boiler was beyond 
economical repair, and this was agreed by RSA. I can see RSA then explained Mr Cs policy 
didnt include any boiler contribution.       
I acknowledge why Mr C is concerned  he believes the costs paid out by RSA represent a 
combination of compensation and reimbursement for costs hed incurred. Mr C says RSA 
themselves are responsible for these costs being incurred so its unfair for this to be showing 
against his policy. But, looking at the information provided by RSA, I dont believe the claim 
amount showing on his policy represents the amount paid to Mr C. I say this because, firstly, 
the amount paid to Mr C totals £409.99  but the amount showing on his policy for this claim 
is £406. Secondly, the claim notes provided by RSA show other costs were paid out. For 
example, there were three engineer visits, and the notes show a fixed fee had been agreed 
for this. Theres a breakdown provided by RSA and this totals £406.20. 
So, I believe its more likely than not the amount recorded on the claim represents these 
costs. And that being the case, I dont think its unfair for this to be recorded as it reflects the 
costs RSA have paid out.    
That said, I think its important to make the point that insurers are required to record what 
theyve actually paid out in relation to a claim on CUE even if this includes costs to put right 
things which have gone wrong as well as any compensation. This ensures the overall 
amount recorded for the claim on CUE reflects what the insurer has paid out overall on the claim. So, even if it did represent the costs paid to Mr C, then I cant say RSA wouldve acted 
unreasonably in recording this.   
I understand why Mr C has complained, and I hope he feels reassured that Ive checked the 
information carefully. But I cant say RSA have acted unfairly in the way theyve recorded the 
claims information. I wish to reassure Mr C Ive read and considered everything he has sent 
in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent 
seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my 
decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman