DRN-1693271
 
The complaint
Mrs M says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI) with her mortgage.
What happened  
Mrs M took out a Halifax mortgage in 1992. She was sold PPI around the same time.
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mrs M disagrees with our 
adjudicators view. Mrs M mainly says that she was unaware that she had PPI and it wasnt 
ever explained, so she doesnt think she asked to have it. And she feels the policy wasnt 
something she would've needed. She has asked for a review so this complaint comes to me 
to make a final decision. 
What I've decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Based on all the information Ive seen, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why I say 
this.
Bank records show that Mrs M took out her mortgage at a Halifax branch. Ive seen nothing 
signed by Mrs M from then as Halifax couldnt provide any of Mrs Ms paperwork from the 
sale. But its not surprising, given how long ago this happened, that documents arent still 
available. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mrs M to recall exactly what was 
discussed at the time. 
In order to uphold Mrs Ms mis-selling complaint Id have to find that its likely she wasnt 
given a fair choice about PPI or that it was added to her mortgage account without her 
consent. I have to look at everything and decide what I think is most likely.
The mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mrs Ms home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. So, 
I can see why she mightve felt PPI was useful to have at the time. 
On balance, looking at what shes told us about her financial circumstances, I think its likely 
that Mrs M decided she wanted the benefits the policy could offer and it was added to her 
mortgage when she decided to buy PPI to protect her home.  
Halifax says it recommended the PPI so it had to take reasonable steps to make sure the 
cover was suitable for Mrs M as well as giving her important policy information in a clear 
way. Ive checked the available policy documents that were in use around the time Mrs M took out 
her mortgage. I think its reasonable to assume that the terms and conditions in the policy 
Mrs M took out are likely to have been broadly the same in all important respects. And I dont 
find that PPI wouldve been unsuitable for her. 
Mrs M was eligible for the PPI. The policy terms likely wouldnt have made it difficult for her 
to make a claim. And Mrs M wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy wouldnt 
have covered. So even if Halifax had given Mrs M more information about the exclusions 
and limitations this isnt likely to have put her off buying PPI. Mrs M probably couldve 
benefitted from everything the policy offered.  
Mrs M told us she wasnt sure what her sick pay through work was at the time. PPI offered 
useful benefits if she couldnt have relied on getting any sick pay. Im assuming she mightve 
been able to rely on getting some sick pay as she told us she was on a permanent contract 
with benefits. But I think PPI still couldve been useful even if she was entitled to some sick 
pay from her employer.
The policy wouldve paid out in full for up to 24 months per claim in the event of accident and 
sickness. So I think the PPI probably provided better protection than she couldve relied on 
getting through her employer. And it wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay providing 
Mrs M with a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if she had some extra costs as a 
result of being sick or disabled. 
PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mrs M lost her job and 
became unexpectedly unemployed. 
It looks to me like Mrs M couldve made repeated claims on the policy, giving her long term 
protection for her mortgage.
I dont know if Mrs M wouldve always had savings to rely on if shed needed to make a 
claim. And, bearing in mind that it appears she didnt put all her money towards keeping 
down the cost of borrowing, I think shed have valued the protection PPI offered if it meant 
she could keep her savings intact to provide financial security for the future. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
So, looking at her circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was suitable and the policy 
couldve been useful to her. Mrs M could be sure shed always be able to keep up the 
monthly repayments in order to protect her home. I think this wouldve been an important 
consideration at the time. 
Its possible some information Halifax gave Mrs M about the PPI costs wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I havent seen anything to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable for 
Mrs M. And given the benefits it offered her, I dont think better information wouldve 
changed her mind about buying the PPI for the reasons Ive explained.
Looked at overall, it doesnt look as if Mrs M has lost out as a result of anything Halifax did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For these reasons I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman