DRN-4498675
The complaint
Ms B and Mr T complain about their legal expenses insurer, Soteria Insurance Limited 
(Soteria). They say theyve failed to agree appropriate hourly rates for Ms Bs solicitors to 
pursue her employment claim or to authorise enough time for the necessary legal work to be 
done, bearing in mind their vulnerabilities and the impact of their medical conditions.
Ms B and Mr T are represented in bringing their complaint. But, for ease, I generally refer to 
Ms B and Mr T throughout my decision.
Where I refer to Soteria, I include their claims handlers and agents.
What happened
Ms B and Mr T took out legal expenses insurance (LEI) with Soteria as part of their home 
insurance. Ms B made a claim against her former employer for unfair dismissal and disability 
discrimination through her own solicitors. Soteria agreed to fund the claim subject to the 
solicitors agreeing their standard terms and conditions of appointment.
Under the terms and conditions of the LEI policy, Soteria agreed to pay solicitors fees at the 
hourly rate of £120. Ms B and Mr Ts solicitors charged a higher rate. They felt it was unfair 
they should have to pay the difference. And they complained too about the number of hours 
work Soteria would pay for.
Soteria didnt uphold their complaint. They said it was a requirement of the LEI policy that 
the non-panel solicitors Ms B and Mr T had appointed should agree their standard terms and 
conditions of appointment. The policy had set out the hourly rate theyd pay. Theyd taken 
Ms B and Mr Ts vulnerabilities and the complexities of Ms Bs case into account in the time 
and costs theyd authorised. And theyd agreed more hours than theyd usually have paid for 
given the nature of the claim involved.
Since Ms B and Mr T didnt accept the outcome, they brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator thought Soteria had reasonably relied on their own 
solicitors advice about costs and acted fairly. Since they were unhappy with that view, Ms B 
and Mr Ts complaint was passed to me to decide. I recently issued a provisional decision, 
followed by a second provisional decision in light of developments. Extracts of both are set 
out below.
First provisional decision
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator. Since 
my reasons are more detailed, Im issuing a provisional decision to give the parties the 
chance to make further comments before I issue a final decision.
Ms B and Mr T say Soteria have indirectly discriminated against them in relation to disability. 
Its for the courts to decide whether the Equality Act 2010 has been breached. Ive taken it 
into account when deciding this complaint, as its relevant law. But ultimately Ive decided 
this case based on whats fair and reasonable. I note Ms B and Mr Ts circumstances and 
Im sympathetic to the difficulties they face with memory loss and other health conditions. 
But, as Ill explain, I dont think Soteria have acted unreasonably or treated Ms B and Mr T 
unfairly in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covered Legal Costs which were defined as:
Reasonable, necessary and proportionate legal fees, expenses and 
Disbursements:
(a) incurred by Your Legal Representative with Our prior agreement after 
We have accepted your claim and which You are unable to recover 
elsewhere:
and
(b) incurred by the other party which We agree to pay or which You are 
ordered to pay by a court order.
We will not pay more than £50,000 in total for any one Insured Event.
The policy conditions also said that if Soteria accepted Ms B and Mr Ts choice of legal 
representative and agreed to cover their legal costs, the most they would pay would be no 
more than the amount they would have paid to their panel solicitors which, at the time, was 
£120 an hour.
Soteria contacted Ms B and Mr T in February 2022 when the LEI claim was referred to them. 
They noted the urgency of the situation, explained their involvement and confirmed LEI 
cover, subject to certain things being clarified. They set out the limits on the hourly rate they 
would pay, and that time and costs had to be authorised in advance.
Under the terms and conditions of Ms B and Mr Ts LEI cover, there was no requirement on 
Soteria to agree to the appointment of Ms Bs own solicitors until negotiations had failed and 
it was reasonable, necessary and proportionate to issue legal proceedings to move the claim 
forward. Ms B had the option of appointing Soterias panel solicitors to act for her at no cost 
to her. And the solicitor Soteria say would have acted for Ms B if that had happened had the 
appropriate experience and qualifications to handle her claim at the hourly rates set out in 
the policy. So, she had a choice of solicitors at that stage.
At the beginning of March 2022, Soteria responded to Ms B and Mr Ts concerns about the 
hourly rate they were prepared to pay the solicitors. They said their solicitors failure to agree 
the hourly rate had limited Ms Bs chances of using other solicitors given court deadlines 
were approaching, but they didnt rule it out completely. They pointed out the solicitors time 
estimate seemed excessive, they wouldnt pay for more hours than they agreed with the 
solicitors and the costs of any disputed hours may fall to Ms B.
I think Soteria made their position clear to Ms B and Mr T. And what they said was in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. I appreciate Ms B and Mr T preferred to stay with 
their existing solicitors. And Soteria were agreeable to that. But I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Soteria to ask the solicitors to accept their standard terms and conditions, 
the hourly rate and the hours they proposed.Its a common requirement of LEI policies that a policyholders own solicitors should agree 
an insurers standard terms and conditions and one we dont consider to be inherently unfair. 
Its reasonable for LEI insurers to be able to control the level of legal costs they may become 
liable for to ensure they are reasonable and proportionate, and dont exceed the policy limit. 
The requirement was set out in Ms B and Mr Ts LEI policy. So, whilst I understand Ms Bs 
solicitors were initially reluctant to agree to the terms and conditions, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Soteria to insist they did.
Ms B and Mr T say they didnt realise solicitors would charge higher rates than the policy 
would cover and wouldnt have taken it out if they had. But I cant consider a complaint about 
Soteria in relation to the sale of the policy since they werent involved in that. The policy set 
out that if Soteria agreed to the appointment of Ms B and Mr Ts own solicitors, and they 
agreed to cover their legal costs, the most they would pay would be no more than they would 
have paid their panel solicitors. And Ms B and Mr T would be responsible for any legal costs 
that fell outside that rate or any other rate that had been agreed. The hourly rate was also 
set out in the policy. So, it was reasonable for Soteria to limit the hourly rate they would pay 
to £120.
Soterias panel solicitors said Ms Bs claim wasnt particularly complex and thought the time 
Ms Bs solicitors estimated theyd spend on it was excessive. I appreciate Ms Bs solicitors 
didnt agree with that. But I think it was reasonable for Soteria to rely on their solicitors 
advice about what it was fair for them to cover  he was suitably qualified; hed taken Ms B 
and Mr Ts vulnerabilities and, later, their medical evidence into account in coming to his 
view; he recommended additional time be allowed for some of the work; and Im satisfied 
theres nothing obviously wrong with the advice he gave. Soteria were responsible for 
Reasonable, necessary and proportionate legal fees as Ive noted. The time Ive seen 
Soteria said theyd pay for was reasonable based on the advice they received. And I 
understand Soteria have recently agreed additional hours for negotiations and/or the final 
hearing to take account of Ms B and Mr Ts circumstances.
I note Soteria were considering costs and commenting on the hours they were prepared to 
agree even though the solicitors didnt sign the agreement until around mid-May 2022. So, 
its not fair to blame Soteria for any delays or inconvenience that might have arisen because 
the terms hadnt been agreed.
On balance, bearing everything in mind, I think Soteria have acted fairly and reasonably. 
Whilst I understand Ms B and Mr T will be disappointed, I dont intend to uphold their 
complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
I summarised the Developments after my first provisional decision as follows:
Ms B and Mr Ts solicitor and representative has responded to my provisional decision on 
their behalf. Hes told us Ms Bs legal claim has been settled. He says there were other steps 
that could have been taken to get a more favourable settlement, but Ms B felt pressured into 
settling because Soteria had consistently pushed back over funding the claim.
The representative made several points in relation to my provisional decision and has since 
responded to my request for further information and provided more documents, for which Im 
grateful. Ill summarise the main points hes now made:1. He acknowledged it was for the courts to decide if the Equality Act 2010 had been 
breached. But Ms B and Mr T were asking for a finding on whether Soteria had 
behaved reasonably given all the circumstances, whether they should have done 
more and whether they have provisions to assist disabled people.
2. Ms B didnt have a meaningful choice of solicitor since there was only one alternative 
solicitor Soteria said she could instruct.
3. Soteria had always authorised fewer hours than Ms Bs solicitors anticipated would 
be necessary for the work they had to carry out for her.
4. Soterias claims handlers had micro-managed the case, which was unnecessary 
since the reasonableness of the costs incurred could be reviewed at the end of the 
case. It had impeded the progress of the case and was contrary to the rules of 
natural justice.
5. The case was complex, and it was necessary for a senior lawyer to deal with it. The 
nature of Ms Bs health condition meant it was difficult to take instructions from her, 
determine quantum and decide on how to present evidence. It was appropriate for 
the senior solicitor to take charge. The LEI insurer will have the opportunity of giving 
their view on whether particular pieces of work might have been delegated during the 
costing process.
Soteria has made the following key points:
1. The representative signed their standard terms and conditions so agreed to be paid 
at the hourly rate set out in the policy.
2. They cant comment on what the final costs/hours will be as they havent seen the 
solicitors final bill. Theyve authorised around 90 hours and the solicitors were asking 
for an additional 50 hours to be authorised.
3. At the agreed rates, theyve funded around £11,000 plus VAT plus disbursements; at 
the rates the solicitors are asking for the costs would have been around £20,000 plus 
VAT plus disbursements.
4. The higher rate wasnt agreed, and the solicitors continued to act regardless. If 
higher rates had been considered, Soteria would have declined the LEI funding as 
the claim wouldnt have been proportional to the funding required.
5. They agreed a considerable number of hours because of Ms Bs circumstances 
taking into account, for example, her communication needs.
6. Based on the information they have, none of the work was done by the solicitor 
whose rate they are being asked to pay.
7. They are concerned about the way in which the solicitors have acted as they have 
breached the LEI in a number of ways, but in Ms Bs interests they havent 
terminated the funding.
I considered these points and came to a second provisional decision.
Second provisional decision
What Ive provisionally decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully reviewed the complaint in light of the points the parties have made and Ive 
changed my mind about the outcome in some respects. I am therefore issuing a second 
provisional decision to allow further comments before I issue a final decision.
My role is to consider individual complaints, so I wont comment on Soterias wider policies 
for supporting disabled people. If Ms B and Mr T wanted to raise concerns about Soterias 
policies, theyd need to approach the Financial Conduct Authority.
I now understand Ms Bs claim against her employer arose following her dismissal in July 
2021 that took effect in early October 2021. She appointed her lawyers to represent her in 
around November 2021. The date by which proceedings had to be issued isnt clear. But 
once proceedings were necessary, it was reasonable - and the policy allowed her  to 
appoint her own solicitors.
In considering whether it was fair and reasonable for Soteria to restrict the solicitors hourly 
rate to £120, Ive kept in mind the courts position in Brown-Quinn & Anor v Equity Syndicate 
Management Ltd & Another [2012] EWCA Civ. 1633. In that case the court found that legal 
expenses insurers had the right to restrict what they would pay to a non-panel firm provided 
the remuneration wasnt so low as to render the policyholders freedom of choice 
meaningless. In this case that means Soteria needed to have offered Ms B and Mr T a 
reasonable choice of suitably qualified solicitors who would act at the hourly rate they were 
willing to pay.
Soteria said that their panel firm was willing to act for Ms B and able to do so at the hourly 
rate in the policy. But Soteria could only offer one panel firm. More recently, when Ms Bs 
solicitors said they might stop acting, Soteria said they couldnt offer an alternative at all. And 
Soteria havent shown us evidence of other firms who could have acted for Ms B at the 
policy rate.
On reflection, I dont think Ms B had a meaningful choice of solicitors. In the circumstances, 
its fair for Soteria to pay her own solicitors reasonable, necessary and proportionate legal 
fees, expenses and disbursements, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
Ive noted Soterias point that Ms Bs solicitors continued to act after signing their standard 
terms and conditions. Its clear from the correspondence that Ms Bs rights to challenge the 
hourly rate were reserved. Soteria continued to deal with Ms Bs solicitors on that basis even 
though they didnt agree the reservation of rights. I dont think that affects things. Ms B had 
the right to complain. So, Ive thought about the rate that would be reasonable here.
Given their location and their expertise in the field of employment law, it was reasonable for 
Ms B and Mr T to appoint the solicitors they did. They were local, and suitably qualified to 
help.
Although Ms Bs solicitors say her claim was complex, Soteria dispute that. Counsel 
originally described the case as a classic example of an employee being dismissed 
because of something arising in consequence of a disability. Although issues arose in 
determining its value, on balance, I dont think the subject matter of the claim was out of the 
ordinary.Any complexity arose because of Ms B and Mr Ts particular communication needs. I think 
its reasonable Soteria should pay the costs of a more senior and experienced solicitor in 
communicating with Ms B and Mr T. From what Im told, the solicitor in question was a 
Grade A fee earner. But it seems likely more junior lawyers could have provided support with 
day-to-day procedural issues and drafting. The solicitors have explained that unqualified 
staff dealt with administrative tasks, including dealing with the LEI insurers, and that time 
wasnt charged for that.
Looking at the court guideline hourly rates, I can see they were as follows at the relevant 
time:
Grade A fee earner - £261
Grade B fee earner - £218
Grade C fee earner - £178
Grade D fee earner  £126
Bearing everything in mind, and in the absence of full information about who carried out all 
the work, I think it would be reasonable for Soteria to pay a blended rate of all levels of fee 
earner. That gives an hourly rate of £195.75.
Soteria have authorised the work the solicitors carried out as the case has progressed. They 
have managed the costs closely through their costs lawyers in line with the policy conditions 
that they would only pay reasonable, necessary and proportionate legal fees, expenses and 
disbursements which they had authorised in advance. Ms Bs solicitors expect Soteria to 
assess their costs at the end of the case. They say, because of that, the close control 
Soteria has had over costs during the case has been unfair and has impeded the progress of 
the case. Even if there was clear evidence of that, Im not persuaded Soteria acted unfairly 
for the reasons Ive set out before. They were entitled to make sure the costs remained 
proportionate, and they took Ms Bs circumstances into account.
Soteria say that if theyd agreed a higher rate, the costs would have become 
disproportionate, and they would have withdrawn cover. Im not persuaded they would. 
Counsel initially advised in February 2022 there were reasonable prospects of success, and 
the value of the claim was between approximately £27,000 and £32,000. In May 2023 
Counsel said the claim was worth between £15,000 and £30,000 but advised there were 
risks and offers over £15,000 should be considered. Soon afterwards a settlement was 
reached. It seems likely the claim would have followed a similar route even if the hourly rate 
had been agreed at a higher level. Soteria would probably have required settlement to be 
explored since costs were becoming disproportionate then.
I dont think its fair to blame Soteria for Ms B deciding to settle the case when she did. 
Theres no guarantee her damages would have been any higher even if the discovery 
application the solicitors say they could have made had gone ahead. The application may 
not have succeeded and its too speculative to say it would have resulted in a different 
outcome for Ms B even if it had. Its possible, given the advice on quantum, that Soteria 
would have been justified in declining any further funding on grounds of proportionality in any 
event.
Finally, I noted in my first provisional decision that the LEI insurer hadnt sold Ms B the 
policy. Following clarification about the LEI insurer at the relevant time, that statement is 
wrong. Soteria did sell the policy to Ms B and Mr T. I note Mr T said, broadly, he wouldnt 
have taken the policy out if hed known the rate was less than solicitors would charge. But 
the rate was clear, and, in any event, the issue doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint.Bearing everything in mind, I intend to uphold Ms B and Mr Ts complaint in part and direct 
Soteria to pay Ms Bs solicitors costs at the rate of £195.75 subject to the remaining terms 
and conditions of the LEI policy. That will include condition 7. Costs which requires Ms B 
and Mr T to send Soteria their legal bills and to have them assessed by the court if Soteria 
ask them to; and where there is a dispute between Soteria and Ms Bs solicitors, that must 
be resolved in accordance with the procedure set out in the standard terms of appointment 
which the solicitors signed up to.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold Ms B and Mr Ts complaint in part and direct Soteria to pay Ms Bs 
solicitors costs at the rate of £195.75 subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the 
LEI policy.
Developments following my second provisional decision
Ms B and Mr T havent commented on my second provisional decision.
Soteria have made several points and provided documents that Ive already seen and 
considered. In summary, theyve said:
1. Its unclear if Ms B has been billed.
2. There is no valid contract in place relating to the LEI funding since the terms and 
conditions werent agreed. The reservation of rights in relation to the hourly rate isnt 
valid or ethical.
3. They made clear the level of contribution they would make to the costs and what    
Ms B and Mr T would be liable for. They set out their position to the representative in 
the emails they provided.
4. If the representative was unwilling to work for the rate Soteria would pay, it could 
have withdrawn from the case and Ms B and Mr T could have sought alternative legal 
representation.
5. They dont agree Ms B and Mr T didnt have a choice of legal representative. They 
could have appointed any other firm through their Freedom of Choice option (and 
hundreds of firms are willing and able to conduct such work for the pre-agreed 
rates). Soteria told Ms B and Mr T this. 
6. It isnt Soterias responsibility as insurer to find or recommend legal representatives 
for their policyholders if they dont want to use their panel solicitor.
7. The representative isnt a firm of solicitors so its not appropriate to use the court 
guideline hourly rates to determine an appropriate hourly rate. The only solicitor in 
the company charges at a rate of £220. Its inappropriate to use the blended rate Ive 
proposed.
Ive carefully considered Soterias points and will now go on to give my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Soterias raised concerns about the solicitors intentions relating to payment of their fees by 
Ms B. They have confirmed to us that they will charge Ms B their full rate of £220 an hour so 
that she would be liable to pay the difference between that rate and the rate Soteria pay.
Ive noted Soterias points about whether the LEI funding agreement is a valid contract given 
the reservation of rights. Soteria continued to fund the claim and the solicitors carried on 
dealing with it knowing no agreement had been reached on the hourly rate and that the issue 
was being referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service on behalf of Ms B and Mr T for 
consideration. Each party was clear about its respective position. In the circumstances, I 
think its reasonable for me to come to a decision about the rate that is fair, leaving aside any 
technical legal arguments that might arise about the enforceability of the funding agreement. 
That reflects my role, which is to decide whats fair and reasonable, taking into account all 
the circumstances rather than applying the law strictly in the same way a court would. 
I think Soteria may have misunderstood our approach about choice of solicitors. The effect 
of Brown-Quinn & Anor v Equity Syndicate Management Ltd & Another [2012] EWCA Civ. 
1633 is that legal expenses insurers have the right to restrict what they would pay to a    
non-panel firm provided the remuneration isnt so low as to render the policyholders 
freedom of choice meaningless. 
Wed expect Soteria to show us there was a choice of more than one panel solicitor and/or 
non-panel solicitors who would be willing to act at the hourly rate set out in the policy. 
Soteria say there are hundreds of firms who would have represented Ms B at that rate. But 
they havent provided any evidence of that. So, they havent demonstrated that they gave 
her a meaningful choice of solicitors.
I was aware of Soterias point that the representative firm isnt a firm of solicitors, but a 
claims handling company and have taken that into account. They say the only solicitor in the 
company charges at £220 an hour. And they say it isnt appropriate to use the solicitor 
guideline rates to determine the appropriate hourly rate to charge here. They havent 
proposed an alternative. 
Im not aware of the qualifications of all the staff members involved in handling Ms Bs case. 
But the company involved specialises in employment law and was carrying out legal work for 
Ms B. So, for that reason and the points Ive set out previously, I think its reasonable to use 
the court guideline hourly rates as a basis for deciding a fair rate. 
Bearing the above in mind, I see no reason to change my mind about the outcome of this 
complaint. I still think it should be resolved on the basis set out in my second provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
Soteria should pay Ms Bs solicitors costs at the rate of £195.75 subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions of the LEI policy.My final decision
I uphold Ms B and Mr Ts complaint and direct Soteria Insurance Limited to pay Ms Bs 
solicitors costs at the rate of £195.75 subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the 
LEI policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman