DRN-2913195
The complaint
Mr A complains that Ageas Insurance Limited have treated him unfairly by declining his 
claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A had a motor insurance policy with Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) which he took out 
in late May for a car he purchased around a week earlier.
In early June 2020, Mr A went to visit his friend and whilst his car was parked it was involved 
in an incident with a third party. So Mr A contacted Ageas to make a claim under his policy.
Once Ageas started to investigate the claim, they became concerned with the information 
provided on the claim. And they felt that Mr A had breached the fraud/exaggerated claim 
condition of the policy. They said this was because:
The felt Mr As actions of buying a car with a purchase price of £35,000 unusual in 
the middle of a pandemic;
He said he purchased the car from a Mr Z who he didnt know but had been 
recommended to him - but he had no connection to him;
He said hed purchased the car using cash and money from a friend he was owed 
but then said this was paid from savings, community money and the sale of a 
previous vehicle;
Hed tried to insure the car for £50,000 then reduced this to £35,000 and twelve days 
after the policy had been taken out it was hit by a third-party whilst parked and the 
driver behaved strangely when CCTV footage was reviewed; 
There were discrepancies with Mr A, his friends and the witnesss version of events;
Several parties mentioned in the claim hadnt taken part in interviews; 
Mr A didnt think this was fair. He was unhappy with Ageass decision to decline his claim, so 
he made a complaint.
Ageas didnt uphold the complaint. They said there had been discrepancies in Mr As version 
of events about the vehicle purchase, and the witness details amongst other things. And 
because of this they didnt feel Mr As claim related to a genuine accident so they wouldnt 
be dealing with the claim and referred him to the general conditions and cancellation terms 
of the policy relating to fraudulent and exaggerated claims. 
Mr A didnt agree and asked this service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She said it wasnt her role to 
say if a fraudulent claim had taken place, but to see if Ageas had acted fairly when declining 
the claim. She said based on the discrepancies in information shed seen, she thought 
Ageas had sufficient evidence to justify declining Mr As claim.
Mr A didnt agree. He said he didnt accept the investigators view as his claim was genuine 
and wanted an ombudsman to review the complaint. So the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr A and Ageas have both provided detailed evidence about this complaint. Ive taken 
onboard all their points  although Im not going to respond to each point individually. 
Instead Ill address what I consider to be the crux of the complaint, which is whether Ageas 
have treated Mr A fairly and in line with the policy terms when declining his claim and voiding 
his policy. Where evidence is contradictory, I must reach my decision on a balance of 
probabilities  what I think is most likely to have happened given the evidence available and 
the wider circumstances. And I have come to my conclusions based on this. 
Mr A wants Ageas to pay his claim. To decide this, I need to look at whether Ageas acted 
fairly and reasonably when they used the general condition for fraud/exaggerated claims of 
the policy to decline Mr As claim. The condition says, If you, or anyone acting for you: make 
a claim which you or they know is false, fraudulent, false or exaggerated; or provide false or 
stolen documents to support a claim; We will not pay the claim and this insurance will end. It 
gives Ageas the right to decline the claim and cancel the policy if it has enough evidence this 
condition was breached. 
This is also noted in the schedule of insurance which says Failure to comply with a 
condition of your policy can result in a claim not being paid, or only part paid. The Insurer 
may also reject your claim or in certain circumstances void the policy as a whole. It is for 
Ageas to prove it is more likely than not, that the fraud condition was breached. So, as 
above, Ive considered all the information provided to me, to establish whether I think theyve 
shown this.
Ive watched the CCTV footage Mr A has provided and I can understand why Ageas felt the 
driver was behaving strangely. I say this because the third-party vehicle which damages 
Mr As car avoids the car parked in front of it and appears to intentionally steer into Mr As 
car and at an unusual trajectory on what appears to be a straight road. Im also persuaded 
by Ageass statement that they felt it was odd that there was CCTV recording directly 
opposite where Mr As car was parked, and the person whod given the CCTV evidence 
didnt want to be interviewed about it.
Ageas said they also had concerns that Mr As car was duel insured at the time of the loss. I 
recognise Mr A has disputed this and said the other insurer declined to offer him cover due 
to the value of the car and that they felt it had been modified. However Ive seen evidence 
from Ageas that shows at the time of the incident the car was still insured by both insurance 
companies. I acknowledge this may have been an error by the other insurer, however I think 
this would have caused Ageas some concerns as this differed from the information Mr A had 
told them. 
Another key issue Ageas raised was the purchase of the vehicle by Mr A. Mr A initially said 
he purchased the car from Mr Z  which is also the name shown on the sales receipt with an 
address in one borough  who he didnt know. However, when Ageas completed their 
checks, they identified this was an address linked to one of Mr As family members. Mr A 
then said hes purchased the car from his relative and hed got confused when asked about 
this due to the use of first and surnames. So I dont think it was unreasonable of Ageas to 
have concerns about who the car had been purchased from. Ive also seen Ageass call records which show initially Mr A said the person hed bought the 
car from had been recommended to him and hed paid £20,000 in cash followed by his friend 
paying the additional £15,000. However Ageas felt this was strange as there was no 
evidence of that amount of money being withdrawn from Mr As account. 
I acknowledge Mr A has said he uses cash for the majority of purchases  which isnt 
unreasonable. But I can understand why Ageas felt a cash purchase of this size would be 
unusual, as it didnt appear to have been withdrawn by Mr A from a financial institution so he 
could make the purchase in cash. When Mr A was asked the same question several days 
later, he then said the money had come from different sources. So I think Ageas acted 
reasonably in questioning both how the car was purchased and who was involved in the 
transaction.   
Ive looked at the evidence Ageas have reviewed and from looking at all the evidence 
together, I understand why Ageas had concerns about the circumstances of the incident. 
Throughout the claim process, Ive seen Mr As version of events hasnt been consistent. For 
example when and who spoke to the witness and took her details  as Mr As friend also 
gave a different statement about how these details were received. 
As I mentioned earlier, it isnt my role to tell a business how much weight they should place 
on the evidence available to them. I can only make a decision on whether or not I think they 
acted reasonably and in-line with the policy terms and conditions. And in this case, I think 
there was enough evidence for Ageas to believe the claim had been exaggerated and 
decline it based on fraud. So, Im satisfied Ageas acted fairly in how theyve dealt with Mr As 
claim.
I recognise that Mr A feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. But 
based on everything Ive seen, I cant say Ageas have done anything wrong. So, I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman