DRN-3345678
The complaint
Mrs K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plcs failure to respond to her contact attempts in 
relation to her mortgage application caused her to miss a deadline and to incur legal costs.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K visited a branch of HSBC in February 2020 to enquire about getting a 
mortgage on their unencumbered property for a home improvement project. They were given 
a decision in principal by the branch adviser and told they would need to complete their 
application before Mr Ks 75th birthday  15 July 2020  for him to be included on the 
mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs K needed some time to consider how much they needed to borrow, but 
attempted to contact the HSBC adviser, by email, on 18 June 2020 to make their application. 
They received no response and tried a further three times by email up to 10 July 2020 and, 
they say, several times to his mobile phone. They received no responses and say they also 
tried to contact HSBCs main switchboard but couldnt get through on the phone.
By the time Mr and Mrs K successfully made contact with HSBC, Mr K had passed his 75th 
birthday. But they still wanted to proceed with the application for the mortgage. To do so, the 
application could only go ahead in Mrs Ks name, and so they were required to remove Mr K 
from the property deeds. Mr and Mrs K say they incurred the following costs in doing so:
£294  Transfer of equity
£180  Removal of restriction
£330  Registration of declaration of trust
They also say theyll incur at least £474 when they add Mr K back on to the deeds at the end 
of the mortgage term.
HSBC says many branch staff were unable to work at the time in question because of the 
Covid pandemic and wouldnt have had access to their work mobile phones or emails. It 
says its mortgage adviser would have had an out of office message set, telling customers 
what they should do in his absence. But Mrs K says she didnt receive any responses at all 
to her emails to the advisor.
Mrs Ks mortgage application did complete in October 2020  later than she wanted and for 
an amount lower than she wanted.
HSBCs contact notes say Mrs K originally complained in July 2020  before completion of 
the application  and HSBC paid her £50 to cover the costs of the phone calls shes made. It 
sent its final response letter on 5 October 2020. It said its adviser would have had an out of 
office message set but is unable to explain why they were not received. It then focussed on 
a change in its policy, requiring Mrs K to show evidence of income which had added further 
delay  though after Mr Ks 75th birthday. About that, it said it added this further check as a 
result of the Covid pandemic and its commitment to lend responsibly. 
Dissatisfied with HSBCs response, Mrs K asked us to consider her complaint. Our 
investigator said he thought it more likely than not that HSBCs advisor hadnt set an out of 
office message. HSBC hasnt been able to show that its advisor did set a message and our 
investigator thought Mr and Mrs K would have followed the messages instructions had there 
been one. But our investigator acknowledged that HSBC couldnt have been prepared for 
the pandemic and it had had a substantial impact on both businesses and customers. So, he 
thought the fairest way to resolve the complaint was for HSBC to pay half of Mr and Mrs Ks 
costs associated with the removal of Mr K from the deeds  subject to proof of those costs.
HSBC agreed to pay half of the costs Mr and Mrs K had incurred, but not those to add Mr K 
back on to the deeds at the end of the mortgage. Mr and Mrs K said they would reluctantly 
agree but only if HSBC would pay half of the estimated costs to add Mr K back on to the 
deeds at the end of the mortgage. Our investigator asked HSBC to consider Mr and Mrs Ks 
request, but HSBC declined to change its offer.
As Mrs K did not agree with our investigators opinion, her complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mrs Ks complaint, Ive thought about whether and to what extent HSBC caused 
Mr and Mrs K to miss the deadline of Mr Ks 75th birthday and incur additional costs. And 
Ive thought about what that should mean in terms of a fair resolution to Mrs Ks complaint in 
the specific circumstances of her experience and the broader circumstances of the Covid 
pandemic.
Mr and Mrs K first contacted HSBC with the intention of proceeding with their mortgage 
application on 18 June 2020. That would have given HSBC nearly a whole month to 
complete the work required to start their mortgage. In ordinary circumstances, I think that 
was sufficient time and I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs K to have 
known the full impact of the Covid pandemic on HSBC and the way it was operating.
I also think HSBC couldnt have predicted the Covid pandemic or that it would be inundated 
with requests for payment holidays due to the resulting Government/Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) guidance about helping borrowers affected. So, HSBC was dealing with 
substantially more enquiries than before the pandemic while operating in a 
lockdown/homeworking environment. I think it would have taken some time to adjust to that.
HSBC says its branch advisors didnt have access to emails or their work mobile phones, but 
they did have out of office messages set telling customers what they should do. And it says 
the adviser Mr and Mrs K was trying to contact did the same. Ive thought about that and 
have come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ive seen no evidence the advisor set 
any kind of out of office message. And, its likely that, had the adviser done so,                  
Mr and Mrs K would have taken different action sooner than they did  probably the action 
outlined in the out of office message, had there been one. 
As I dont think its likely the advisor set an out of office message, that means I do think 
HSBC could have done more to inform Mr and Mrs K what they should do in the situation 
they found themselves in. But Ive also thought about whether Mr and Mrs K could have 
done more to move their application forward sooner. Ive said I think their first contact in 
June 2020 was probably soon enough. And I also think its reasonable that they didnt try 
something else  be that trying HSBCs main phone lines or even trying a different provider  when they didnt get a response after that first email. But soon after that, I think they should 
have tried something different, given the relatively small timeframe.
Mrs K has said they tried HSBCs main switchboard  hanging on for hours, sometimes 
having the line drop out completely after half an hour or so. Ive not seen evidence to show 
at what point they started doing that or how many times they tried, though I understand how 
frustrating that must have been. And while I dont know how long it would have actually 
taken to speak to HSBC that way, or whether waiting times varied throughout the day/week, 
I have thought about whether additional effort may have been worth it to mitigate the cost 
theyve incurred. But I dont think Mr and Mrs K would have known the full extent of the 
additional cost at that time and I think their efforts to progress the matter do sound 
reasonable.
Ive also thought about HSBCs change in criteria requiring Mrs K to obtain evidence of 
income from her employer. I understand that would have been new information to Mrs K and 
that it slowed the application process further. But I think its reasonable for HSBC to change 
its lending criteria and, more generally its appetite for risk in response to market and other 
conditions. In this case it was merely responding to the effects of the Covid pandemic on the 
stability of employment and I think thats a reasonable thing for a responsible lender to 
consider. I also dont think that delay had any impact on the substantial part of                    
Mr and Mrs Ks complaint  the delay resulting in the cost of removing Mr K from the deeds  
as Mr K had already passed his 75th birthday by then.
Overall, I think the circumstances of the Covid pandemic played a huge part in the delay and 
the cost to Mr and Mrs K resulting from that delay. I think HSBCs service could have been 
better in this instance and I think it has acknowledged that by offering to pay for half of the 
costs Mr and Mrs K has incurred. Importantly here, while I think the advisers out of office 
message may have pointed Mr and Mrs K in the right direction sooner, I cant say that would 
have resulted in a different outcome. 
Mrs K has said they incurred their costs through no fault of their own. But Im mindful of the 
fact that Mr and Mrs K was the party that wanted the application to proceed, not HSBC. So, 
to allow it to proceed, Mr and Mrs K chose to pay the costs of the additional work to remove 
Mr K from the deeds. Had the Covid pandemic not happened, its unlikely they would have 
incurred those costs. So, its the Covid pandemic that changed their situation more than 
HSBC.
Putting things right
Given what Ive said, I think HSBCs offer to pay 50% of Mr and Mrs Ks costs listed in the 
background section above is fair and I think its a reasonable way to resolve this complaint. 
So, it should pay them:
£147 in respect of transfer of equity
£90 in respect of removal of restriction
£165 in respect of registration of declaration of trust
£402 in total
However, I dont think HSBC should pay half the cost of adding Mr K back on to the deeds at 
the end of the mortgage. Thats because it may  due to any number of unforeseeable 
circumstances  never become necessary to add Mr K back onto the deeds. Or                  
Mr and Mrs K may simply choose not to in the absence of necessity.My final decision
My final decision is I partially uphold Mrs Ks complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman