DRN-3540265
The complaint
Ms Z is complaining that IG Markets Limited (IG) upgraded her contract for difference (CFD) 
trading account to a professional trader account, increasing the risk she was exposed to and 
increasing her losses. Shes also complaining about how IG handled her data subject access 
request (DSAR). 
What happened
Ms Z held a CFD account with IG. Shed been classified as a retail client when she opened 
the account but received emails from IG in December 2017 offering her an upgrade to 
professional status. IG explained they were offering the upgrade because they believed 
margins might increase significantly for retail clients but professional clients wouldnt be 
affected. Ms Z decided to apply for professional elective status  and IG approved this on 11 
June 2018.
Towards the end of 2020, Ms Z asked IG to send her a copy of all the data they held about 
her. Over the course of the next couple of months, she chased IG repeatedly, and explained 
that she wanted to understand how theyd decided to approve her as a professional trader. 
IG set up two complaints on Ms Zs behalf  one about the DSAR, and one about her 
professional trader application. 
Ms Z and IG exchanged lengthy correspondence about Ms Zs professional trader 
application and Ms Z concluded that IG hadnt followed the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) rules which dictate what businesses must do when approving a customer as a 
professional trader. IGs final response was that they had done enough  but Ms Z continued 
to disagree so she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into things. She said Ms Zs complaint about the DSAR would be 
better dealt with by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Then she went through the 
FCAs rules about upgrading clients and came to the conclusion that IG shouldnt have 
classified Ms Z as a professional client. She said IG should refund to Ms Z the difference 
between the losses made as a professional client and the losses she would have made if her 
account hadnt been upgraded.
Ms Z agreed with our investigators assessment that IG hadnt complied with the rules but 
she didnt with the redress  she thought IG should refund all her losses since the account 
had been upgraded. She said she wouldnt have carried on trading if they hadnt upgraded 
her account and offered her higher leverage.
IG however, didnt agree. In their responses to our investigators view they said they 
remained of the view that Ms Z met the requirements of the quantitative test set by the FCA. 
They asked for an ombudsmans decision  so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
DSAR
As our investigator set out in her view, if Ms Z thinks IG has breached the rules around 
DSARs she needs to take this up with the ICO. Ms Z hasnt commented further on this 
aspect of the complaint and its clear her main issue is with IG approving her application to 
have her account upgraded. Ive seen no evidence that IG didnt treat Ms Z fairly when 
dealing with her DSAR. So Ive focussed the rest of this decision on the re-categorisation. 
FCA requirements
Because upgrading from retail to professional status has a significant impact on the level of 
protection given to a client, the FCA has strict rules about how clients are categorised. 
Theyre set out in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS), section 3.5. COBS 3.5.3R 
sets out three distinct tests, all of which needed to be met for Ms Z to be categorised as a 
professional client. In my decision Ive just looked at the second part, known as the 
quantitative test. Ive concluded that Ms Z didnt meet the requirements of that test  so I 
dont need to consider the rest of the paragraph 3.5.3R. 
The quantitative test requires that two of the following three criteria are satisfied:
(a) the client has carried out transactions, in significant size, on the relevant market at an 
average frequency of 10 per quarter over the previous four quarters;
(b) the size of the client's financial instrument portfolio, defined as including cash deposits 
and financial instruments, exceeds EUR 500,000;
(c) the client works or has worked in the financial sector for at least one year in a 
professional position, which requires knowledge of the transactions or services 
envisaged
In addition, COBS 3.5.6R requires that firms take all reasonable steps to ensure that the 
client requesting to be treated as an elective professional client satisfies the  relevant 
quantitative test. So its not enough for a firm to accept a clients declaration or to make 
assumptions.
IG decided that in Ms Zs case, parts (a) and (c) were satisfied. So I wont comment on part 
(b).
Part (a)  frequency and size of transactions
IG said that although Ms Z hadnt traded in all of the four quarters leading up to her 
application shed held her account for several years and had placed well over a thousand 
trades of a significant size. So they were comfortable that shed carried out transactions at 
an average frequency of over ten per quarter over the previous four quarters.
I can understand IGs perspective. Looking at Ms Zs trading history and using a simple 
mathematical average over the year leading up to June 2018 does result in an average of 
more than 10 significant trades per quarter.
But the wording of COBS 3.5.3 refers specifically to four quarters rather than a year. And 
this seems significant to me. Ms Zs trading history shows no transactions at all between 11 June 2017 and 11 September 2017  the first of the relevant four quarters. So I looked at the 
additional guidance available from the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA). 
Their Questions and Answers document includes the following:
Question 5 [Last update: 25 May 2018] 
How should an investment firm assess whether a private individual client meets the 
conditions under the first limb  where such investor has been trading on the relevant 
market for less than a year? 
Answer 5 
Clients who have been trading on the relevant market for less than a year cannot fulfill the 
conditions imposed by the first limb .... This is because, to assess whether a client meets 
such conditions, investment firms shall review the clients trading history on the relevant 
market over the past four quarters. For the avoidance of doubt, a lack of one-year trading 
history on the relevant market does not prevent clients from meeting the conditions set 
out in limbs two and three...
I appreciate this question and answer doesnt exactly fit Ms Zs circumstances  she had 
traded for more than a year. But when I looked more closely at Ms Zs trading history, I saw 
that thered only been five trades before 11 June 2017, and the last of these had taken place 
in August 2016. And I noted that the total amount Ms Z had deposited was only £200. With 
such a small level of trading quite some time in the past, I think its reasonable to apply this 
question and answer to Ms Z and treat her as if shed been trading for less than a year.
The answer is quite clear that clients trading for less than a year cant meet the condition  
because they havent been trading throughout the past four quarters. Within their 
submissions, IG also said they assumed Ms Z had been trading elsewhere, as well as with 
IG. But Ms Z told us IGs platform was the only one shed ever traded on. 
On that basis, Ive concluded IG didnt do enough to determine whether Ms Z passed this 
aspect of the quantitative test. And if theyd investigated further, theyd have likely found that 
Ms Z had no other trading accounts and therefore doesnt satisfy part (a) of the quantitative 
test.
Part (c)  Ms Zs work
Theres no dispute that Ms Z worked in the financial sector for at least one year. In an email 
to IG, she wrote: 
I have been working in financial industry since 2008. My previous & current employers are 
futures and options brokers. I have gain knowledge of derivatives during my daily work. The 
products I get exposure with include, commodities futures and options and forex.
What isnt completely clear is whether Ms Z had worked in a professional position for at 
least a year. The ESMA question and answers again give some clarity here. Answer 3 says 
a firm: must ensure that the position was professional in nature.
Ms Z had told IG she was an accounts executive and that this had given her knowledge 
and understanding of derivative products. IG relied on this and Ms Zs statement above to 
determine that Ms Z met the criteria in part (c). Im not persuaded that IG did enough to 
ensure that Ms Zs position was professional in nature. I dont need to make a finding on whether or not Ms Z should have passed part (c)  
because she should have failed part (a) and theres no suggestion that Ms Z would have 
passed part (b).
Putting things right
Ms Z says she wouldnt have traded at all without the additional leverage available from 
being a professional client. But shed made a large number of trades, at an overall profit, 
before her account was upgraded, so Im not persuaded by her statement. I think she would 
have continued to trade.
IG should not have upgraded Ms Zs account. So they should calculate the total profit or loss 
shed have made if shed made the same trades but within the limitations of a retail account. 
They should then refund to Ms Z any difference between that figure and the losses Ms Z did 
make after the account was upgraded.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Zs complaint. IG Markets Limited (IG) need to 
calculate the profit or loss shed have made as a retail client and refund her any difference 
between that figure and the losses she made as a professional client. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman