DRN-1994407
The complaint
Mr P complains about a secured loan he took out in 2006 with Swift Advances Plc. He says
he shouldnt have been allowed to take the loan, and is unhappy with how hes been treated
whilst hes had financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr P applied for this secured loan through an independent mortgage broker. He borrowed
around £80,000 over a 25-year term. The loan completed on 12 April 2006 and it has a
variable rate of interest.
Mr P has made various complaints over the years about the loan and Swift Advances issued 
final response letters each time; from here on Ill refer to these as the earlier final response 
letters. Mr P didnt refer any of the earlier final response letters to this service. The latest 
complaint was answered by Swift Advances on 17 July 2019.
Mr Ps latest complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He said most of the 
complaint points hadnt been raised within the time limits allowed in our rules, and also 
mentioned that we could only consider events between 1 April 2014 and 20 March 2016 in 
any event as that was the only period that Swift Advances was within our jurisdiction for 
loans like this.
In terms of the parts of the complaint we can consider, the investigator said he thought 
Swift Advances had treated Mr P fairly and so didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr P didnt agree and so earlier this month I issued a decision setting out what we could  
and couldnt  consider. In that I agreed with our investigator that our power to consider this 
complaint is limited to events that occurred between 1 April 2014 and 20 March 2016 that 
were dealt with in the 17 July 2019 final response letter. I said a decision would follow on the 
merits of the part of the complaint we could consider. I now issue that decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mr P. But although Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach the right outcome.
The only thing I can consider is whether Swift Advances treated Mr P fairly between 
1 April 2014 and 20 March 2016 (the time period). I cant consider the fees that were 
charged to the account or the interest rate (as those were dealt with in the earlier final 
response letters and are therefore time-barred). I also cant consider the balance of the 
account and the fact it had increased (or only decreased by a small amount) as that was 
also dealt with in the earlier final response letters.
So, in effect, all Im looking at is how Swift Advances reacted to any requests from Mr P for 
help in the time period, and whether any action it took was fair.
Having reviewed all the contact notes for the time period I can see Mr P asked for the 
interest to be completely frozen. Whilst I can understand why hed want that, it was a very 
large concession he was asking for. In effect, he was asking for his loan to be interest-free 
for an indefinite period as its also clear from the notes that this was an ongoing issue with 
no set date for things to improve. Mr Ps loan had gone into arrears in August 2006 and 
remained that way on and off until long after the time period. 
Mr P provided his income and expenditure information to Swift Advances and that showed 
that not only could he afford the loan payments, but that he had surplus income available on 
top of that. He also made various promises to pay sums in excess of the contractual loan 
monthly payments, which he stuck to for the most part.
Most of the issues here seemed to be that Mr Ps contracts were short-lived and sporadic. 
As a self-employed person that, unfortunately, can be an issue. But it makes forbearance 
difficult, as what could be affordable one month, might not be the next. I can see when Mr P 
told Swift Advances that he was waiting on pay, or was due to shortly start a new contract, 
that it agreed to review things then. It cancelled field agent visits and litigation on the same 
basis. It seems Swift Advances was willing to work with Mr P to try to improve things, but 
that only has to go so far. 
The loan that Mr P took out was interest-bearing and thats the agreement he signed up to. 
Whilst the freezing of interest is an option available to lenders it wouldnt have been the right 
thing here. Whilst Mr P might want to not pay any interest  as would every customer, Im 
sure  we must also consider whats fair to the lender. Would it be fair for a lender to receive 
no interest for an indefinite period on money it has lent (and that is costing it to lend) where 
the income and affordability information provided by the customer shows they can afford the 
payments (including interest)?
I understand Mr P would have preferred that Swift Advances didnt keep contacting him, 
especially when he was working abroad and/or on rest periods so trying to sleep. But equally 
I have to keep in mind that Mr P wasnt keeping to the contract he entered into and wasnt 
proactively contacting Swift if his payments were going to be late. If Mr P had got in contact 
with Swift Advances when his payments werent going to be made in line with the 
arrangements hed entered into at various times, then Swift Advances wouldnt have needed 
to contact him. Alternatively Mr P could have nominated his wife to act on his behalf whilst 
he wasnt around, and given Swift Advances permission to discuss things with her instead.
Swift Advances didnt have to freeze the interest when the information Mr P provided 
showed he had the ability to meet his payments and having considered everything I dont 
think Swift Advances treated Mr P unfairly between 1 April 2014 and 20 March 2016 which is 
all Im able to consider. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman