DRN-3370257
The complaint
Mr D complains about the end date under an income protection scheme with Unum Ltd. 
What happened
Mr D was covered under his former employers group income protection scheme with an 
insurer (that Ill call Insurer Z). He says the end date under that policy was age 65.
In 2016, Mr Ds former employer chose to end the scheme with Insurer Z, and take out a 
new scheme with Unum. 
Mr Ds former employer later went into liquidation. As Mr D had a claim in payment at the 
time, this continued to be paid to him by Unum. 
Then in 2021, Mr D became aware that his claim would end when he reached age 60, and 
not age 65 as hed been expecting. Unum did then end the claim when Mr D reached age 
60. Unhappy with this (as well as Unums calculations of his benefit), Mr D brought a 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Unum had been 
entitled to end the claim when Mr D reached age 60, and didnt think Unum had led Mr D to 
believe the end date would be when he reached age 65. Our investigator also didnt Unum 
had made any errors with Mr Ds benefit calculations. 
Mr D didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds former employer was the policyholder, and they chose to end the scheme with 
Insurer Z and take out a new scheme with Unum. 
The policy schedule confirms the end date is the members 60th birthday. This was a term 
that Mr Ds former employer (as the policyholder) chose/agreed to. 
Mr D says the information provided to him by his former employer led him to believe the 
scheme would continue until his normal retirement age of 65. However, this information 
wasnt provided by Unum. I therefore dont find that Unum did anything wrong here. It was 
entitled to end the claim when Mr D reached age 60.
Mr D wants this service to request the contract that was arranged between his former 
employer and Unum. However, the policy terms and conditions and the policy schedule form 
the contract. If Mr D means he wants me to request evidence of any discussions that took 
place between his former employer and Unum before the scheme went into force, I dont 
require sight of this information (even if Unum still had it). The policy schedule and policy 
terms reflect what was arranged between Mr Ds former employer and Unum, and Im 
satisfied Unum was required to settle the claim based on the information in these 
documents.
The policy schedule explains the basic benefit is 75% of salary less £5,300. This deduction 
applied to all claims under the scheme. This was arranged between Unum and Mr Ds 
former employer, so I cant comment on this. But Im satisfied that Unum was entitled to 
deduct this figure, as the policy schedule allows it to do so.
Mr D is also unhappy that he didnt have additional benefit for pension contributions. The 
policy terms say an additional benefit can be taken out to cover the contributions employees 
make to the pension scheme. However, Mr Ds former employer chose not to include this 
option (as it isnt included in the policy schedule). I therefore agree with our investigator that 
Unum didnt need to take into account pensions contributions.
Whilst I appreciate that Mr D was disappointed to learn that his cover would end when he 
reached age 60, I dont find that Unum did anything wrong here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman