DRN-3954959
The complaint
X has complained about the settlement Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) has 
offered following a claim he made on his commercial vehicle policy. 
What happened
X was involved in an incident with a third party, and he submitted a claim on his commercial 
vehicle policy for repairs. But an issue arose during the repair process, where Xs vehicle 
was left outside unrepaired and exposed to the elements. During this time the vehicle 
suffered water ingress, and X complained.
After a long and protracted discussion between both parties, Haven agreed to deal with the 
claim as a constructive total loss. Haven valued the vehicle at £37,970. But X said this 
valuation was too low. So, Haven said X should bring the complaint to this service. It said 
that if this service thought the valuation was too low it would pay the difference between 
£37,970 and the valuation this service placed on the vehicle. Haven also said it then would 
sell the vehicle, and if it fetched a higher value, it would also pay X the difference. 
So, X submitted a complaint to this service to find a fair valuation. Haven, subsequently paid 
X £37,970 as an interim payment. But X refused to pass over the documentation or spare 
key to Haven as he says he wants the valuation resolved first. Haven say this has made 
things very difficult, as it cant sell the vehicle, which would help provide clarity on its value. 
An investigator reviewed the complaint. The investigator has suggested that £46,000 (excl 
VAT) is a fair valuation for this vehicle. But Haven doesnt agree. It says:
1. £46,000 is too high and not a reflection of the market value for this vehicle as per the 
trade guides.
2. It should never have agreed to pay a constructive total loss as it doesnt feel that the 
original argument about the invalidated warranties now stands up to scrutiny.   
The complaint is now with me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Before I start, I want to set out clearly what I will be dealing with in this final decision.
The final response submitted with this complaint sets out the two options that Haven made 
available to X. The options were: 
1. The vehicle repaired using correct repair methods, and returned to X
or
2. Accept an offer of a constructive total loss where X receives the pre-accident value 
(as per the conditions set out above) of the vehicle upon receipt of its V5, proof of 
purchase and finance settlement figure. Once Haven sells the vehicle, any 
overpayment on the valuation will be paid to X. 
When our investigator spoke to X, he confirmed that his complaint was solely about the 
valuation Haven has placed on his vehicle. I note that Haven has made an interim payment 
to X and I also note that hes refusing to handover any documentation until the valuation is 
clarified. Its very clear that in getting to this point a number of other issues arose. And I note 
that in response to the investigators view, Haven have reintroduced some previous issues 
such as the alleged invalidated warranty.
But I will not be dealing with these issues in this final decision. The complaint about the 
valuation has been front and centre throughout this whole complaint process. Haven has 
now revisited the warranty validation scenario with supporting evidence. And whereas I 
appreciate Havens efforts to bring this issue to a close, I cant now start to investigate a part 
of the complaint, that had fallen away months ago. I can see how it forms part of what 
happened. But Haven had months to obtain its supporting evidence but didnt do so. So, 
well move onto placing a fair value on this vehicle so Haven can complete its offer of a 
constructive total loss. 
Haven agreed to pay for this claim as a constructive total loss. As such, under the terms of 
the policy it will pay the market value. This is defined as The cost of replacing Your Vehicle 
with one of similar make, model and specification, taking into account the age, mileage and 
condition of Your Vehicle. To determine the Market Value, We will typically request the 
advice of an engineer and refer to guides and any other relevant sources
Our approach to vehicle valuations is set out here https://www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/complaints-can-help/insurance/motor-insurance/vehicle-
valuations-write-offs. We use the trade guides to guide us. But as per the market value term 
in Havens policy, we will also consider information from other relevant sources. Using this 
approach our investigator has suggested that £46,000 (excl VAT) is a fair valuation for this 
vehicle. 
Haven initially agreed. But then Haven suggested that one of the valuations wed used was 
an outlier, and it reiterated that its own valuation of £37,970 is actually closer to the true 
market value of this vehicle, as per the trade guides. 
Our approach is set out so we can arrive at a fair value using the data from the trade guides 
alongside all other evidence. We utilise as many trade guides as we can and use the values 
provided. If the values vary greatly, we might think its reasonable to ignore any outlying 
valuation. But the key is that we use an approach that feels fair. So, if theres varying 
valuations presented, we dont just look at the guides and decide. Wed look at everything 
thats been provided on the file, engineers comments, trade guides, and even 
advertisements, to ensure the consumer is getting a fair valuation for the vehicle.
In this specific case X provided valuations from numerous sources. He went to two main 
dealers and provided information on what the vehicle had cost him to purchase, only a few 
months previously. X also set out information on a finance agreement he had, and he 
provided details of what the vehicle would cost now, in a heightened post-covid market. And 
when you bring all this supporting evidence into the equation, the valuation Haven suggests 
is an outlier, actually isnt. 
Using all the information we have available the range of valuations is £37k to £55k. What I 
found particularly persuasive is that one particular trade guide included a good sample of similar vehicles both advertised and sold recently in the UK. Most of these vehicles, with 
similar below average mileage were selling for £44k to £47k (excl VAT). Because of this, and 
taking all the evidence provided into account, I think the valuation put forward by our 
investigator of £46,000 (excl VAT) is fair and reasonable. 
So, as X has already accepted an interim payment, Haven should now pay him the 
difference between the interim payment and £46,000. X needs to pass over all 
documentation and keys from the old vehicle to Haven. When Haven sells the vehicle, it 
should let X know, and if it sells for in excess of £46,000, Haven needs to pay any 
overpayment to X as it has already agreed. 
Please note, I wont be asking Haven to add interest to any payments it makes. I understand 
there was a difference of opinion here. But it would be unfair to ask Haven to pay interest, 
when the options it put forward were fair and wouldve allowed X the chance to recoup his 
losses sooner. The same follows for compensation. I agree Haven made an error. But it 
sought to resolve the issue by putting forward the option of a constructive total loss. This and 
other options put forward wouldve allowed X to settle his finance and move on, whilst still 
making a complaint to our service. I know X feels Havens decisions have made him lose 
out, in particular on a recent deal he had on the table. But Haven didnt delay things 
unnecessarily. The option to request a final decision is open to both parties, and Haven only 
exercised its right to do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Haven Insurance Company Limited 
to:
Pay X the difference between the interim payment its already paid and a final 
settlement of £46,000. X will then be required to hand over all documentation and 
spare keys to Haven. Haven, once the vehicle is sold needs to let X know the selling 
price and pay any overpayment to X. 
Please note, no interest or compensation is payable on any of these amounts for the 
reasons Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman