DRN-3158936
The complaint
Mr C complains U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Home Insurance (UKI) has 
unfairly declined a claim hes made on his contents insurance policy.
 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary of 
what happened.
Mr C has a buildings and contents insurance policy underwritten by UKI.
He made a claim on the policy for a watch that was lost while he was moving home. 
UKI declined the claim as Mr C didnt have any documents proving ownership or 
purchase of the item.
Mr C was unhappy with the declination and a phone call he had with one of UKIs 
representatives, so he complained. 
UKI maintained its position and said its representative had handled the call with Mr C 
in a professional manner. 
Mr C brought his complaint to this Service but our Investigator didnt uphold it. Mr C 
asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making a claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on the consumer to show 
the claim is covered by the policy.
For a claim to be successful, the policyholder has to provide proof they owned the 
item theyre claiming for.
This is confirmed in the terms of Mr Cs policy:
For any claim you must:
Give us any relevant information and evidence that we ask for, including proof 
of ownership
Mr C says his father gave him the watch and he had no way of proving ownership. 
He said hed previously had the box the watch was sold in but had thrown this away 
as he had no intention of selling it.
In support of his ownership of the watch, Mr C provided a picture of him wearing it. 
But the picture he provided and the description hed given UKI previously, when first 
making the claim, differed significantly. 
UKIs jewellery expert concluded the watch in the picture and the watch Mr C had 
described bore no resemblance to each other and were likely two completely 
different models of watch with significantly different values.
Given the lack of a receipt, guarantee, or any other documentation or the original 
box, and the discrepancy between the watch Mr C said he had lost and the one in the 
picture hed provided, Im satisfied UKI acted fairly in saying he hadnt met the policy 
claim condition of proving ownership. It follows I think UKI acted fairly when it 
declined to cover the claim. 
Ive listened carefully to the call Mr C wasnt happy with. And having done so, Im 
satisfied UKIs representative acted professionally throughout and asked reasonable 
questions in order to validate the claim. 
I wont be asking UKI to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman