DRN-3044136
The complaint
Mr B has complained about his taxi insurer Society of Lloyd's (SOL) because when he had 
an accident it tried to charge him an additional excess.
What happened
Mr B had an accident on a Friday. On Sunday he tried to call to report the claim, but the 
phone lines were closed. He called the same number again on Monday and was able to 
speak to SOL. He was given the option of completing a claim form, this was duly sent to him 
and returned. SOL accepted the claim. But when it tried to arrange with Mr B to undertake 
repairs, it told him he had to pay a total excess of £850  this being the standard £350 
excess and a further £500 excess applied because the claim was reported more than 
48 hours after the incident. 
Mr B was unhappy and complained. But he was able to use the vehicle in the meantime. 
SOL felt it had done nothing wrong  it noted that Mr Bs first call had been to his broker (its 
own phone lines had been open) and it felt its policy terms allowing the extra excess were 
clear. Mr B complained to us.
Our investigator noted the terms and that Mr B had called a different number to that set out 
in the policy documents. He accepted that on a strict consideration of the policy terms, SOL 
was correct that it could apply the extra excess. However, he felt that to do so here was 
likely unfair as SOL hadnt shown that Mr Bs failure to notify it within 48 hours had 
prejudiced its position in any way. He said it should proceed with the claim only charging the 
£350 excess.
SOL disagreed with the findings. It noted previous investigators at this service had found in 
its favour in similar complaints. It said it was far from clear that Mr Bs late notification hadnt 
had an effect on the claim. And, regardless, it should be allowed to rely on a clearly stated 
policy term. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am considering this complaint for Mr B. It wouldnt be right for me to comment on other 
cases SOL has had considered by this service under this complaint heading. But I do note 
those cases didnt progress to be considered by an ombudsman. And Id add that each case 
is judged on its own merits. So that can sometimes mean that different outcomes can be 
reached for cases even where they appear to have similar facts at the heart of them.
I know SOL feels it should be able to rely on a clearly stated policy term. But SOL is aware 
that this service, when considering complaints, doesnt just consider whether a term exists 
and has been clearly expressed. We also think about whether, in the specific circumstances 
of the case before us, it is fair and reasonable for the insurer to rely on that term.
Here the term in question is, in my view, quite a punitive one. It has significant repercussions 
for the policyholder if they dont take action within a very strict timescale. So I think 
something like that actually needs to be very clearly highlighted and drawn to the 
policyholders attention. But, in any event, it seems unfair to me for SOL to be able to rely on 
such a technicality in order to reduce its outlay for Mr Bs claim. 
I think if SOL had shown us that a late notification, in Mr Bs case, had caused its costs to 
increase, prejudiced its position in some way or materially changed the claim; then I might 
be satisfied that the application of the extra excess was fair. But SOL hasnt done that here. 
And it isnt enough for it to say we cant be sure that the late notification has not affected the 
claim. If it wants to rely on this term to more than double the excess amount payable by Mr B 
then it has to positively show its been affected by his breaching the 48 hour time limit for 
notifying it of the claim. It hasnt done that. 
In my view, if SOL wanted to penalise Mr B for contacting it outside of 48 hours, it would 
have to show me really good evidence that it was fair for it to do so. It hasnt. So, if Mr B 
accepts my final decision, it cant continue to demand payment of the further £500 from him 
in order to allow his claim to progress. 
Putting things right
I require SOL to progress Mr Bs claim whilst only charging him the £350 standard excess 
sum detailed on the policy schedule. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Society of Lloyds to comply with the redress set out above 
at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman