DRN-3129589
The complaint
Mr A complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited avoided his life and 
critical illness assurance policy and refused his claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
On 6 January 2020 Mr A applied for life and critical illness cover with Legal and General. 
The application was for £200,000 of cover over a five-year term. When considering the 
application, Legal and General sought a GP report which they received on 10 January 2020. 
They then accepted the policy application on the same day. 
Mr A contacted Legal and General on 20 January 2020 to make a claim under the policy 
following a cancer diagnosis. This was declined by Legal and General and, in short, they 
said:
Mr As health history isnt consistent with what he told them when he applied for 
cover. In particular, he said no to questions about experiencing unexplained 
bleeding and weight loss in the last 3 months, and having symptoms which you 
intended to see your doctor about.
They referenced Mr As medical history which included:
oPresenting symptoms of diarrhoea in August 2018 to his GP with a referral to 
a gastroenterologist.
oA telephone conversation on 4 April 2019 where Mr A told his GP hed been 
experiencing loose stool for six months due to anxiety. The GP explained to 
Mr A the need to exclude cancer and stressed the importance of not leaving 
something if undiagnosed.  
oMr A called the GP surgery on 26 November 2019 enquiring about what tests 
were carried out in 2018 and whether they were to check for bowel cancer. 
They advised the tests were not looking for cancer and only checked for 
infection. An appointment was booked with a GP and Mr A was reviewed on 
29 November 2019 in which he reported his symptoms had resolved and that 
he was fit and well. 
oHe called the GP surgery on 6 and 7 January 2020 demanding an immediate 
appointment with the GP. Mr A wouldnt disclose to the appointments line 
what the problem or the reasons were for the appointment request. 
oMr A was seen by a private GP on 14 January 2020. The records show that 
Mr A had reported being unwell for eight weeks with symptoms of lethargy, 
fresh blood and pain when he open his bowels as well as a loss of appetite 
and weight. A JACCOL examination was carried out and the private GP 
referred Mr A for further investigations. 
oMr A being seen by a consultant gastroenterologist on 16 January 2020 
where he underwent an MRI and sigmoidoscopy with a biopsy taken. The 
appearances were reported as being consistent with a malignancy and a 
diagnosis of cancer was subsequently confirmed by pathology.
They were satisfied Mr A had experienced symptoms of a change in bowel habit, 
rectal bleeding, lethargy and weight loss for a number of weeks when he applied for 
cover. They were also satisfied Mr A was aware of the symptoms which is why he 
demonstrated such urgency on 6 January 2020 to get an appointment with the GP.
They didnt accept Mr As explanation that the consultation notes from 14 January 
2020 were wrong and that hed only had symptoms for two days prior to applying. 
The doctor recording the information had no reason or motivation for recording it 
incorrectly.
At the time the symptoms were recorded in Mr As records, an eight-week history 
would go back to the middle of November 2019 when he first contacted the GP 
surgery to query what the previous investigations were looking for. And when Mr A 
contacted the surgery trying to get a GP appointment on 6 January 2020 the 
symptoms were still present. They believed that the private GP consultation on 14 
January 2020 was recorded accurately  which prompted the examination and the 
immediate decision to refer to gastroenterology. 
Had they known Mr As actual health history they wouldnt have offered cover. They 
think the facts show Mr A must have known the answers he gave were wrong. And 
their application process makes it clear this information was relevant to them. In 
these circumstances, the recognised insurance practice is to cancel a policy from 
when it started. 
They avoided the policy from when it started and wouldnt pay the claim.  
A complaint was raised but Legal and General didnt change their position. In addition to the 
above points, Legal and General added the following:
As a financial adviser, Mr A wouldve an extensive knowledge about the duty of 
disclosure and the importance of declaring accurate answers to application 
questions. 
They were unable to offer terms immediately because Mr As age and the sum 
assured took him over their underwriting threshold. And so, they needed to obtain a 
GP report. Mr A enquired whether the requirement for a GP report could be avoided 
by reducing the sum assured or if he completed a declaration of health instead. Legal 
and General maintained their position of wanting a GP report. They consider Mr As 
attempts to avoid a GP report as a strong indicator they would find out about his 
medical history  thereby affecting the underwriting outcome. 
Upon receiving the GP report, there was an oversight on their part and they didnt 
review the full report. Because of this, they accepted the policy on standard terms. 
Mr A applied to another insurer, on the same day, for the same amount of life cover 
and also tried to avoid a GP report being obtained. Again, Mr A didnt disclose any 
medical information to the other insurer as part of the application process and theyve 
also declined the claim due to misrepresentation. 
Applying to two insurers for identical sum assured amounts on the same day and 
trying to avoid both companies obtaining a GP report is a red flag. 
Where a misrepresentation is found, they follow The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) and they classified it as 
deliberate. Therefore, they declined the claim and cancelled the policy from outset. 
And they do not refund premiums when they feel the misrepresentation is so obvious. 
As Mr A remained dissatisfied, he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought Legal and General had acted fairly. He noted that, when 
considering whether to offer terms, Legal and General assessed Mr As medical history by 
obtaining the GP report. But, they wouldnt have been aware of the 14 January 2020 
consultation in which its recorded Mr A had been experiencing symptoms for eight weeks  and so within the three months prior to the application and the relevant time period of the 
question asked by Legal and General. Our investigator felt it was reasonable for Legal and 
General to take this information into account. 
Although Mr A disputes the 14 January 2020 consultation records, our investigator thought 
he misrepresented his health when answering the application question(s) as he considered 
Mr A wouldve been aware of his symptoms at the time. Our investigator explained that 
Legal and General had provided their underwriting criteria which showed, if Mr A had 
answered the question correctly, they wouldnt have offered cover at that time. Our 
investigator was satisfied Legal and General was entitled to classify the misrepresentation 
as deliberate and, in line with CIDRA, they had applied the appropriate remedy by avoiding 
the policy, refusing the claim and retaining the premiums. 
M A disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
Before I go on to explain the reasons for the decision Ive reached, I want to acknowledge 
Mr As request for a telephone conversation. Ive given this careful consideration but, while I 
appreciate the importance of this matter to him, I dont think a conversation is necessary for 
me to reach a fair outcome here. Im satisfied both parties have provided me with enough 
information to be able to make a final decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Mr As diagnosis and I dont underestimate how difficult a time this must 
be for him. But, what I must consider here is whether Legal and General acted fairly and 
reasonably by avoiding the policy and refusing the claim. Having carefully thought about this, 
and for the reasons Ill explain, I think they have. 
The relevant law in this case is CIDRA. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the 
insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - 
a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to 
show it wouldve offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt 
made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Legal and General thinks Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when answering the following question:
Apart from anything youve already told us about in the application, do you have any 
medical condition or symptom that:

During the last 3 months have you had any of the following?
- unexplained bleeding, weight loss, lump or growth
- unexplained changes with walking, movement or mobility, numbness or tingling, 
mental functioning, or changes to your vision
- mole or freckle thats bled or changed in appearance
- a cough thats lasted for 3 weeks or more- any other symptom that you may seek a health professional about for the first time.
Legal and General think Mr M had been experiencing symptoms of a change in bowel habit, 
rectal bleeding, lethargy and weight loss for a number of weeks when he applied for cover. 
And that he was intending to seek a health professional about these symptoms at that time, 
which they consider is demonstrated by his urgency to get an appointment with his GP on 
6 January 2020. So, Legal and General think Mr A shouldve answered yes to this question 
 instead of no.
Ive firstly considered the question Mr A was asked. And I think it was both clear and 
specific. This is because Legal and General gave Mr A a clear timeframe (three months) for 
disclosing any of the listed symptoms, or any other symptom that he may seek a health 
professional about for the first time. So, I think Mr A ought to have understood what was 
expected of him when answering the question. And that this information was relevant to 
Legal and General.  
Mr A disputes the 14 January 2020 consultant records. He says he wasnt symptomatic at 
the time he applied for cover and that his symptoms only developed a couple days, not eight 
weeks, before he met with the private GP. Mr A says no weight loss was suffered and he 
suggests the records could be wrong due to the consultation only lasting about 30 seconds. 
And that the referral letter was written by a different doctor than the one he saw. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr A has said. But having done so, and after considering all 
the evidence available to me, I agree with Legal and General that Mr A mispresented his 
health when answering the above question. Let me explain why.
The private GPs medical records for Mr A show that he contacted them the day after the 
consultation, on 15 January 2020, to dispute the accuracy of the medical history that had 
been recorded. Subsequent medical letters from Mr As treating consultants/specialists, 
following the GP referral, make similar reference to the symptoms presenting themselves 
post application. For example, a letter dated 18 January 2020 refers to a one week history 
of constipation with difficulty in evacuation followed rectal bleeding.
This is supportive of Mr As claim that his symptoms only arose post application. However, I 
think it is important to take into account that the letters also say:
His normal bowel movements used to be once or twice a day, usually satisfactory 
evacuation, he would usually spend seven to 10 minutes on the toilet seat and would 
never have had blood or melena in his stools in the past.
And;
He has no medical history of note, he has had two ACL repairs on each of his knees 
10 years apart, the last one 10 years agohe has not had any medical illnesses of 
note and is on no regular medication.
The above is at odds with Mr As medical history as, in August 2018, Mr A had presented 
symptoms of diarrhoea to his GP and was referred to a gastroenterologist. And he also told 
his GP in April 2019 that hed been experiencing loose stool for six months  which he 
believed to be due to anxiety. This is within 18 months of the cancer being diagnosed. I think 
this medical history is of note and that it is contradictory to Mr A usually [having] satisfactory 
evacuation.
I think Mr A ought reasonably to have remembered these bowel problems and known that it 
wouldve been relevant information for his consultants. If this had been shared with them, then I wouldve expected this to have been referenced in the above letters. As it isnt 
referenced, I think its more likely than not that Mr A didnt disclose his full medical history to 
them. Because of this, Im not persuaded the letters provide a true reflection of his history of 
symptoms  including when they commenced. 
I also think its relevant to note Mr As call to the GP surgery on 26 November 2019 to 
enquire about the tests carried out in 2018, and specifically whether they were to check for 
bowel cancer. This call took place around seven weeks prior to Mr As appointment with the 
private GP on 14 January 2020. And so, it seems consistent with the private GP records that 
report Mr A being unwell for eight weeks at that time. Furthermore, although the reason for 
the request isnt recorded, it seems most probable  in my view  that Mr As reason for 
calling the GP for an appointment on 6 and 7 January 2020 was related to these symptoms. 
I think its more likely Mr A was suspicious or new of some ill health due to the symptoms he 
was experiencing.
Ive considered Mr As claim that the referral letter was written by a different doctor to the 
one he saw. And that the 14 January 2020 private GP record could be wrong due to the 
consultation only lasting about 30 seconds. I havent however seen anything to show the 
doctor Mr A saw is different to who wrote the referral letter. But, even if it was, I see no 
reason for the record to be so vastly inaccurate. Particularly, as I think its unlikely a 
consultation that led to a referral for further investigations with a gastroenterologist would 
only take 30 seconds. I consider it more likely the JACCOL examination took place as 
recorded  which led to the referral  and that the symptoms noted are accurate. 
It follows that I think Legal and General asked Mr A a clear and specific question. And that 
Mr A ought to have known hed suffered some of the listed symptoms in the three months 
prior to applying, as well intending to seek a health professional about said symptoms. 
Because of this, I consider Mr A failed to take reasonable care when answering the 
application question. 
Legal and General has provided their underwriting criteria which shows that, had they known 
this, they wouldnt have offered cover to Mr A at that time. This means Im satisfied Mr As 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Legal and General has said Mr As misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. Ive 
carefully considered this and, in these circumstances, I think Legal and Generals 
classification of the misrepresentation is reasonable. This is because Im satisfied Mr A 
wouldve known the answer he gave to the application was untrue. And, with taking into 
account Mr As employment as a financial adviser, I think he wouldve known this information 
was relevant to Legal and General. 
As I agree with Legal and General that Mr As misrepresentation should be treated as 
deliberate or reckless, Ive looked at the remedies they can take in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, in these situations, the insurer is allowed to avoid the policy, refuse the claim (as the 
policy effectively never existed) and retain the premiums.  Therefore, Im satisfied Legal and 
General were entitled to take the actions they did. As CIDRA reflects our long-established 
approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Legal and General to rely on it to avoid 
Mr As policy produces a fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
On a final note, Im aware Mr A has argued that his claim should be accepted as he 
disagrees there was an oversight by Legal and General when reviewing the GP report as 
part of their underwriting process. He says they considered his GP report and agreed to the 
terms in which he applied for. Ive thought about this and while Legal and General did have 
access to his GP records, they didnt have the private GP record of 14 January 2020 as this 
happened post application. This record evidences Mr A was experiencing his symptoms in the three months prior to applying. I think its reasonable for Legal and General to consider 
this when reviewing the claim. And, irrespective of whether cover was agreed by both 
parties, I dont consider that it removes the requirement for Mr A  under CIDRA  to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. As Ive explained, Im satisfied a qualifying 
misrepresentation happened here and so I think its fair for Legal and General to apply the 
appropriate remedy under CIDRA (the relevant legislation) for Mr As claim. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mr A is hoping for but, for the above reasons, I think Legal and 
General has acted fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman