DRN-3333240
The complaint
Mr P complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) marked his credit file with a missed 
payment marker.
What happened
Mr P had a loan from Clydesdale. It was originally provided by Yorkshire Bank  which was 
then rebranded as Virgin Money. But I will refer to the lender as Clydesdale in this decision. 
The loan was for £15,000 and started in May 2019, payable over 60 months with 
repayments of £405.02 per month. Mr Ps income was affected by the pandemic. Clydesdale 
agreed to provide two periods of payment holiday under the pandemic support scheme  in 
March 2020 for three months, and then in July 2020, again for three months. Late payment 
markers were applied to Mr Ps credit file in November 2020 and December 2020. In 
January 2021, Mr P entered into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA).
Mr P complained. He said the late payment markers werent fair as hed paid the monthly 
instalments in November 2020 and December 2020. He also said he couldnt see why his 
loan balance had gone up  even though the payments had been made. Mr P said to us that 
he entered an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) in January 2021 and had the loan 
balance been better explained by Clydesdale, that wouldnt have been necessary. And when 
he called Clydesdale on 20 November 2020  theyd called an ambulance because of what 
he said  this was unnecessary, a waste of everyones time and that visit was now on his 
medical records. 
Clydesdale agreed that theyd made an error in marking Mr Ps credit file with a late payment 
marker in November 2020. They agreed to remove that. And for that error, together with a 
number of other service issues (which are not part of the complaint that Mr P brought to us) 
 they paid total compensation of £225, plus they also funded the loan payment of £405.02 
in January 2021. 
Mr P brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said she thought Clydesdale should do 
more. She could see that the loan payment had been made in December 2020 and Mr P 
provided evidence that his credit file was marked for that month. So  Clydesdale should 
remove that. She explained that one reason that Mr P saw his loan balance increasing was 
that each month  the interest was applied first, and the loan payment was then made a few 
days later. And in-between, the balance went up by the amount of the interest. She couldnt 
agree that what Clydesdale had said about Mr Ps loan balance couldve directly caused the 
IVA. And she said that  it was reasonable that Clydesdale called an ambulance in November 
2020  based on what he said to them.
Mr P didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look into his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are four aspects to Mr Ps complaint.
Interest and payments to his personal loan  which caused his initial complaint to 
Clydesdale.
The markers to his credit file in November 2020 and December 2020.
Clydesdales decision to call an ambulance to him following his call on 20 November 
2020.
Mr Ps IVA in January 2021. 
Interest on the personal loan and payments to personal loan: Mr P asked for two payment 
holidays under the Covid-19 support scheme. To be clear, I will explain what this was. In 
April 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in 
response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including 
Clydesdale, had to put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, including 
personal loans  to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of 
two payment holidays, each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. 
Missed payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest 
would still be debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the end of 
October 2020. 
I can see that Clydesdale gave Mr P two periods of payment holiday, each for three months 
 in March 2020 and July 2020. That was the maximum allowed under the scheme. During 
this time, no payments were made to Mr Ps personal loan. I looked at Mr Ps loan 
statements  and no interest was charged between April 2020 and September 2020. So  
even though as part of the scheme, Clydesdale couldve charged interest, they didnt  so 
that was a benefit to Mr P.
Mr P has said that his loan balance was increasing and so there must have been an error by 
Clydesdale. He said it was going up by around £200 a month. Ive looked at this. On 31 
March 2020 (at the start of the payment holiday)  the balance was £13,463. On 1 October 
2020  it was still £13,483 (after the payment holiday ended). So  this indicates the 
payment holiday worked as was intended - no interest was paid and no payments were 
made. On 31 October 2020, interest of £234.89 was debited  and the next payment of 
£405.02 was credited  later - on 4 November 2020. So as our investigator said, this may be 
an explanation as to why Mr P was concerned. I then looked at Mr Ps loan statement 
further. We dont provide a checking/audit service, but I can see that interest payable was 
around £230 per month, and payments were £405.02 a month  and so the balance was 
reducing by around £175 a month  which looks right.
And so  from what I could see on Mr Ps loan as it ran throughout 2020, things looked to be 
run properly by Clydesdale and in line with the loan agreement.
Markers on Mr Ps credit file: Clydesdale admitted that they made an error in marking Mr Ps 
credit file with a missed payment in November 2020  and I can see that payment was 
made. Clydesdale apologised and deleted this from Mr Ps credit file  and showed us 
evidence they did this. Mr P then showed us evidence that his credit file was also marked 
with a missed payment in December 2020. We looked at this and confirmed that the 
payment was made. This was therefore an error by Clydesdale and this should also be 
removed as part of this decision.
Calling of an ambulance: Mr P argues that this wasnt necessary and therefore his medical 
records were now marked. He showed us the ambulance report which stated that it was a false alarm. But equally, I heard on the call between Mr P and Clydesdale on 20 November 
2020  that Mr P told Clydesdale that on the previous call hed said I feel like smashing my 
head against a brick wall. You make me feel suicidal.. Mr P says that this was just an 
expression  and it was borne out of his frustration with Clydesdale. And he didnt mean it. 
But  I think its reasonable to say that it appears that Clydesdale only had Mr Ps best 
interests at heart in doing what they did. And therefore, I cant say they were wrong in doing 
that. 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement: Mr P argues that he may not have entered an IVA had the 
balance of his loan been better explained to him, and if the markers on his credit file not 
been put on. We havent asked Mr P for his overall circumstances at the time  but the 
decision to enter an IVA would typically be where a customers debts were so substantial as 
to be unmanageable. Mr P told us that he was taking advice from debt advice agencies  
and therefore, it wouldve been they, or an insolvency practitioner, who advised him to enter 
an IVA. In all honesty, I think it would be unlikely that a confusion over the loan account 
balance or two missed payment markers wouldve caused the IVA. And so, on balance, Im 
not persuaded that the actions of Clydesdale couldve been considered so significant to have 
caused the IVA. 
And so, in summary  I agree that Clydesdale should remove the missed payment marker 
from Mr Ps credit file for the month of December 2020.
I now need to look at the matter of compensation. Clydesdale apologised for their error 
regarding the missed payment marker on Mr Ps credit file in November 2020. And for that, 
along with several other complaints, paid Mr P compensation of £225, plus they also made 
the January 2021 payment of £405.02 to Mr Ps loan  so a total of £630.02. Our service 
considers an award of this amount to be appropriate where the businesss mistakes cause 
sustained distress, potentially affecting someones health, or severe disruption to daily life 
typically lasting more than a year. I think its fair to say that what happened to Mr P falls into 
this category  and so, I consider this to be sufficient compensation for what happened. And 
 I wont be asking Clydesdale to pay anymore. (continued)
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc must:
Remove the late payment marker from Mr Ps credit file for December 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman