DRN-2666532
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the cash settlement offered by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) under her home insurance claim. 
Im only going to refer to RSA in my decision but Im talking about all representatives and 
appointed experts working on its behalf.
What happened
There was a water leak from Mrs Hs washing machine which caused damage in a number 
of rooms in her house. She made a claim to RSA, which was accepted. Mrs H was generally 
happy with the way RSA handled her claim.
But Mrs H felt that she would have to wait a long time for the replacement carpets if RSA got 
their contractors to supply and fit them. So she asked RSA to pay her a cash settlement so 
that her own carpet fitters could do the job. 
RSA agreed to the cash settlement. But Mrs H said it wasnt high enough for her to replace 
the carpets. So she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator asked RSA to consider increasing their cash settlement offer, but it didnt 
agree. It said its preferred supplier hadnt been responsible for the delays Mrs H had 
complained about. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. He noted that the cash settlement had 
been based on the amount it wouldve cost RSAs own contractor to replace the carpets. He 
thought that was fair, as it was line with Mrs Hs policy terms and conditions. But Mrs H 
wanted a cash settlement that was closer to the cost shed had to pay to replace the carpets. 
So her complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H says the value RSA offered for her replacement carpets was too low to allow her to 
buy them. She says she didnt want to use its contractor to supply and fit her replacement 
carpets as they couldnt fit them quickly enough. She feels RSA shouldve made her aware 
that the cash settlement it offered wouldnt be enough for her to cover the cost of the 
replacement carpets herself. So she feels RSA should increase its offer. 
With that in mind Ive carefully considered whether the amount RSA has offered to settle this 
claim fairly reflects the value of Mrs Hs damaged carpets. And Ill explain why I think it does.
The policy says (on page 12 of the policy booklet): 
PREFERRED SUPPLIERS
We take pride in the claims service we offer to our customers. Our philosophy is to repair or 
replace lost or damaged property, where we consider it appropriate, and we have developed 
a network of contractors, repairers and product suppliers dedicated to providing claim 
solutions. Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier but we 
agree to pay our customer a cash settlement, then payment will normally not exceed the 
amount we would have paid our preferred supplier.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied the valuation that RSA used was based on a 
similar quality to the carpets it was intended to replace. So, Im persuaded RSA agreed to 
provide a carpet that matched the quality and specification of Mrs Hs damaged carpet in line 
with the terms of her policy.
RSA could replace Mrs Hs carpet for just under £1,000. This is significantly lower than the 
price Mrs H paid to her supplier and fitter. RSAs quote was calculated using the scheme 
price rather than the retail price. The scheme price is the discounted price RSA benefits from 
when it uses a preferred supplier, as it did here. So Mrs H would find it difficult to obtain the 
same quality replacement carpet for the money she was offered by RSA. 
And, in accordance with the policys terms and conditions, if Mrs H didnt want RSA to 
replace her carpets through its preferred supplier she can request it pay her a cash 
settlement instead. In those circumstances her policy states that the amount wont normally 
exceed what RSA wouldve paid its preferred supplier. 
Here RSA initially offered Mrs H the option of its preferred supplier supplying and fitting the 
new carpets. When she declined this option it offered a cash settlement amount equal to 
what it wouldve cost it to supply and fit the new carpets.
I know Mrs H has said that she felt RSA couldnt replace her carpets in time for Christmas. 
And that shed already had to cope with concrete flooring for several weeks. So she felt RSA 
shouldve contributed to the additional cost of using her own supplier so that she could get 
the carpets fitted sooner. 
Mrs H also said that she feels that RSA should have explicitly stated the cash settlement 
would be significantly less on calls or point me to the terms before making the decision. But 
I can see from the claim notes that when she first reported the leak, on 25 September 2019, 
Mrs H explained that she wanted to use her own supplier for the carpet. The claim notes 
also state that RSA did inform that we will only pay on the Limit of Liability set by our 
supplier for the work that needs to be done to get the carpet done right.  
Mrs H said that RSAs preferred supplier told her on 8 November that they wouldnt be able 
to supply and fit the replacement carpets in time for Christmas. I can see that RSAs 
preferred supplier received a sample of the carpet that needed replacing from Mrs H on 14 
November 2019. This was analysed so that a like for like replacement could be costed and 
RSA could make its cash settlement offer. Ive seen the report of that analysis and note that 
the total cost of all the required work was £985.34. On 25 November 2019, Mrs H was told 
that the cash settlement would be £985.34. But at this point shed already bought the 
replacement carpets privately. From the evidence, I cant say that RSAs preferred supplier 
caused delays to the process.
I can see from the claim notes that RSA did then ask Mrs H to provide the cost of getting 
exactly the same carpet in the living room and in the hallway. RSA needed this information 
before it could consider increasing its cash settlement offer. But she wasnt able to provide 
that. So RSA explained that it couldnt offer Mrs H more than £985.34, its limit of liability.
From the evidence, Im not persuaded that Mrs H only decided to use her own supplier for 
her replacement carpets because of the time it would take RSA to arrange the replacement. I note that RSA were prepared to review its cash settlement offer if additional information 
was provided. And I can see that RSA did make Mrs H aware that the cash settlement would 
be based on the cost to it of replacing the carpets using their preferred suppliers. So I cant 
say that RSA has acted unfairly or unreasonably. And I cant ask it to do anything more.
I know this isnt what Mrs H was hoping to hear. While I appreciate that RSAs cash 
settlement offer is frustrating for Mrs H, Im satisfied it offered to settle her claim in line with 
the terms of her insurance policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman