DRN-4027826
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc is holding him liable for the debt on a loan which he 
says he neither applied for nor knew about. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, in April 2022 a loan was taken out with HSBC in Mr Ls name for 
£12,500. Mr L subsequently got in touch with HSBC to let it know he hadnt applied for the 
loan. HSBC investigated things and ultimately couldnt reach agreement with Mr L, so he 
referred his complaint about HSBC to us. Our Investigator couldnt resolve things informally, 
so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint for materially the same reasons as 
our Investigator. Im not persuaded this loan in Mr Ls name was entered into without his 
knowledge or consent as he alleges. 
For things to have happened as Mr L has suggested, a third-party would have needed to 
have applied for the loan in Mr Ls name and to have then accessed Mr Ls account into 
which the loan funds were paid, so as to fraudulently move the loan funds on from there, all 
without the knowledge and consent of Mr L. 
The information Ive seen does not suggest this is most likely what happened here. Mr L has 
said unauthorised transactions were made out of his account before and after the loan funds 
landed. The matter of alleged unauthorised transactions on Mr Ls account was addressed 
and decided here by a different Ombudsman under a separate case, in which the 
Ombudsman determined that the probabilities in the matter pointed in the direction that 
either Mr L made the transactions concerned himself, or he provided authority for a 
third-party to do so on his behalf. 
Ive seen no reason in this separate case about the loan why I would reach a different 
conclusion and I agree with what our Investigator has already said about things. I would 
have expected Mr L to question the loan earlier than he did if he hadnt applied for or 
consented to it. And overall the evidence just isnt persuasive that Mr L somehow didnt 
know about this and that someone somehow then accessed his bank account and moved 
the funds out without his knowledge and consent in circumstances where this doesnt seem 
most likely what happened. This means I dont think its likely the loan was taken out without 
Mr Ls knowledge or consent as he alleges, and I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman