DRN-4085258
The complaint
Mr U complains that Fairscore Ltd trading as Updraft was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr U says that Fairscore provided him with a £2,300 loan on 31 August 2022. The loan was 
repayable over 36 months, with 35 monthly repayments of around £102 and a final 
repayment of around £147. The total repayable amount was around £3,717. Mr U says that 
this lending shouldnt have been provided as he was struggling financially. He says his credit 
report would have shown he had a high number of credit searches, had recently taken out 
several payday loans and he was at his limit on his credit cards.  
Fairscore issued a final response letter. It said that Mr U said he had an annual income of 
£36,500 and the loan was to repay his credit cards. Fairscore said that it included Mr Us 
credit costs based on a review of his credit file and that Mr U provided information about his 
other costs, but the amount included for these was increased based on its system generated 
costs based on statistical data. Fairscore said that its credit check didnt suggest Mr U was 
experiencing financial difficulties at the time and that its checks suggested the lending was 
affordable.
Mr U says that Fairscores response to his complaint suggested checks being carried out on 
dates when he hadnt applied for loans with it. As he wasnt satisfied with Fairscores 
response, he referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought that Fairscore had carried out 
proportionate checks before lending and that there was nothing raised through these that 
suggested the lending was unaffordable. 
Mr U didnt agree with our investigators view. He said the loan was for a larger amount than 
an average payday loan and Fairscore should have done further checks, such as requesting 
his bank statements, before lending. He said further checks would have shown he had 
several active payday loans and seven credit cards all with missed payments. He says 
adequate checks would have shown he was in financial hardship and his bank statements 
would have further shown he had made losses gambling. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fairscore will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before lending to Mr U, Fairscore was required to carry out adequate checks. There isnt a 
specific set of checks that need to be undertaken and what can be considered as 
proportionate checks can be different depending on factors such as the size and duration of 
the loan and the size of repayments. In this case, before lending, Fairscore carried out a 
credit check and asked Mr U about his income and expenses and compared this to its 
statistically generated costs. 
Having looked through the information provided this shows that Fairscore gathered some 
details about Mr Us credit worthiness. It noted that Mr U had unsecured debt of £2,241 
which included loan and credit card debt. However, the credit results I have seen do not 
show details of how Mr U was managing his other credit commitments or further details on 
the type of loans he had outstanding. I have therefore looked at a copy of a credit report 
provided by Mr U. This shows that Mr U was generally managing his accounts well. There 
some historic issues reported Mr U had taken out short-term loans around the time of the 
lending, and he was operating his credit cards at close to their limits. However, I do not find 
that the credit information I have seen is such that it meant the lending shouldnt have taken 
place or that further checks were needed in this case given the size of the loan and 
repayments.  
I have considered whether the checks suggested the lending was affordable for Mr U. Mr Us 
declared income was around £2,400 a month. This amount was checked with a credit 
reference agency and an amount of £2,000 a month was used for the assessment. Mr Us 
credit commitments were assessed based on his credit report and these showed 
repayments of around £385 a month. Additional to this Mr U provided information about his 
housing and other costs. As Fairscores systems suggested a higher amount for the general 
costs than Mr U had declared the higher amount was included in its assessment. Having 
looked at the information received through the checks, I do not find that the repayments of 
around £102 a month should have been considered unaffordable. Because of this I do not 
find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman