DRN-4512176
The complaint
Ms R complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund money that she didnt withdraw from her
account.
What happened
Ms R says that she didnt make six cash withdrawals each for £200 from her account on 
consecutive days in February 2022. She says that she didnt have the PIN that would be 
required. And that she only realised what happened when she received an annual account 
statement in January 2023. She says she has shown that shed been in a different location 
less than an hour and a half before the time of a withdrawal on one of the days.
Santander said it wouldnt be refunding this money. The withdrawals required the card on 
the account to be present and the correct PIN entered. Ms R was expected to keep the PIN 
secure and not disclose this to anyone.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He agreed that the 
withdrawals required the card and PIN. And he thought it unlikely that if someone had 
obtained Ms Rs card then theyd also have been able to discover the PIN. There was no 
point of compromise. He said that on 1 March 2022 Santander received a call verified as 
being from Ms R using voice biometrics. During that call Ms R reported the card used for the 
withdrawals ending with numbers 746 as lost. There was no recording of the call now given 
the time that had passed. But this showed that Ms R had been aware of the card. Hed 
looked at the information Ms R had provided about the time of her other shopping using a 
different bank card on 24 February 2022. But that didnt mean that she didnt consent to the 
withdrawals even if made by someone else.
Ms R didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She had provided proof that 
she was somewhere else before one of the withdrawals was made. She now thought she 
called about her lost card because shed received a new card. Ms R said she didnt have a 
PIN and she doesnt know how the withdrawals happened. She said she didnt give her bank 
card and PIN to anyone. She wouldnt have travelled daily to a different area to take out 
money and she had caring responsibilities at home during the day.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 20 November 2023. I set out below what I said.
I explained that I wouldnt be able to say exactly what happened, but Id be thinking about 
what is most likely on a balance of probabilities. I needed to take into account the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 in considering this complaint. These state that a payment can 
only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its not enough for it to be authenticated, say 
with a card and PIN as here. And if they werent authorised Ms R wouldnt generally be 
responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these
payments?
- Did Ms R authorise the payments on the account including by allowing someone else to
use the card?
I was satisfied from the information provided by Santander that the disputed payments were 
authenticated with the genuine card and the PIN. I needed to consider whether Ms R 
consented to and so authorised the payments.
Through our investigator I asked Santander for some more information about the card and 
the PIN and the activity on the account. It told me that the card used was a reissue 
processed on 16 February 2022 and had an expiry date of February 2028. At the same time 
a PIN advice on the account was processed. The information is that these were sent 
separately to Ms Rs correct address and were expected to arrive on different dates. The 
daily card cash withdrawal limit was then £300. Santander also provided entries on the 
account showing that the last one before the disputed payments other than interest was a 
transfer in early 2018.
As referred to by our investigator this card was cancelled on 1 March 2022, and I noted the 
time of call at just after 3pm. At first Ms R said she didnt remember calling to do this and 
asked for a recording. That isnt available. But the record of biometrics indicates it was made 
by her. I found it unlikely anyone other than her would have made that call as this stopped 
any further withdrawals being made with the card. I didnt have a record of any further 
attempts to use the card after that. There was no other new card issued than this one until 
the lost card was reported. And so, I thought that to know that the card was lost Ms R most 
likely had received it in the first place. Santander said that it would as a matter of course ask 
an account holder about any recent payments to see if the card had been misused. The 
withdrawals would have been visible on its system at that time. I also thought it likely that  
Ms R would be concerned about whether her lost card had been misused in some way. If 
she did want to make a claim I didnt see any strong reason why she wouldnt have made 
that then. And especially if these had been mentioned to her by Santander. Having said that 
I couldnt know exactly what was then discussed.
I took into account the pattern of payments. These were regular daily withdrawals of £200 in 
a location away from Ms Rs home and between 1 and 3pm each afternoon. These started 
on 23 February 2022 and the last was on 28 February 2022. Ms R has provided information 
to show she wasnt in the relevant location around lunch time on 24 February 2022. Thats 
not definitive but could be consistent with her not making that withdrawal herself. I didnt 
have reason to doubt what she says about her caring responsibilities at home. There was 
still a significant amount of money in her account when the lost card was reported.
Ms R is adamant she didnt have a PIN for the card. I didnt have any specific information to 
support it somehow being compromised for example through problems with her post or by 
someone with access to her property. I could see from the complaint investigation from 
Santander that it had asked her about why she might not have received the PIN but didnt 
note any explanation from her. If the PIN had somehow been intercepted before reaching 
her Id still need to find that someone was able to obtain her card. And Id expect her to keep 
her card safe as she said she did in what she described as a secret place and not disclose 
her PIN to anyone and keep that safe too. She said that she didnt write her PINs for other 
cards down.
Assessment
I said I was going to consider what I thought are the two possible broad scenarios here:
The first is that Ms R consented to the payments. The information is that the card used and the PIN were sent to her home. After not using a card on her account for years within days of 
these being issued her account was being used. She didnt pursue, or it seems ask about 
any misuse of her card at the time she reported the lost card because shed consented to 
the payments. This may have involved her allowing someone else to use the card, especially 
on 24 February 2022. She later decided to make a claim only after her statement was 
issued.
The second is that Ms Rs card was somehow taken from her even though she wasnt using 
it. The PIN was discovered possibly before it got to her address. A third party took money 
from the account daily until the card was blocked and may have thought that the daily 
withdrawal limit was £200. Ms R realised she no longer had the replacement card and 
reported it. She has been consistent in saying she never had the PIN. She didnt know about 
the loss or would have reported this at the time too.
I said that this was a finely balanced decision and that is why I was issuing a provisional 
decision with my reasoning to allow for any further evidence and comments. Neither 
scenario is impossible. On balance I didnt think that Ms R has shown a credible way in 
which both her PIN could be compromised, and her new card obtained by an unknown third 
party. I was satisfied she had that new card before reporting it lost and that it is most likely 
that any unauthorised payments would have been discovered at the time. I dont rule out her 
allowing someone else to have the card and PIN, but I thought she would be responsible for 
what that person did. On balance I provisionally found Ms R was aware of what had 
happened and consented to the use of her card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander didnt make any further comments.
Ms R said that she wanted someone to look at video or camera evidence to identify the 
person withdrawing the money. She asked why she would travel on six consecutive days to 
a location away from her home to make withdrawals when there were cashpoints in her 
area. And she said she wouldnt want to walk around with this amount of money in case it 
was stolen from her.
Given the time that has now passed I consider it unlikely that any CCTV footage is available. 
And it would be a matter for the relevant authorities to obtain any footage from a third party. I 
would also say that CCTV isnt always conclusive in determining whether there was consent 
given. And as I set out above I didnt rule out Ms R allowing someone else to use the card. I 
note what she says about carrying money. I took account of the pattern and location of the 
withdrawals in my provisional decision and what shed already said about this.
Having reviewed the additional comments she has made Im afraid that it doesnt change my 
assessment and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision above. I find it most likely 
that Ms R was aware of what had happened and consented to the use of her card. I 
appreciate she will be disappointed by my findings and that Im not requiring Santander to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or reject my decision before 29 January 2024.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman