DRN-4422765
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with N.I.I.B. 
Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In August 2022, Mr M was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Northridge. He paid a deposit of £4,000 and the agreement was for £25,000 over 48 months; 
with 47 monthly payments of £594.90 and a final payment of £604.90. At the time of supply, 
the car was around four and a half years old and had done 36,742 miles.
Mr M has said he started to have issues with the car shortly after it was supplied to him, and 
he complained to the supplying dealership. However, they didnt respond. He says there 
were issues with the oil continually needing to be topped up, electrical faults, and the car 
needed to be jumpstarted to be able to get it going.  
In February 2023, he raised his complaints with Northridge. They didnt uphold the complaint 
as Mr M had been able to travel 5,000 miles in the car since supply. Mr M wasnt happy with 
this response, and he brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for 
investigation.
From the evidence shed seen, our investigator was satisfied there was a fault with the car. 
She said the dealership had agreed to look at the car, but this was eight months after Mr M 
first raised his issues with them. And, because the car wouldnt start, Mr M was then unable 
to get the car back to the dealership.
The investigator thought the faults with the car were present when it was supplied to Mr M, 
and that Northridge need to do something to put things right. However, because of the 
delays and inconvenience caused so far, she said that Mr M should be able to reject the car. 
The investigator also said that Northridge should refund 40% of the payments Mr M made 
from January 2023, to reflect his impaired usage, as well as pay him £500 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr M agreed with the investigator. Northridge said they were always happy to inspect the 
car, so didnt think they were given the opportunity to attempt a repair, and they didnt think 
any delay was their fault. They also didnt think it was their responsibility to arrange for the 
car to be moved.
Northridge also said there was no evidence there were faults with the car when it was 
supplied to Mr M. And they offered to arrange for an independent inspection, but didnt 
indicate whether they would pay for this, or whether they would expect Mr M to pay for it.
Because Northridge didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Northridge are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Northridge can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr M to show it was present when the 
car was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr M took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Northridge to put this right.
Ive seen that Mr M first raised the issue of the low oil with the dealership on 2 September 
2022  around a week after the car was supplied to him. However, I havent seen anything to 
show me that the dealership ever responded to this.
Mr M complained to the dealership again on 11 February 2023, raising the issue of the oil 
leak again, as well as issues with being able to start the car. He then raised the same 
complaint with Northridge a few weeks later.
Mr M had the car independently inspected on 7 March 2023, at the cost of £114. The 
inspection report said found faults in ECU relating battery protection management unit and 
NOX sensor. Found oil leaking from rocker cover. All require replacement. Found light oil 
leak from gearbox also.
Im satisfied that the issues Mr M raised with the dealership and/or Northridge in September 
2022 and February 2023 are supported by the faults found by the independent inspection. 
As Mr M raised the issue of the low oil level shortly after being supplied with the car, and his 
subsequent complaints pointed out that hes had to continue to top up the oil since the car 
was supplied to him, Im satisfied the oil leak was present when the car was supplied.
With regards to the battery fault that is most likely the cause of the car not being able to 
start, Im satisfied that happened within the first six months of the car being supplied. And, 
while the independent inspection doesnt comment on whether this was present or developing at the point of supply, Northridge havent provided any evidence to show this 
wasnt the case. 
However, notwithstanding this, Ive also considered the durability of the car. And I dont 
consider it reasonable to expect a car thats less than five years old, and which has done 
less than 50,000 miles, to have developed a fault that means it needs to be jumpstarted all 
the time. As such, Im satisfied its more likely than not that the car was also insufficiently 
durable at the point of supply. This makes the car of an unsatisfactory quality at the point of 
supply, and Northridge need to do something to put things right.
Putting things right
Section 24(5) of the CRA says a consumer who has  the right to reject may only exercise 
[this] and may only do so in one of these situations  (a) after one repair or replacement, the 
goods do not confirm to contract. This is known as the single chance of repair. And this 
applies to all issues with the goods, and to all repairs i.e., its not a single chance of repair for 
the dealership AND a single chance of repair for Northridge  the first attempted repair is the 
single chance at repair. Whats more, if a different fault arises after a previous repair, even if 
those faults arent related, the single chance of repair has already happened  its not a 
single chance of repair per fault.
Northridge have said that they havent had the single chance at repair, and they dont think 
its fair that this is denied to them. While I agree that neither the dealership nor Northridge 
have attempted a repair, as Ive said above, the evidence shows Mr M first raised the issue 
of the oil leak with the dealership on 2 September 2022, and they took no action.
Section 23(2) of the CRA states:
If the consumer requires the trader to repair or replace the goods, the trader must 
(a) do so within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to 
the consumer
Given that the dealership was aware there was a fault with the car over 12-months ago, and 
they took no action to inspect and/or repair the car, I cant agree with Northridge that Mr M 
has been the cause of the delay  Im satisfied this was down to the dealership. As such, Im 
satisfied that the dealership / Northridge have failed to comply with Section 23(2)(a) of the 
CRA. And, in these circumstances, Mr M should be now able to reject the car.
Mr M has been able to use the car while it was in his possession. So, I think its only fair that 
he pays for this usage. However, given the issues with the car, especially the need to 
continually jumpstart the car, Im also satisfied that Mr Ms usage and enjoyment of the car 
has been impaired. 
Because of this, I also think its fair that Northridge refund some of the payments Mr M 
made. The jumpstarting has significantly impaired the usage of the car, but Mr M only raised 
this with Northridge in February 2023, so I dont think its reasonable for him to be able to 
claim any impaired usage before this point, as Northridges lack of knowledge before then 
meant they were unable to take any action to rectify matters. As such, I think that 40% of the 
payments made from February 2023 onwards fairly reflects the impaired use caused by the 
car not being of a satisfactory quality.
Mr M has provided evidence of the £114 cost hes incurred in having the car inspected. And, 
given that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when supplied, I think its only fair that 
Northridge reimburse these costs.Finally, its clear that Mr M has been significantly inconvenienced by what has happened, 
and this had had a major impact on his ability to use the car. So, I think Northridge should 
compensate him for this. The investigator had recommended Northridge pay him £500, 
which is in line with what I wouldve directed had no recommendation been made. So, I see 
no compelling reason not to adopt this as part of my final decision.
Therefore, if they havent already done so, Northridge should:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr Ms credit file;
refund the £4,000 deposit Mr M paid;
refund 40% of all payments made by Mr M from February 2023 until the agreement is 
unwound;
reimburse Mr M with the £114 inspection costs he paid on 7 March 2023;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds/reimbursements, calculated from the 
date Mr M made the payments to the date of the refund; and
pay Mr M an additional £500 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Northridge to take off tax from this interest. Northridge 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint about N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as 
Northridge Finance. And they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman