DRN-4079396
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs W have complained about errors and delays by Barclays Bank UK PLC in 
releasing a further advance that they needed to carry out building work. As a result, Mr S 
(who has dealt with the complaint throughout) withdrew funds from his pension to pay the 
builders, incurring a tax liability of £9,768.06. Mr S would like Barclays to refund this, with 
interest, and to pay compensation for distress and inconvenience.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 24 June 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr S and Mrs W being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
The relevant events can be summarised as follows.
On 16 April 2021 Mr S and Mrs W purchased a property with the aid of a mortgage from 
Barclays. They wanted to carry out building work on the property. On 28 April 2021 they 
began an application for a further advance of £45,000. 
On 11 May 2021 Mr S and Mrs W entered into a contract with a builder for the work to be 
carried out. The contract provided that stage payments would be made, the first payment of 
£15,000 when the work start date was agreed, two further payments each of £25,000 on 
weeks 4 and 8 and a final payment of £15,000 on completion of the work. The builder began 
work on 17 May 2021.
On 20 May 2021 a surveyor instructed by Barclays carried out a valuation for the purposes 
of the further advance application. The surveyor reported that the property wasnt habitable, 
as internal load-bearing walls had been removed and the property had, effectively, been 
gutted. The surveyor gave a £0 valuation and said a further inspection would be needed. A 
second valuation report dated 9 June 2021 said that the valuation once the work was carried 
out would be £145,000, but emphasised that the property was still uninhabitable.
Barclays offer of a further advance was issued on 11 June 2021. The Mortgage Adviser 
(MA) with whom Mr S was dealing sent an e-sign request for the release of funds to 
Mr S and Mrs W on 14 June 2021. However, on 18 June 2021 Mr S and Mrs W were told by 
the MA that there would need to be another valuation and so release of funds would be 
delayed.
In order to make the third stage payment to the builders, on 2 July 2021 Mr S withdrew 
money from his pension fund, on which he incurred a tax liability of £9,768.06.
On 2 September 2021 another valuation was carried out for Barclays, which noted that the 
work had been completed. The further advance offer was re-issued by Barclays, dated 
10 September 2021, and completed on 13 September 2021 when £45,000 was released to 
Mr S and Mrs W.
Mr S and Mrs W complained to Barclays. They said theyd been assured at the outset that 
there would be no problem with the further advance, that a valuation wouldnt be necessary 
and that the funds would be released in mid-June 2021. They said they were told by the MA 
before 20 May 2021 that they could go ahead with the work.
Barclays wasnt able to find any evidence that Mr S and Mrs W were told they could begin 
work before 20 May 2021. However, Barclays accepted that it shouldnt have told 
Mr S and Mrs W on 16 June 2021 that the funds would be released. Barclays offered total 
compensation of £1,000, made up of £100 for customer service issues, a total of £400 for 
poor complaint-handling and £500 for Mr S and Mrs W being told the fund would be released 
on 16 June 2021.
Mr S and Mrs W didnt accept this and brought their complaint to our service. Mr S said that 
he had only instructed the builder to proceed after being told that the funds would be 
released on 16 June 2021. He paid the builder and then found out the funds wouldnt be 
released. The only way he could find the money was to make the withdrawal from his 
pension fund. As a result, Mr S thought Barclays should reimburse the tax hed had to pay of 
almost £10,000.
An investigator looked at what had happened and thought the complaint should be upheld. 
The investigator thought that the only reason Mr S had had to withdraw the funds from his 
pension was because Barclays had assured him several times that hed be receiving the 
funds in mid-June. The investigator asked Barclays to reimburse the tax Mr S had paid on 
withdrawing the funds from his pension - £9,786.06. The investigator thought the 
compensation offered of £1,000 was fair and reasonable.
Barclays didnt agree with the investigators findings. The bank said that Mr S had instructed 
the builders before the application for the further advance had been agreed. Mr S also 
responded to say that he thought Barclays should pay interest on the funds hed withdrawn 
from his pension fund.
Because the matter is unresolved it falls to me to make a decision.
Provisional decision of 14 March 2023
I issued a provisional decision, in which I reached the following conclusions.
Im not persuaded Barclays told Mr S and Mrs W to begin work on the property 
before the further advance was approved. The banks records are persuasive that 
Mr S and Mrs W were aware that the further advance was subject to an application 
and meeting lending criteria. 
Whilst I think its likely that the MA was optimistic that the application would be 
approved, Ive seen nothing in Barclays records to show that Mr S and Mrs W were 
told to go ahead with the work. 
Barclays has accepted it made a mistake when it led Mr S to believe that the further 
advance would be released in mid-June. I think this mistake arose because, after the 
initial valuation in May 2021, the second valuation which showed how much the property would be worth after the work was completed resulted in the further advance 
offer issued on 11 June 2021. 
Whether this was system-triggered, or whether it was human error isnt clear, but 
nothing turns on this. However, for a week after that, until they were made aware 
about the issue with the valuation report, Mr S and Mrs W were told several times 
that the funds would be released  which was incorrect.
Where a mistake has been made, I have to look at the impact of that mistake and, if 
possible, put the consumers back in the position theyd have been in if the mistake 
hadnt been made. If Barclays hadnt made the mistake, Mr S and Mrs W would not 
have been told that the funds would be released on 16 June 2021. So I have to think 
about what theyd have done differently if the mistake hadnt been made.
However, in this case, Im not persuaded that it was because of this error that Mr S 
had to withdraw money from his pension fund. I say this because, under the terms of 
the contract theyd entered into with the builder on 11 May 2021, Mr S and Mrs W 
were already contractually obliged to pay £25,000 in week 4. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied this money would have been payable in any event, 
whether or not the further advance was available. It follows, therefore, that the 
reason why Mr S had to pay £9,768.06 in tax was because he and Mrs W had 
entered into a contract with the builders to pay them £25,000 in week 4 of the build, 
rather than as a result of any act or omission on the part of Barclays. 
Mr S and Mrs W believed for a short time that theyd be able to pay the builders the 
£25,000 from the further advance. 
I accept that it was a disappointment for them that ultimately they had to find the 
funds from elsewhere. But as that payment was due to the builders in any event, I 
cant hold Barclays responsible for this. The bank wasnt a party to the contract 
Mr S and Mrs W had entered into with their builders or the timescales theyd agreed 
for making stage payments under that contract.
What Mr S and Mrs W have suffered is not, therefore, actual financial loss, but rather 
a loss of expectation. In its final response letters, Barclays offered £500 for the 
disappointment caused to Mr S and Mrs W, along with £100 for customer service 
issues and £400 for the way the bank handled the complaint, making a total of 
£1,000. I will add here that complaint-handling isnt an activity covered by our rules, 
so I dont have any power to award compensation for that. 
Responses to the provisional decision
Barclays had nothing further to say in response to the provisional decision. Mr S has made 
some further points. He has reiterated some arguments already made (and which I have 
already considered) but has made some additional points which I summarise below.
I am mistaken about the timeline of events. The mortgage completed on 8 April 2021, 
not 16 April 2021. The further advance application was made on 21 April 2021, not 
28 April 2021.
Barclays didnt tell them to start the work, and they werent waiting for the further 
advance to begin, as they had £41,000 of their own money to pay the builders.
They didnt need the further advance to pay the June instalment to the builders, 
because they paid this out of the £41,000. They had to withdraw the funds from Mr Ss pension for the July payment (payment 3 of the contract).
They were assured by the MA that a valuation wouldnt be needed for the further 
advance.
There was no second inspection in June 2021, this was an internal valuation only 
carried out by Barclays.
Mr S didnt withdraw £24,000 from his pension, he withdrew £34,000 which, with his 
own money then added up to over £40,000, which he was intending to use even if he 
couldnt get the further advance.
He is very unhappy that the calls with the MA werent recorded and Barclays 
shouldnt allow calls to be made on mobile phones.
He didnt know Barclays had disagreed with the investigators outcome.
He has never asked for Barclays to refund interest on the tax he paid, or for any 
compensation for distress and inconvenience; this was suggested by the investigator.
Barclays paid £100 compensation because the complaint had to be re-opened, £150 
for not complying with timescales and £250 for poor complaint-handling. £500 was for 
them being told repeatedly that the further advance would be released.
Barclays kept moving the goalposts and so never kept to its lending criteria.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file again from the outset, Ive listened to the phone calls made between 
Mr S and the investigator and read everything hes sent us following my provisional decision, 
and Ive revisited my provisional decision. Having done so, Im not minded to depart from the 
conclusion I reached in my provisional decision.
I appreciate Mr S is unhappy that calls made on a mobile phone by Barclays MA werent 
recorded, and he thinks this should be changed so staff use landlines only. However, I dont 
have any power to tell Barclays how to run its business. There is evidence from the MA , in 
the form of emails between him and Mr S and Mrs W, and internally.
With regard to the timeline, Land Registry data shows the purchase completed on 16 April 
2021. The further advance application is dated 28 April 2021. Mr S has clarified that it was 
the third, not the second, stage payment to the builder which was paid out of the money he 
withdrew from his pension fund. However, nothing turns on the above or affects the outcome 
of the complaint.
Mr S has explained that he didnt need the further advance to begin the work, as he had 
sufficient funds of his own. This is borne out by an internal email dated 16 August 2021 from 
the MA which states: 
I assisted [Mr S and Mrs W] with their purchase application earlier this year. They had 
personal savings available which they were to use for home improvements [Mr S] called 
shortly after completion of his purchase stating they need to raise funds to finish the work 
theyve started. 
He said their builder previously didnt include VAT in the quotations and grossly 
underestimated the total cost. A physical valuation was required for the further borrowing 
case. [Mr S] advised that the property was in the midst of an overhaul and a physical survey 
wont be ideal We received a nil valuation we had the mortgage offer issued which 
included a condition that the property will be inspected post work completion. the funds will 
not be released until after the property has been made habitable. We agreed to lend £34.9K for them to complete at least the kitchen and bathroom before 
another valuation may be carried out and the remainder of the funds released. [Mr S] said he 
has already borrowed money from family to continue the home improvements work and will 
need the full £45K. He told me that the kitchen and bathroom have been ordered and expect 
to be installed in 3-4 weeks time. He also said the entire work should complete in 5-6 weeks 
and the property ready for inspection/revaluation. [Mr S] was to get back to me once the 
work has completed so we can get the valuation booked
The further advance offer issued on 11 June 2021 was conditional on the work being 
completed before the funds could be released. The available evidence doesnt support the 
contention that Barclays promised that the funds would be released without the work having 
been completed. To assist Mr S and Mrs W, Barclays did offer to release £30,000 before the 
work was completed, but Mr S and Mrs W declined this, as they wanted the full £45,000. 
I fully appreciate that this was a very stressful time for Mr S and Mrs W. Theyd started work 
on the property using their own funds, realised they needed more money to complete the 
work, but because the property had been gutted, it wasnt possible for the further advance to 
be released until the work was completed. This left Mr S and Mrs W in something of a 
Catch-22 situation  they needed the further advance to finish the work but couldnt get the 
further advance until the work was finished. 
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable of Barclays to have a condition in the mortgage 
offer that the property needed to be habitable. This generally means that there needs to be a 
kitchen and bathroom in the property, and is a fairly standard criterion across the industry for 
mortgage lending. 
Mr S withdrew funds from his pension in order to complete the work, incurring a tax bill as a 
result. Im not persuaded this would have been his only option, or that he could not have 
taken out a short-term loan in order to complete the work. It was Mr Ss choice to take 
money from his pension and so in all the circumstances Im not persuaded that Barclays is 
responsible for the expense Mr S incurred as a result. 
As I found in my provisional decision, Mr S and Mrs W had committed themselves to the 
contract with the builders in May 2021, and that it was this contract which led to Mr S having 
to make the payment in July 2021. I cant hold Barclays responsible for this. Although the 
bank did tell Mr S and Mrs W that the funds would be released in mid-June 2021 (which was 
incorrect), this was quickly corrected. The evidence is persuasive that Mr S and Mrs W were 
told by Barclays before the end of June 2021 that the work would need to be completed 
before the further advance could be released.
Im satisfied that the £1,000 already paid by Barclays for customer service and complaint-
handling issues is fair, reasonable and proportionate in all the circumstances. I am not 
ordering Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman