DRN-3536776
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) has treated them unfairly in relation to a legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy. 
Any reference to Mr W, Mrs W, or NFU includes the actions of any respective agents or 
representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties and has been detailed by our 
Investigator at length previously. So, I will only provide a summary of events here.
Mr and Mrs W hold a NFU Lifestyle and Home policy which includes LEI cover. 
Following an employment dispute with Company A, Mrs W engaged with a grievance 
procedure with her employer with the support of her own legal representation. A 
settlement was reached and her employment came to an end around July 2020. 
Prior, Mrs W spoke to NFU about a legal claim in February 2020. NFU says this call 
ended with Mrs W saying she would think about the matter and get in touch again 
once she had decided how to proceed. And it said the formal LEI claim was made in 
October 2020 when she contacted it to seek retrospective costs of her own solicitors. 
NFU said the policy was designed to fund legal costs for litigation that was being 
heard within a Court or Tribunal, and excludes any costs associated in dealing with 
internal grievance procedures. And that it specifically excluded any legal costs which 
were incurred without NFUs written acceptance of a claim  which is what had 
happened here.
Mrs W disputes this version of events, saying shed called a second time in February 
2020 and was told she was unable to use her own solicitor if she pursued her claim 
through NFU  against the terms of the policy. And following this call shed instructed 
her own solicitors. She said it was possible that this second call may not have been 
recorded. But, even if a second call hadnt taken place, NFU shouldve reached out 
to her to see if she wanted to proceed in light of her wellbeing and its duty of care. 
Mrs W also raised other concerns about NFU. She said it didnt consider her 
individual needs or account for her wellbeing. She said NFU had failed to share 
information about its policies for vulnerable consumers. She said NFU had caused 
delays in handling the claim, it had failed to respond to a subject access request 
(SAR), and it hadnt told her she could take the matter to arbitration.
Our Investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. She said the 
notes of the February 2020 call suggested Mrs W had told NFU about the issue with 
Company A and said she would seek further employment advice and consider her 
options before proceeding with an LEI claim. She said although there wasnt 
evidence of a second call around this time, this was immaterial as Mrs Ws policy did 
allow her to appoint her own solicitor from the start. And she didnt feel it was 
reasonable to expect NFU to call Mrs W back as she had suggested.
The Investigator explained the policy required a policyholders own solicitors to have 
costs agreed in advance of actions so the insurer can manage costs  which didnt 
happen here. She said the policy was clear it would provide cover to defend an 
insureds legal rights prior to the issue of legal proceedings in a court or tribunal 
following the dismissal or the resolution of unfair dismissal disputes under the ACAS 
Arbitration Scheme  and was clear that disciplinary hearings or internal grievance 
procedures werent covered. As Mrs W was still employed at the time of the 
settlement being negotiated, and no legal proceedings had taken place, she felt NFU 
had declined the claim fairly. 
She also commented that the matter was unlikely to meet the requirement of having 
reasonable prospects of success  which was required under the policy. And that 
part of the settlement reached between Mrs W and Company A related to business 
interests, which fell outside of the scope of cover of personal legal expenses. 
The Investigator found no issue with NFUs handling of two SAR requests. She said 
NFU hadnt been told of any additional needs to cater for  so she wasnt persuaded 
it failed to make reasonable adjustments. She was satisfied any internal policies were 
commercially sensitive and wouldnt need to be shared with policyholders. And that 
arbitration was an option for Miss F to pursue but typically rights to this Service would 
be given first as we are a free service and arbitration can be expensive.
The Investigator also considered NFUs delays in responding to Mrs Ws 
representative. In light of the impact being limited to the representative and not the 
policyholder  she said we had no power to award compensation.
Mrs W disagreed with the assessment, saying she hadnt received policy documentation 
since taking the policy out many years before so NFU shouldnt be able to rely on terms from 
later policy books. She also raised that arbitration shouldve been offered.
The investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. She said the arguments around 
documentation were new, but it was unclear why Mr and Mrs W had continued to keep a 
policy for around 15 years without knowing the details or premium cost. She also reiterated 
that arbitration costs would be met by the losing party, which is why Mrs W was referred to 
this Service in the first instance. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The nature of my role is that I must assess the evidence from an independent and impartial 
perspective and reach a decision I consider fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
That may mean at times I may sound matter of fact or dispassionate. I want to be clear I 
mean no disrespect by this, its simply the nature of my role.
Mr and Mrs Ws submissions are also extensive. Within this decision I wont be responding 
in similar detail. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection of the informal nature 
of our Service. My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be which 
means I will only comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to 
make. That may also mean I dont comment on everything Mr and Mrs W have said but I can 
confirm I have read and considered everything provided by all parties.Notification of claim
Mrs Ws policy says it excludes legal costs incurred without NFUs written 
acceptance of a claim and claims where NFU hasnt been notified within a 
reasonable time which impacts the reasonable prospects of the claim or has 
prejudiced its position. 
Our Investigator has shared the details of the call note from February 2020. This 
clearly says Mrs W would seek advice from ACAS then call NFU back if she wanted 
to go ahead with a claim. I take on board Mrs Ws argument that a second call may 
have been lost or not recorded. But I have to consider what was most likely based on 
the available evidence. And in these circumstances, it seems most likely to me a 
second call didnt take place given the absence of call notes and call recording.
So, it seems most likely to me that Mrs W first notified NFU of the costs shed 
incurred and sought to claim in October 2020  long after the costs were incurred 
and without written acceptance. So, Im satisfied NFU is correct in saying Mrs Ws 
late notification to NFU, and after the costs were incurred without its input, is against 
the terms of the policy.
Ill go on to consider if this has prejudiced NFUs position and whether it has fairly 
declined the claim in the circumstances.
The claim
Mrs Ws policy says it covers disputes related to the insured persons contract of 
employment that could be heard in an employment tribunal or court of law. It goes on 
to detail it will cover the legal rights prior to the issue of legal proceedings in a court 
or tribunal following the dismissal of an employee or the resolution of an unfair 
dismissal dispute under the ACAS Arbitration Scheme.
In this case  Mrs W was never dismissed from her role and remained employed until 
around July 2020 following an agreed settlement. The matter also never was 
considered under the ACAS Arbitration Scheme. 
The policy also says claims related to employers disciplinary hearings or internal 
grievance procedures are not covered. 
Mrs W has argued this dispute was beyond an internal grievance procedure and a 
threat of constructive dismissal. And Ive taken all of the commentary around this into 
account. But in line with our Investigators comments, Im in agreement that Mrs Ws 
complaint to Company A  through the internal grievance procedure  led to the 
subsequent mutually agreed settlement, without need for the matter to escalate to 
legal proceedings. So, I think NFUs decision to decline the costs is fair in these 
circumstances and in line with the policy terms.
Other issues
Mrs W has argued NFU shouldve taken further steps to support her given her 
vulnerability. Im not persuaded that any further needs were asked of NFU, and its 
decision to not pursue Mrs W after enquiring about an LEI claim were reasonable. 
I think NFUs decision to not share any internal policy around vulnerable consumers 
was a reasonable one within its role as an insurer.
Mrs W is unhappy that SARs contained redacted information. Ive been given nothing 
that persuades me that NFU either made a mistake in redacting information, or that it 
didnt do so within a reasonable timeframe. Im satisfied NFU did not respond to Mrs Ws representative as quickly as it perhaps 
shouldve done. But, as our Investigator has outlined, this Service does not have the 
power to award compensation for any mistakes to third parties. And given the limited 
impact on Mrs W for any service issues Ive seen, Im not persuaded to make any 
compensatory award here.
Mrs Ws representative has said its significant that arbitration was not offered by 
NFU. NFU has given a clear explanation on this matter as to why referral rights were 
given to this Service, and that arbitration remained an option if she wished to pursue 
this. I see nothing unusual or unreasonable about its direction in this instance and I 
dont consider this to be a mistake or failing on NFUs part.
I cant see Mrs Ws points about the availability of policy documentation were raised 
with NFU previously, but in any case, it hasnt changed my mind as it hasnt changed 
the facts of the case or how the claim was handled.
My final decision
For all of the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman