DRN-3490004
The complaint
Mr L complains that when PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA implemented new rules on 
authenticating customers, he had trouble accessing his PayPal account and was excluded 
because he didnt have a mobile phone to receive codes to.
What happened
Mr L says that when PayPal made changes to the way a customer accesses their account, 
he experienced difficulties and often couldnt login. The changes meant he could no longer 
access his account by simply using his email address and entering his password; he was 
required to also confirm a phone number linked to his account by receiving a code via SMS 
text message.
When he contacted PayPal in March 2020 he was told theyd made changes to the way 
customers access their accounts in response to the Payment Services Directive (PSD2) 
which brought in a requirement for payment service providers to implement two-factor or 
strong customer authentication (SCA), and that hed need to keep his phone details up to 
date in his account profile. They said:
In most instances youll continue to login or pay with PayPal by entering your email 
address and your PayPal password, as usual. However, we may sometimes ask you 
to enter a one-time passcode which well send by SMS to the phone number youve 
registered with us.
PayPal also told Mr L:
At the moment the only method of PSD2 available is receiving a text. In the future 
more methods of security may be explored but for the moment receiving a text is the 
only method.
As Mr L doesnt have a reliable mobile phone signal where he lives, he wasnt happy with 
this response.
Later in 2020 Mr L was given the option to use his registered landline to complete SCA. But 
he found the system didnt work. When Mr L raised the issue with PayPal again, he says he 
was told that the issue with using his landline to complete SCA might resolve if he closed his 
existing account and opened a new one. But he says that didnt work either. On or around 
17 November 2020, however, Mr L was able to login and request to withdraw his PayPal 
funds (£114.76) to his bank account.
By March 2021 Mr L told us he still couldnt access his account because the only SCA 
method offered by PayPal was mobile phone dependent. Although he didnt have a 
significant balance of funds in the account, he told us he was prevented from selling items 
on an auction and shopping website. He also told us that hed found getting in contact with 
PayPal very frustrating because when he raised written concerns, PayPals replies were 
often sent to his account Message Centre, which he couldnt access as he couldnt login.
In June 2021 Mr L let us know the lockout was a continuing problem for him.
What PayPal told us
PayPal told us they had to make changes to follow the regulations, and that theyd sent an 
update to customers in March 2020 about that. They said Mr L had responded explaining 
that he didnt have a mobile phone, but theyd addressed Mr Ls concerns and tried to 
explain the changes to him. They didnt think he should have had a problem using his 
landline to authenticate.
They also provided a summary of account activity which they said showed Mr L had been 
successfully accessing his PayPal account. That summary covered the period 3 March 2020 
 21 September 2020.
Our investigators view
Our investigator upheld Mr Ls complaint. He said PayPal hadnt acted unfairly by introducing 
SCA but as they hadnt come up with any viable alternatives for Mr L  someone who lives in 
a rural area without reliable mobile phone coverage  they hadnt treated him fairly.
So, given the length of time the matter had been outstanding and the impact of the situation 
on his ability to buy and sell items as he used to, the investigator recommended that PayPal 
compensate Mr L with £250 and offer Mr L a solution so that he can complete SCA 
successfully without reliance on a mobile phone.
Responses to the view
PayPal didnt accept what the investigator had said. They said they didnt think they should 
be held responsible for bad phone service. They added that Mr L had been successfully 
logging into the account hed opened in September 2020. PayPal provided a summary of 
account activity. This suggested that Mr L experienced failed login attempts in October 2020, 
November 2020 and June 2021 but that at other times between September 2020 and 
November 2021 he achieved web login.
PayPal said Mr L had been successfully logging in using just his password and it does not 
appear that he has been prompted to complete additional security check when logging in.
They said any failed logins were due to Mr L entering his password incorrectly, not because 
he couldnt complete SCA.
Our investigator shared PayPals response with Mr L for his comments.
Mr L explained that he had sometimes been able to use what appeared to be an electronic 
loophole to bypass the SCA process, but that this was not always successful and he was 
often unable to pay for services using PayPal because he couldnt receive the passcodes by 
SMS text message or use his landline for SCA. He said that PayPal had implemented SCA 
incrementally and that once two-factor authentication became a requirement at every login, 
he hadnt been able to access his account. He strongly disputed PayPals claim that hed 
been doing so. He said hed been getting to a certain point in the login process and was then 
faced with a wall asking for an authentication code.
Mr L acknowledged that hed been able to continue to buy things via a website to which hed 
previously linked his PayPal account. But he said the major problem he was facing was that 
he couldnt sell items because he couldnt retrieve any monies paid to him via PayPal for 
these items. Mr L said that regardless of PayPals evidence that he had logged in successfully on occasion, the fact remained that hed been unable to complete two-factor 
authentication when it was asked for.
Finally, Mr L let us know he now had an authenticator app installed on his computer and said 
hed be happy to use this to complete two-factor authentication. Our investigator let PayPal 
know this, and after making some adjustments to Mr Ls account in December 2021 which 
allowed him to login without two-factor authentication for a short period, PayPal guided Mr L 
through the process to link the authenticator app. He was then able to complete SCA and 
confirmed to us that he was able to access his account.
Our investigator asked PayPal to reconsider their position regarding paying Mr L 
compensation for what had happened. PayPal declined to pay Mr L any compensation. They 
said it wouldnt be fair for them to pay compensation for Mr Ls poor signal.
Further information
In February 2022 PayPal told our service that there is an issue with customers 
authenticating using a landline phone number, and they dont have a clear timeframe for 
when that will be resolved.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 4 May 2022. I began by setting out the considerations I 
thought relevant to my decision. I wrote:
Im required to determine this complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. When considering what is fair 
and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; 
regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
So, Ill start by setting out what I have identified as the relevant considerations to 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) Reg. 100, which came into force on 
14 September 2019, says that a payment service provider (PSP) must apply strong 
customer authentication where a payment service user accesses its payment 
account online, initiates an electronic payment transaction; or carries out any action 
through a remote channel which may imply a risk of payment fraud or other abuses.
SCA is defined in the PSRs. It means:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are 
independent, in that the breach of one element does not compromise the 
reliability of any other element, and designed in such a way as to protect the 
confidentiality of the authentication data, with the elements falling into two or 
more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);Another relevant consideration is the SCA implementation guidance issued by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in its document Payment Service and Electronic 
Money  Our Approach (June 2019) and related statements.
The FCAs guidance document says:
 it may be necessary for a PSP to provide different methods of 
authentication, to comply with their obligation to apply strong customer 
authentication in line with [PSD2]. For example, not all payment service users 
will possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in 
areas without mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to 
strongly authenticate customers in these situations. (my emphasis)
In its statement of expectations published in September 2019, the FCA also said:
We expect firms to develop SCA solutions that work for all groups of 
consumers. This means that you may need to provide several different 
methods of authentication for your customers. This includes methods that 
dont rely on mobile phones, to cater for consumers who dont have, or wont 
want to use, a mobile phone.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator did and for 
broadly the same reasons; I intend to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Its difficult to reconcile what Mr L has said about how PayPals implementation of 
SCA impacted his access to, and use of, his PayPal account with what PayPal have 
presented in evidence which would suggest his access has been largely unfettered 
by their SCA process. PayPals summaries of account activity are in a spreadsheet 
format and include a column titled Action. In that column against many dates are the 
words web login, and on other dates it says, web login failed or refers to other 
actions associated with resetting passwords. There is also a column titled Visitor ID 
and I note that for the majority of the web login entries there is no corresponding 
data in the Visitor ID column. PayPal havent provided any information about how to 
interpret this spreadsheet, but I think its possible the absence of Visitor ID data 
means that the user couldnt be established on those occasions. I invite PayPal to 
explain more about what they think this spreadsheet shows in response to this 
provisional decision. But I dont currently think this is clear evidence that Mr L has 
been able to login and gain full account access since SCA was introduced. If he had, 
I dont think hed have gone to the lengths he has to make this complaint.
In any event, I have to balance what PayPal say their spreadsheet proves against 
what Mr L has told us, and I find that Mr L has been nothing but consistent in saying 
that hes often been unable to access his PayPal account because hes been unable 
to complete SCA. He ardently maintained this position even when our investigator 
put PayPals evidence of successful web logins to him. He clearly explained that, 
although hed been able to login on occasion, whenever SCA was required he was 
unable to use his account. He described getting so far in the login process and then 
hitting a wall.
Indeed, PayPals own actions support this being the case. PayPal told us they had to make adjustments to Mr Ls account in December 2021 to allow him to login without 
two-factor authentication for a short period (48 hours) so that he could link his 
authenticator app in his accounts security settings. If hed had full access to his 
account, I dont think theyd have needed to make any adjustments so that he could 
do this. PayPal also appear to accept that Mr L has been unable to complete SCA by 
SMS text or landline; theyve told us that when he has been successful logging in its 
not because hes been completing SCA, its been because he wasnt asked to 
complete an additional security check.
Whilst I think PayPal have provided some evidence that Mr L wasnt completely 
excluded from accessing his account between March 2020 and late 2021, Im not 
persuaded that PayPal enabled Mr L to complete SCA during this time and I think 
thats the main point here. Without the adjustment they made in December 2021 
temporarily removing the requirement for two-factor authentication I dont think hed 
have been able to gain full access to his account. The fact that this adjustment was 
necessary does, I think, contradict PayPals position that Mr L was already able to 
access his account fully before December 2021.
So, Im satisfied that, although he may not have been completely excluded from his 
account since March 2020, its more likely than not his use of the account became 
incrementally restricted as hes said it did until December 2021 when PayPal finally 
responded to Mr Ls predicament and assisted him with linking the authenticator app. 
I think this is something PayPal should have done much sooner.
Overall, I dont currently think PayPal acted fairly towards Mr L because they failed to 
offer him a viable alternative to authenticating with a mobile phone, failed to look into 
and resolve the issues Mr L was having with using his landline to authenticate, and 
didnt assist him to set up his account for the authenticator app until we got involved 
and asked them to reach out. Given what the guidance says about businesses 
offering different, viable methods of authentication so that customers who cant rely 
on a mobile phone can authenticate, I think PayPal should have done more for Mr L, 
and earlier. I dont think it was fair of PayPal to adopt the position that as Mr L could 
access his account to some extent they didnt need to do more about his SCA 
concerns or what he was telling them about not being able to receive SMS text 
messages.
Mr L has described how the difficulties hes had accessing his account have 
impacted him. He told us, no login assistance was given to me on the dozens of 
occasions when I contacted the company, and I can see that hes had to make 
multiple attempts to contact PayPal to sort this out. Hes also found himself unable to 
use his PayPal account to make purchases at times, and the unreliability of his 
account access has prevented him from selling items that he wanted to sell on an 
auction and shopping website. As PayPal could, I think, have resolved this for him 
much earlier I agree with the investigator that PayPal should pay Mr L £250 
compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr L accepted my provisional decision. He commented that PayPal had not catered for 
people without mobile phones and said that was a major part of his complaint.
PayPal didnt agree with what Id said. They said the information theyd made available to 
customers explained that if a customer didnt have a mobile or landline telephone number, 
they could continue to access their account by enabling the 2-step verification setting from 
their profile page. This would allow use of the authenticator app. PayPal said, At no time has PayPal not provided this information. They added that Mr L could have linked the 
authenticator app to his account during any of his previous successful logins.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I see no reason to depart from what I said in my provisional decision. I dont 
think the evidence supports PayPals assertion that they gave Mr L viable alternatives to 
authentication by mobile phone long before December 2021. If they had done, then I think 
Mr L would have linked the authenticator app much earlier so that he could enjoy full access 
to his account. When Mr L brought his complaint to us in November 2020, he expressed 
great frustration at being excluded from his account despite multiple attempts at raising his 
troubles with completing SCA directly with PayPal. If hed been able to solve the problem by 
simply linking an authenticator app to his account at that point, I see no reason why he 
wouldnt have done so. He described the situation by March 2021 like so:
the current, absurd position is that, under a bizarre Catch 22, you can only resolve 
the problem of not being able to login by logging in
Indeed, when PayPal responded in July 2021 to our request for information, they 
acknowledged that Mr L had let them know in March 2020 that he wouldnt be able to rely on 
a mobile phone to complete authentication, and they confirmed that their response to him at 
that time was At the moment the only method of PSD2 available is receiving a text. So, I 
dont agree with PayPal that Mr Ls always had a viable alternative for completing SCA.
In that response to us there was no mention that the options for completing SCA had moved 
on since March 2020, and now included an authenticator app. PayPals position was that 
Mr L was still having some success accessing his account, and that they shouldnt be held 
responsible for bad phone service. So I dont think they really addressed the core issue 
which was that Mr L needed an alternative to SMS OTPs because whenever he was 
challenged to complete SCA (even if that wasnt every time he tried to login) he couldnt do 
so.
I remain of the view that PayPal didnt engage with and address the problem Mr L was 
experiencing with SCA until December 2021. And Ill repeat what I said in my provisional 
decision; Im not persuaded that Mr L could have linked the authenticator app to his account 
without PayPals intervention. On 6 December 2021 PayPal told us:
We have made an adjustment to Mr. Ls account which will allow him to log in 
without 2 factor authentication for 48 hours to set up his authenticator app. We have 
reached out to him to advise what steps he needs to complete.
PayPal also told Mr L on that same date:
We have made an adjustment to your account to allow you to add the authenticator 
app 
I think it was this adjustment which resolved Mr Ls situation of not being able to get passed 
the problem of logging on without first logging on, and its a step I think PayPal should have 
taken much earlier.Putting things right
As I explained in my provisional decision Mr L has had unreliable access to his PayPal 
account since March 2020 because when hes been challenged to complete SCA hes been 
unable to do so. Hes been unable to do so because he wasnt helped by PayPal to access a 
viable alternative to SMS OTPs until December 2021. Hes found himself unable to use his 
PayPal account at times and thats caused him inconvenience and distress. As PayPal 
could, I think, have resolved this for him much earlier PayPal should pay Mr L £250 
compensation.
My final decision
For all the reasons set out here, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Ls complaint. PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA should put things right in the way 
Ive set out in the Putting things right  what PayPal needs to do section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman