DRN-4124965
The complaint
Mr T complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM), did not 
execute his limit order to purchase shares when the limit price was reached.
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated 18 April, so 
I wont repeat the detail again here. In brief summary, Mr T placed an online order to 
purchase 3,550 shares in a company, which Ill refer to as P, at a limit price of 510p. He 
says the limit price was reached but HLAM did not trade. 
HLAM said that, although the limit price was observed for around 13 minutes on the morning 
of 7 March, its limit order service didnt trigger so the deal wasnt placed. 
Our investigator concluded the market and the volume of trades on the morning Mr T placed 
his order was unusual enough to satisfy term A12 which sets out that HLAMs service may 
be interrupted, and its services might be variable and that, in these circumstances, HLAM 
isnt liable to Mr T because its service wasnt available. But the investigator thought HLAM 
should still pay Mr T £200 because it failed to provide the reason for the systems failure until 
after this service issued its view.
Mr T didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me. I wasnt minded to uphold the 
complaint and I explained why. I said:
HLAM sets out the risks of placing a limit order in its terms and conditions, and Im 
satisfied these were brought to Mr Ts attention before he placed his limit order. 
HLAM has a limit minding system. It doesnt enter limit orders to the exchange order 
book. Rather, it attempts to trade as soon as practicable once the limit price is 
reached and the order is triggered by its limit minding system. This is explained in its 
terms which say:
After the share price reaches the limit price or stop price you set we will attempt to 
place your deal in the market. However, share prices can change in seconds and if a 
share price has moved by the time we attempt to place your deal it may not be 
executed at the price you have set, or at all.
I think HLAM makes it reasonably clear that it cannot guarantee a limit order will be 
executed. It says:
Hargreaves Lansdown cannot guarantee that your stop loss or limit order will be 
executed, even if the share price reaches the limit price or stop price you have set. If 
you are not comfortable with this, you should not use this service.
And it goes on to explain that there may be a number of factors which prevent a limit 
order being executed, such as market conditions.
It also says that:
We do not accept any liability for any loss or potential loss you may suffer if there is 
a delay in execution of a limit or stop loss order, a stop loss order is executed below 
the stop price or there is a failure to execute a limit or stop loss order.
So, when Mr T placed his limit order, Im satisfied he should have been reasonably 
aware that there were no guarantees it would execute, even if the limit price was 
reached, and that HLAM wouldnt be liable if the limit order didnt execute. 
But Ive gone on to think about whether HLAM treated Mr T fairly in the 
circumstances, particularly taking into account that the limit price requested by Mr T 
was reached.
The limit price was reached for around 13 minutes on the morning of 7 March 2022. 
This would ordinarily be enough time to reasonably expect Mr Ts limit order to be 
triggered and placed with the market. 
But HLAM has told us there were exceptional market conditions that day which 
meant its system didnt trigger. Mr T has quite rightly pointed out that HLAM is 
required to stress test its systems. But there were a number of factors on the morning 
of 7 March 2022 which lead me to conclude that market conditions were 
unprecedented, as HLAM has claimed, and that it wasnt unreasonable that its 
system came under strain, despite it having been stress-tested. 
HLAM has explained that Russias invasion of Ukraine saw high volumes of sales on 
3 and 4 March and that these reached their peak in the first hour of trading on 7 
March. Its provided data which shows that:
The daily volume of trades completed by HLAM was around twice what it would 
typically expect.
The volume of trades completed by HLAM in the first hour of trading was around 
two and half times what it would typically expect.
Of all the limit orders that were successfully traded on 7 March, almost 75% were 
dealt during the first hour of trading.
HLAM has provided a spreadsheet which records all quotes (clients who 
requested a quote, but didnt proceed further), errors (where HLAM couldnt get 
a quote from the market), trades (where the client received a quote and went 
onto trade), and non-trades (where the client received a quote, asked to trade, 
but the trade was rejected by the market). This record has 32,500 entries for the 
13 minutes that P was at Mr Ts requested limit. 
Im satisfied that the unprecedented market conditions, and volumes being 
experienced by HLAM, reasonably reduced the chances of Mr Ts limit order being 
triggered. In the circumstances, I dont find HLAM treated Mr T unfairly in not 
compensating him for his limit order not being dealt. 
Mr T says HLAM should have warned him that it was experiencing unprecedented 
dealing volumes in line with its terms which say it will:
inform our clients about any material difficulties relevant to carrying out orders 
promptly upon becoming aware of the difficulty. 
Whilst volumes were high on the two working days before 7 March, HLAM hasnt made us aware that this led to any difficulties in it fulfilling its clients orders. And, 
whilst it may have expected volumes to remain high on 7 March, I dont think HLAM 
had enough information for it to know in advance just how high the volumes would be 
on that day and how this might impact its ability to place orders and, specifically, the 
performance of its limit minding system. I can also see that it successfully traded 
other limit orders, which shows that it was able to fulfil some of its clients limit orders. 
Whilst this wont be of consolation to Mr T, the fact that it was still able to successfully 
trade other limit orders doesnt suggest there was a general problem with it being 
able to place orders promptly. So I dont find it reasonably had an obligation to notify 
Mr T of any material difficulties.
Our investigator recommended HLAM should still pay compensation of £200 to Mr T 
for failing to explain to him why his limit order wasnt placed. Whilst it would have 
been helpful for HLAM to give Mr T a fuller explanation for why his limit order wasnt 
triggered, I dont find HLAM treated Mr T unfairly or unreasonably in failing to carry 
out his limit order. And for that reason, I cant order it to pay compensation to Mr T for 
any distress or inconvenience he was caused.
Mr T didnt agree, saying that I hadnt understood his complaint and had confused market 
risk with the failure of HLAMs systems. He said, in summary, that:
He accepts there is a market risk of trades not being dealt and that HLAM isnt liable for 
this.
HLAM is responsible for its limit minding system, and it was this system that failed. He 
should be compensated because its system failed and wasnt fit for purpose.
HLAMs terms say that it will attempt to place an order in the market when the limit price 
is reached. It breached these terms because it made no attempt to place his order. If the 
order had been attempted, it would have been filled.
HLAM withheld information about its limit minding service, and he didnt receive an 
apology.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr T said in response to my provisional decision. But it 
doesnt change my conclusion.
I agree with him that HLAMs system didnt attempt to place Mr Ts order. But that was due 
to the market conditions at the time. I dont find this means HLAMs system wasnt fit for 
purpose  as I explained in my provisional decision, the market conditions were 
unprecedented.
HLAM doesnt guarantee limit orders will be placed. And Im satisfied that conditions were 
such that it wasnt unreasonable that Mr Ts limit order wasnt placed. Ive already set out 
HLAMs terms which explain there are a number of factors, including market conditions, 
which might lead to a limit order not being placed. And that in such circumstances, it doesnt 
accept liability for any loss.In my provisional decision, I said that it would have been helpful had HLAM given a full 
explanation of why Mr Ts limit order wasnt placed in reply to his complaint. But Im not 
persuaded it purposely withheld information as Mr T suggests.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman