DRN-3005003
The complaint
Mr B complains that James Hay Administration Company Ltd (James Hay) has failed to 
implement the terms of a divorce Consent Order to pension savings he holds jointly with his 
ex-wife.
What happened
Mr B and his wife were divorced in 2004. At that time they were joint beneficiaries of an 
IPS Pension Builder policy  a form of self-invested personal pension (SIPP) that had been 
opened in 1998 and received contributions from both parties over the years. As part of their 
divorce agreement, a consent order was granted that stated Mr B and his ex-wife agreed to 
continue to be entitled jointly to all their benefits under the pension plan in equal shares.
In July 2018 Mr B and his ex-wife decided to take their pension commencement lump sum 
(PCLS  otherwise known as tax free cash). At that time James Hay informed them that 
scheme rules required that their benefits be split in line with the value of their respective 
contributions. So James Hay calculated that Mr B was entitled to 95% of the value of the 
pension savings.
Mr B questioned that decision with James Hay. He said that approach did not meet the 
terms of the consent order that required the benefits to be shared equally. But James Hay 
advised that it wasnt the consent order that provided it with the legal authority to alter the 
split of the pension benefits. It said that it required an additional document from the Courts 
called a Pension Sharing Annex.
Mr B didnt agree. He thought that there could be no other reasonable interpretation placed 
on the consent order wording and that James Hay should follow its directions. But, after 
taking advice from its legal team James Hays position remained unchanged. So Mr B 
brought his complaint to this Service.
The complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that it was 
reasonable for James Hay to request, and receive, a pension sharing annex document in 
order to change the distribution of the pension benefits. So he didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. But he has recently told us that he has now obtained 
a pension sharing annex document that I assume he has shared with James Hay. But, as 
this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. This is the last stage of our process.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by James Hay. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
A pension sharing order is made by the Courts as part of a divorce settlement. Here, I can 
see that the Court authorised a consent order in 2004 when Mr B and his wife divorced. As 
part of that order Mr B and his wife agreed to share their pension benefits equally.
But pensions are valuable assets, and so are governed by substantial regulations to ensure 
that the tax benefits they provide are dealt with fairly, and consumers do not gain undue tax 
advantages from their use. So pension providers need to ensure that the actions they take in 
regard to pension savings are in accordance with all the relevant regulations. A failure to do 
so might leave both the provider and the consumer liable to an unauthorised pension 
withdrawal taxation charge of up to 55%.
James Hay and Mr B agree that the terms of the consent order are clear  that the pension 
benefits should be shared equally between him and his wife. But unfortunately that wasnt 
the way in which their SIPP benefits had been structured when the pension plan was first 
taken out. Within the overall policy were actually two separate pension plans  one for the 
benefit of Mr B and one for the benefit of his wife. And when contributions were made to 
those plans they were added based on who had paid them.
What that meant is that when Mr B and his ex-wife asked to take their PCLS in 2018, Mr B 
was entitled to receive 95% of the benefits under the rules of their pension policy. For 
James Hay to override that allocation, without the relevant regulatory authority might have 
led to the sort of penalty tax charges that Ive mentioned above.
James Hay has explained that a consent order does not provide it with the regulatory 
authority to make changes to how pension benefits are distributed. It says that it is a 
document called a Pension Sharing Annex that provides the necessary authority. Whilst I in 
no means can claim to be an expert in these matters I have no reason to doubt the 
information that James Hay has provided  and that view is supported by the legal team of 
the business.
So I dont think James Hay acted unreasonably in asking Mr B to provide that additional 
document before it paid the PCLS in accordance with the directions in the consent order. It 
seems to me the pension sharing annex would be necessary for James Hay to allow Mr Bs 
ex-wife to benefit from pension savings that she was not originally entitled to receive, without 
incurring any tax penalties.
I note that Mr B has recently told us that he has now obtained a pension sharing annex from 
the Courts. And so I trust that will now allow him, and his ex-wife, to receive the PCLS 
payments that they previously requested. I appreciate that request was first made almost 
four years ago, but I dont think it was unreasonable for James Hay to not make the 
payments, in equal shares, without a pension sharing annex document being provided.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
James Hay Administration Company Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman