DRN-1084381
 
The complaint
Miss H complains that Zenith Insurance plc cancelled her motor insurance policy. Zenith is 
the underwriter of Miss Hs policy. Reference to Zenith includes reference to its agents.
What happened
In September 2018, Miss H took out a motor insurance policy with Zenith and arranged to 
pay the premium by monthly direct debit. Miss H says that in April 2019, her bank made an 
error, which meant that there wasnt enough money in her account to pay the April 2019 
direct debit. She contacted Zeniths agent to make the April 2019 payment by card. Theres 
a dispute about what was said and done during that phone call, which Ill refer to in more 
detail below. The result of that call was that the April 2019 payment wasnt made. 
In May 2019, Zenith gave Miss H notice that it intended to cancel her policy and it was 
subsequently unable to collect the direct debit due in May 2019, as Miss H had cancelled the 
direct debit. Zenith cancelled Miss Hs policy on 31 May 2019 and later, passed the debt to 
debt recovery agents.  
Miss H says that when she phoned to pay the April 2019 payment, the member of staff she 
spoke with was not very pleasant and hung up on her. She says that she then called her 
bank, which told her that Zenith had processed the payment incorrectly as a recurring 
payment, rather than a one-off. Miss H says that she made sure there was enough money in 
her account on 7 May 2019, but Zenith didnt collect the payment. She says that Zeniths 
response to her complaint was to cancel her policy, which was very stressful, as she needs 
to drive her car for work. Miss H says that she had to take out alternative insurance, which 
cost her more. She acknowledges that she owes the missing April 2019 payment but nothing 
more. 
Miss H wants her personal data removed from Zeniths systems and no more contact from it. 
She wants the cancellation removed from her records and compensation of £200, less the 
April 2019 missed payment, to cover the additional cost of her new policy, stress, time taken 
to resolve the matter and phone calls. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that thered been an 
error on the insurers part when Miss H tried to pay direct. The investigator said that Miss H 
had numerous opportunities to bring payment up to date. He didnt think that Miss H had 
been treated unfairly. 
Miss H didnt agree with the investigator. She said shed sent letters that confirmed that the 
error wasnt made by her and yet Zenith cancelled her policy for no reason. Miss H asked 
why Zenith didnt try to take the direct debit again on 7 May 2019, as she was told it would. 
Miss H subsequently provided redacted screen shots of her bank account that show a 
payment by her bank which she explained was compensation for its initial error and the her balance at the relevant time. She asked that careful attention be given to the phone call she 
made when she tried to pay the missing April 2019 payment. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive listened carefully to the recording of the phone call when Miss H tried to make the 
payment for April 2019. I dont agree that the member of staff was unpleasant. She 
explained that it would have tried to collect the direct debit again on 7 May 2019 but she 
could instead take the missing payment by the card it had on its records and could collect 
the £10 charge for late payment on 7 May 2019. When the member of staff attempted to 
take the payment, Miss Hs card was declined. 
Miss H says that the bank told her that Zenith had processed the payment incorrectly as a 
recurring payment, rather than a one-off but Ive seen no evidence from the bank to support 
what Miss H says about that. The reason for Miss Hs card being declined isnt clear to me 
but based on what Ive seen, I dont think I can safely say that Zenith made an error or that it 
said it would attempt to collect the April 2019 payment via direct debit on 7 May 2019.  
The call terminated as Miss H was attempting to key in her card number. It doesnt appear to 
me that Zenith terminated the call. It seems more likely than not that the call was terminated 
accidently when Miss H was trying to input her card number. 
Based on what Ive seen and heard, I dont think that I can safely conclude that Zenith 
treated Miss H unfairly or made an error in trying to take her payment by card. Even if I 
concluded that Zenith had made an error, it was open to Miss H to contact Zenith again as 
she knew that the April 2019 payment was outstanding. 
As the payment hadnt been made, Zenith gave Miss H notice that it was going to cancel her 
policy and subsequently did so, which it was entitled to do. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Miss H but there are no grounds on which to uphold her complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Louise Povey
Ombudsman