DRN-3197784
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by Mulberry Wealth Management Limited 
(Mulberry) to transfer the benefits he held in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a 
personal pension. The BSPS was a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme. 
Mr W says the advice was unsuitable for him.
Both Mr W and Mulberry are being represented by third parties. But, for ease of reading this 
decision, Ill largely refer to representations as just having been made by Mr W and 
Mulberry.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In June 2017, Mr W received a transfer value quotation (TVQ) from the trustees of the 
BSPS. This summarised the benefits Mr W was entitled to under the BSPS at that point. It 
also gave the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ws BSPS pension benefits, 
which was £133,114.81.
I understand Mr W first spoke to Mulberry about his BSPS pension in July 2017. Mulberry 
completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ws circumstances and objectives. It 
noted that he was 34, in good health, employed full time and co-habiting with his partner, to 
whom he was engaged. They also had one dependent child together.
In addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr W was also a member of his employers new 
defined contribution pension scheme. He and his employer were making combined 
contributions to this pension equivalent to 20% of his salary, as confirmed by Mr W following 
Mulberry making its recommendation. That pension arrangement had only recently begun 
though and the BSPS benefits made up the majority of his retirement provisions at the time 
of the advice.
The fact-find noted that Mr W hoped to retire at age 55. Mulberry also carried out an 
assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk (ATR), which it deemed to be moderate to 
adventurous or a 4 on a scale of 1 to 5.  
In email correspondence shortly following the initial fact-finding meeting, Mr W indicated an 
income in retirement of around £24,000 per year would be desirable. But he also 
acknowledged that hed need his pensions to perform well for the entire period until his 
retirement to achieve this. 
While Mulberry was gathering information and carrying out analysis, on 11 August 2017, 
Mr Ws employer confirmed the terms of an agreement with the pensions regulator about the 
next steps for separating the BSPS from the company  which had been broadly agreed in 
May 2017 and included a lump sum payment into the pension fund  had been signed. This 
announcement included confirmation that agreement had also been reached about the 
sponsorship, by Mr Ws employer, of the BSPS2.
Then on 25 August 2017, an important update was issued in respect of BSPS transfer 
values. This explained that the expected lump sum payment into the BSPS by Mr Ws 
employer was likely to result in an improvement to transfer values. And for those with 
unexpired transfer values, as in Mr Ws case, updated valuations would be issued around 
October 2017, which would be guaranteed until at least December 2017.
And on 11 September 2017 there was a further announcement, confirming the agreed 
payment had been made into the BSPS by Mr Ws employers and the separation of the 
BSPS from the company had been completed. This set out that members would have to 
make a choice between staying in the BSPS or moving to the BSPS2 and explained that 
personalised information and illustrations would be provided in October 2017 to assist with 
that choice and that members would have until December 2017 to make a decision.
I understand that also on 11 September 2017, Mulberry met with Mr W again. Another 
questionnaire regarding the pension transfer appears to have been completed during that 
meeting (as the version Ive seen was signed on that day). As well as asking Mr W to select 
from a set list of statements to describe his circumstances the questionnaire asked him to 
rank his priorities, also from a pre-drafted list. To which he said increasing his pension was 
his top priority. This was followed by providing a pension for his spouse and dependents and 
the ability to retire early. He placed the security of his pension fourth on the list, with lump 
sum benefits on death before retirement fifth. And maximising tax-free cash (TFC) at 
retirement was the lowest priority.
During the same meeting, Mulberry advised Mr W to transfer his pension benefits and some 
application forms were completed to enable this. A suitability report, also dated 
11 September 2017, was issued confirming Mulberry advised Mr W to transfer his pension 
benefits into a personal pension and invest the proceeds equally across six different funds 
which it felt would create a portfolio that matched his attitude to risk. The report said the 
reasons for this recommendation were that Mr W wanted to transfer his pension away from 
his employer and have control over his investments. And for this reason, hed also ruled out 
joining the BSPS2 because this would mean the ongoing involvement of his employer. It said 
he didnt intend to work for his employer beyond age 58, or potentially 55. Although he 
hadnt ruled out finding employment elsewhere rather than retiring at that age. But he 
wanted flexibility to be able to take benefits when it suited him, at the level he chose.
The report said Mr W was aware his employer had agreed steps with the pensions regulator 
in relation to the BSPS. And this included an imminent lump sum payment into the scheme 
which was expected to result in increases to CETVs. But it said Mr W didnt want to wait for 
this to happen before proceeding with a transfer. It also said that Mr W did not want to wait 
for further details of the BSPS2 to be made available, or for comparisons to the benefits it 
might provide to be carried out, because he was unwilling to join this scheme.
Mulberry said it felt the growth rate required of the new pension to enable Mr W to purchase 
equivalent benefits to the guaranteed ones hed be giving up by transferring, the critical 
yield, was acceptable given his attitude to risk and term to retirement. And it felt a transfer 
was suitable as this:
satisfied his objective of ending his employers involvement in the pension
gave Mr W control over how the pension was invested
provided flexibility in how benefits could be taken  including allowing Mr W to take tax-free cash when he retired without having to begin taking a pension if he so chose
provided death benefits that were more appropriate to his circumstances
As part of the recommendation, Mulberry would provide ongoing support and servicing of 
Mr Ws personal pension, at a cost. I understand the transfer went ahead in line with 
Mulberrys recommendation.
Mr W complained to Mulberry in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He didnt 
think it was suitable for him to transfer and give up guaranteed retirement benefits he held, 
which couldve been kept via the BSPS2. This was because he felt it was unlikely a personal 
pension would be able to match those benefits and he was likely to be worse off as a result 
of the advice. So, he didnt think the recommendation was in his best interests.
Mulberry didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said it wasnt required to guarantee that the 
transfer would be suitable for Mr W when viewed with hindsight. Rather it needed to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the advice was suitable for Mr W at the time. And it felt it had 
done this. Mulberry said Mr W had sourced a CETV before contacting it and had been clear 
he was looking to transfer his pension. It said it thought the evidence available indicated 
Mr W was an intelligent and sophisticated consumer, who was well researched and 
confident in how to handle his investments. It said he had ruled out transferring to the 
BSPS2 because of his opinion of his employer  also adding that the BSPS2 was not 
confirmed at the time of the advice so, in Mulberrys view, was not a genuine option. And 
that he didnt want to move to the PPF. Mulberry said Mr W had been clear that he wanted 
flexibility in how he could access his pension, the ability to retire early before the normal 
scheme retirement age, control over his pension and to move it away from his employer 
whom he did not trust. And Mulberry was satisfied transferring achieved the objectives so 
was suitable.
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. Hes told us that before this transfer hed never 
taken financial advice or had any money to really invest  so was an inexperienced investor. 
He confirmed that he hoped to retire at 55. But he says he didnt suggest the amount of 
£24,000 per year as a retirement income but rather agreed that this amount would likely be 
sufficient after Mulberry suggested this would be its target in its initial meeting with him. He 
also said he didnt, and still doesnt, understand what the lump sum payment into the BSPS 
during the consultation meant for him. He says this wasnt explained to him and, if it had 
been, says he wouldve waited for a revised CETV. Mr W states the BSPS2 was not 
discussed or explored and he was given no real advice about this. All he was aware of was 
that the BPSPS, PPF and the BSPS2 applied penalties for retiring early and, because the 
personal pension didnt, he assumed hed been given sound advice. He denies that hed 
already decided he would transfer before approaching Mulberry. And he says, during the first 
meeting, the adviser provided information about past fund performance and what growth he 
could expect from a personal pension from the provider that they ultimately recommended, 
before even having discussed his circumstances. An investigator upheld the complaint and said Mulberry should compensate Mr W for any 
loss the DB transfer had led to. In summary, while he acknowledged that Mr W may have 
indicated a willingness to take some risk with his pension, our Investigator didnt think 
Mr Ws circumstances meant that he had much capacity for loss. Which he felt meant a 
more cautious approach than the moderate to adventurous ATR Mulberry recorded was 
appropriate. In any event though he didnt think Mr W was likely to be any better off as a 
result of transferring and was in fact likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than 
those he was due under the DB scheme. Given Mr Ws circumstances the Investigator didnt 
think Mr W had genuine need for flexibility or control at the time of the advice. Nor did he 
think transferring in order to achieve alternative death benefits was appropriate. So, he 
thought Mulberry shouldve advised against a transfer and that Mr W wouldve instead 
moved to the BSPS2.
Mulberry didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter. It said it felt the 
Investigator had assessed the case on the wrong basis. It said it wasnt required to 
guarantee that the transfer was suitable for Mr W, which it said was subjective anyway 
particularly with hindsight, which it thought had been unfairly applied. Rather it had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the advice was suitable. Mulberry also said the Investigator had 
placed too much weight on the critical yield and discount rate, noting it wasnt under any 
obligation to refer to the latter. And had not fully considered Mr Ws other objectives, which it 
believed meant the transfer was in his interests. Mulberry said that the BSPS2 was not a 
confirmed option at the time of the advice and to suggest Mr W shouldve joined this when 
there was a risk of this not coming to fruition was unreasonable and not something it felt 
Mr W wouldve agreed to. Mulberry also reiterated it felt Mr W had a strong understanding of 
his options and circumstances and that he had made a fully informed decision to proceed 
with the transfer, which hadnt been taken into account. And it said even if it had advised 
against a transfer, it felt Mr W wouldve proceeded with the transfer anyway.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. He reiterated he was required to 
look at whether the transfer was in Mr Ws best interests. He considered the critical yield to 
be a valid consideration but explained that this wasnt the only reason he thought a transfer 
was unsuitable. And he didnt agree with Mulberrys points relating to the BSPS2, noting that 
further details were released around the time of the advice, which Mulberry should in his 
view have waited for and incorporated into the advice.
As Mulberry didnt agree with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided a lot of information for me to consider. And Id like to reassure 
them that Ive carefully considered all the evidence provided. If I dont comment on or refer to 
everything Ive been sent or that either party have said this isnt meant as a discourtesy or 
because I havent thought about it. Rather, it is because my decision will address what I 
consider to be the key issues in deciding what is fair and reasonable. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and wider circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Mulberry's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Mulberry says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the 
advice was suitable for Mr W. I agree that under COBS Mulberry was required to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that its personal recommendation to Mr W was suitable for him 
(COBS 9.2.1). However, as Ive mentioned above, additional regulations apply to advising on 
transferring out of DB schemes. These additional regulations say that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. And that a business 
should only have considered a transfer out of the scheme if it could clearly demonstrate that 
the transfer was in the customers best interests (COBS 19.1.6). So, Im satisfied, as 
Mulberry was advising on transferring out of a DB scheme, it was required to clearly 
demonstrate that doing so was in Mr Ws best interests. And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
Financial viability 
Mulberry was gathering information and ultimately advised Mr W at a time when there were 
some significant updates being issued about what was happening with the BSPS and the 
BSPS2. This included confirmation that sponsorship of the BSPS2 was planned, that details 
of the scheme would follow and that members would have until December 2017 to make a 
choice. It was also explained that the expected payment into the BSPS by Mr Ws employer 
was likely to result in an improvement to transfer values. And that members with unexpired 
transfer values would be sent updated valuations  again likely improved ones  which 
would be guaranteed until at least December 2017. And the lump sum payment to the BSPS 
was confirmed on the day Mulberry gave Mr W advice.
Mulberry though proceeded with the advice without really accounting for any of these 
developments. There were no comparisons carried out of the benefits the BSPS2 would 
potentially provide. And the advice was based on the CETV Mr W had received in June 
2017, which was due to expire at the end of September 2017.
Mulberry has said that Mr W didnt want to wait for further details or a revised valuation and 
had ruled out the BSPS2 entirely. And it noted as much in the suitability report. But 
Mulberrys role wasnt to facilitate what Mr W mightve thought he wanted. It was to look at 
and advise him about what was in his best interests. Given what information the 
announcements indicated would be forthcoming, in order to give Mr W enough information to 
make a fully informed decision about what was in his best interests, I think Mulberry should 
have told Mr W to defer making a decision on the transfer until further details of the BSPS2 
were known and revised transfer values received. And I note Mr W doesnt agree that his 
mind was made up about the BSPS2  rather he says there was no real discussion about it.Transferring out of a DB scheme is a one-off event. Once transferred there's no going back, 
the benefits of the DB scheme are usually lost forever. The announcements indicated that 
Mr W would be afforded time to think about his options  so the deadline in the original 
transfer quotation became less relevant. And waiting wouldve allowed Mulberry to carry out 
an analysis of the BSPS2 benefits, and properly compare these to the alternatives, and base 
its advice on this. Because I think without doing this, Mulberry was acting on information 
which it knew to be limited, so it is difficult to argue that it could properly assess whether a 
transfer was in Mr Ws best interests.
That notwithstanding, I also dont think, based on the information that Mulberry has provided 
and did consider, that the advice wasnt in Mr Ws best interests from a financial viability 
perspective.
Mulberry has provided copies of several transfer value analysis (TVAS) reports which it 
instructed  as obtaining a TVAS was required by the regulator. These included, amongst 
other things, the calculation of critical yields - how much Mr Ws pension fund would need to 
grow by each year if invested in a personal pension so that he could purchase the same 
benefits as his DB scheme at retirement. Critical yields were calculated based on various 
different scenarios  largely distinguished by the age at which Mr W might retire. But the 
suitability report only referenced critical yields based on him retiring at age 65. Given 
analysis was clearly run and Mr Ws noted goal of potentially retiring early, Id have expected 
to see the critical yield for some of the other scenarios referenced in the suitability report. 
And without these having been discussed, I again think its difficult to say that Mr W was in a 
fully informed position at the time of the advice or that the critical yields were acceptable as 
Mulberry stated.
The critical yield figures calculated were based on matching Mr Ws existing scheme, the 
BSPS, based on the revaluation assumptions noted. But Mr W didnt have the option to 
remain in the BSPS  he either needed to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the scheme to 
the PPF. Again, I think Mulberry ought to have waited until further details of the BSPS2 were 
made available, in order to run the relevant analysis and include this in its advice.
Critical yields were calculated in respect of the PPF. And of the figures in the reports 
Mulberry instructed, these would appear to be the more useful comparisons. But I think even 
these indicate that Mr W was unlikely to be better off as a result of transferring.
The suitability report says that the critical yield required to match the benefits Mr W was 
estimated to be entitled to under the PPF if he retired at 65 and took a full pension, rather 
than exchanging some of his entitlement for tax-free cash, was 4.89%. And to match the 
benefits the existing BSPS was due to provide, the critical yield was said to be 6.35%. These 
were the only figures quoted in the advice to Mr W. 
The critical yield applicable to the BSPS2 benefits wasnt calculated  although again I think 
Mulberry ought to have waited and analysed this before providing its advice. The lower 
annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat in 
comparison to the BSPS. But I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those 
reflecting the PPF benefits and are likely to have been closer to those of the BSPS benefits, 
particularly at age 65.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. The relevant discount rate at the time the 
advice was given was 4.7% per year for 30 full years to retirement, as would be the case 
had Mr W retired at age 65. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at 
the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.Mulberry has said that Mr W had a moderate to adventurous attitude to risk. The description 
of his risk profile given by Mulberry said You are prepared to take a medium degree of risk 
with your investments in return for the prospect of improving longer term performance. 
Suggesting he might hope to receive returns around the middle projection rate. But I can 
also see that the analysis of his attitude to risk from the time of the advice said There is 
21% chance that your attitude to risk is in the Moderate category and <1% chance that your 
attitude to risk is Adventurous suggesting he tended more towards moderate. This pension 
also accounted for the vast majority of his retirement provisions at the time of the advice and 
so at that point, he had very little capacity for loss  again suggesting his appetite for risk 
mayve been more towards moderate. 
Ive taken into account the critical yields, discount rate and its composition of assets, Mr Ws 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr W giving up 
the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same 
level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, that appears to have been the likely outcome 
 that at best he might match the benefits hed have been entitled to under the PPF at age 
65 by investing in line with his attitude to risk. And given what Ive said about the likely 
critical yield for the BSPS2 benefits, it seems likely hed have received benefits of a lower 
overall value than the BSPS2 wouldve provided at age 65. 
As Ive mentioned though, the recommendation was based on Mr W likely retiring before 65 
anyway. Again, Mulberry didnt include any of the relevant critical yields for early retirement 
in the suitability report. But I can see that it calculated, for example, the critical yield required 
to match the benefits the PPF wouldve provided at age 55 was 6.44% if Mr W took a full 
pension at that time. Or, if he took a full pension under the PPF at age 58, the critical yield 
required to match that pension would be 5.89%. 
The discount rates for equivalent times to retirement were 4.5% and 4.6% respectively. And 
the regulators standard projections rates were as previously quoted. So, if he retired early, it 
seems he was even more likely to receive benefits of a significantly lower overall value than 
hed have been due through the PPF at that point. And I think its also likely to have been the 
same case in respect of any benefits hed have been due under the BSPS2.
Mulberry says the critical yield is of limited relevance. And it says Mr W didnt intend to take 
an annuity, making them even less relevant. But Mr W was only 34 at the time of the advice 
so it was approximately 20 years until hed likely be able to take benefits in any form from 
the pension. In that time his circumstances or plans could very well have changed. And it 
was entirely possible that, when he did retire, he may have wanted greater guarantees for 
his income. In any event though, the regulator required Mulberry to consider the rate of 
investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. 
So, I do think an analysis of the critical yield is a relevant consideration here.
Mulberry has also said that referring to the discount rate was not required by the regulator 
when giving advice. So, has suggested our Service is wrong to take this into account. But I 
think it is a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to determine what level of 
growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2 the 
regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme 
with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. The 
discount rate would be considered a reasonable assumption of likely returns. And 
businesses were free to refer to it. So, whilst I agree businesses weren't required to refer to 
these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they are able to do so and I consider 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.The TVAS reports also included estimates at what age the pension fund would run out if 
Mr W transferred to a personal pension, took an income equivalent to that the BSPS would 
provide and the medium rate of growth assumed in the analysis was achieved. These 
estimated that for retiring at age 65 the fund would run out by age 77, for retiring at age 58 
the fund would run out by age 71 and if Mr W retired at 55 and took this course of action, the 
fund would run out by age 69. All significantly before Mr W would reach his average life 
expectancy. Whereas under the DB scheme the income would be guaranteed for the entire 
of Mr Ws life. While again I acknowledge that Mr W couldnt have remained in the BSPS, so 
the guaranteed benefits from either the PPF or the BSPS2 were likely to be slightly different, 
I dont think the time the fund would last for would be significantly greater in these scenarios. 
And this, in my view, further illustrates it was likely that hed receive benefits of a significantly 
lower overall value in his retirement by transferring compared to remaining in the DB 
scheme.
Mulberry highlighted the past performance of the portfolio it recommended to Mr W in the 
suitability report and noted that the average returns over the previous five years were 
enough to match the critical yields it quoted. But as Mulberry will know, past performance is 
no guarantee for future performance and so I consider the discount rates and the regulators 
standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting 
historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time.
So, based on the information that is available, from a financially viability perspective, I dont 
think a transfer was in Mr Ws best interests. Mulberry said in the suitability report that Mr W 
was prepared to accept a potentially lower income compared to the BSPS2 or PPF. 
Suggesting that it was aware that the transfer might not result in Mr W being better off but it 
felt there were other reasons that made the transfer suitable. And it says Mr W was aware of 
and accepted this risk. But Im not sure the potential for lower overall retirement benefits was 
made as clear as it shouldve been. And making Mr W aware of risk doesnt mean it was 
suitable advice to recommend that he take that risk. In any event though, as Ill explain, I 
dont think the other reasons for transferring meant it was in his best interests to do so.
Flexibility 
The fact find noted that Mr Ws objective was to retire at age 55. A desire for early retirement 
was also reflected in the suitability report, although it was noted that Mr W may in fact leave 
his current employer but find a different job while he phased into retirement. And Mr W 
agrees that the goal he was most interested in at the time was the ability to retire early. But 
while Im satisfied that this was on balance an objective that was likely discussed, Mr W was 
only 34 at the time of the advice. It was over 20 years until he could think about accessing 
his pension benefits at all. I dont doubt he was interested in retiring early if possible  I think 
most consumers would be when asked. But I dont think those plans were finalised  which 
is supported by the mention of potentially moving to a different job at age 55 or 58, rather 
than retiring fully. His plans could well have been subject to change, just as his 
circumstances and needs may have altered. 
Mr W was also able to take benefits early under either the PPF or the BSPS2. So, I dont 
think he needed to transfer in order to access his pension early. 
It is true that if Mr W drew his benefits before age 65 under either the PPF or the BSPS2 the 
amount he could take would be subject to an actuarial reduction. And Mr W has said he was 
concerned hed incur penalties for retiring early through the DB scheme. But an actuarial 
reduction is to reflect the pension benefits being paid for longer. The starting monetary 
amount when compared with the full pension payable from age 65  the normal scheme 
retirement age  wouldve been less. But by taking benefits at say age 55 Mr W wouldve 
been receiving his pension for ten years longer. It was a trade-off, rather than a penalty. The suitability report didnt refer to penalties. Rather it said the pension would be reduced 
because it would be paid for longer, which is correct. But it didnt give monetary examples  
just the percentage by which the pension could be reduced. And more importantly, as Ive 
already mentioned, it didnt explain what the critical yields were for retiring early. And that 
Mr W was always likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than those hed be due 
under the DB scheme for early retirement. And while taking benefits flexibly under a 
personal pension would allow Mr W to decide the level of his income without penalty the 
amount he could take was entirely dependent on the sum available under the pension plan. 
The income he took would deplete the plan  and as Ive already mentioned, if he attempted 
to match the benefits the DB scheme would provide, appear likely to have been 
unsustainable. Whereas the DB scheme benefits, regardless of which point they started, 
were guaranteed for life. And I think if all of this information had been provided in a more 
clear and balanced way, Mr W would have been in a more informed position about the 
penalties for early retirement, and he mightve been more willing to accept the reductions 
the DB scheme would apply.
Mulberry says Mr W wanted an income of £24,000 per year in retirement and that the 
flexibility offered by a personal pension was important to make that possible. Mr W though 
says he didnt have an income figure in mind when he contacted Mulberry and the mention 
of this only came about, in emails following the initial meeting, after Mulberry suggested at 
the initial meeting this was the income he should target.
Again, Mr W was over 20 years from potential retirement. So, I dont think his needs in 
retirement were entirely known. I also note when this level of income was first mentioned, 
Mr W even noted that to achieve this he realised his pension would have to perform 
particularly well  so it might be unlikely. This coupled with the fact that in the suitability 
report, Mulberry said Mr W was prepared to accept a potentially lower income compared to 
the BSPS2 or PPF I think indicates that this wasnt a need but a nice to have and that 
Mr W was realistic this might not be achievable.
The information from the time also doesnt support that this level of income was likely to be 
sustainable as a result of transferring. The income modellers Ive been provided show that if 
5% growth was achieved  which was by no means guaranteed  and Mr W began drawing 
an income of £22,000 per year (less than Mulberry says he wanted) from the pension from 
age 58, with this income increasing in line with inflation, the fund would be entirely depleted 
by age 70. Or that if he did the same from age 60, the fund would run out by age 73. And as 
Ive already explained, the projections in the TVAS reports suggested that trying to match 
the starting income that the BSPS wouldve provided on early retirement (which was a lot 
less than £22,000 or indeed the £24,000 which Mr W apparently wanted) would likewise 
result in the fund being depleted before Mr W reached his average life expectancy. 
The suitability report acknowledges that Mulberry had not taken into account the potential 
income from Mr Ws new pension with his employer or his partners income when looking at 
future income. But if Mulberry believed the transfer to be in his best interests in order to 
achieve his goals, Id have expected some calculation that showed this was achievable. But 
the information Ive seen does not support that it was. So, I cant see that transferring 
wouldve enabled him to meet this goal anyway, even if I thought it was a genuine need. 
And once again, the information Ive seen indicates Mr W was unlikely to improve his 
pension benefits as a result of transferring. So, it seems hed have likely had a better chance 
of achieving his retirement objectives through a combination of the guaranteed pension his 
DB scheme provided, flexible benefits from his new defined contribution pension and his 
state pension.Ultimately, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation, or in his best interests, for Mr W to 
give up his guaranteed benefits when he did  particularly bearing in mind it appears he was 
always unlikely to be able to match the benefits hed be due under the DB scheme. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension might have been an attractive feature to Mr W  although I note 
when he was asked to rank his priorities, he placed an ongoing pension for his spouse and 
dependents ahead of lump sum death benefits. But in any event, whilst I appreciate death 
benefits are important to consumers, the priority here was to advise Mr W about what was 
best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. And I dont think Mulberry explored to what extent Mr W was prepared to accept 
a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr W 
and his partner had a child, so the dependents pension provided by the DB scheme 
wouldve been useful. He and his partner were also engaged to be married. So, it appears 
likely that the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme would also have become useful 
to Mr W and his dependents, if he predeceased them. I dont think Mulberry made the value 
of this benefit clear enough to Mr W. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was. The sum remaining on death following a transfer, as well as being dependent 
on investment performance, wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr W drew in his 
lifetime. And again, as the cashflow analysis shows, there may not have been a large sum 
left and in fact the fund may have been depleted entirely, particularly if Mr W lived a long life. 
And given he was recorded as being in good health, there wasnt anything to suggest he 
was unlikely to live until his average life expectancy at least. In any event, Mulberry should 
not have encouraged Mr W to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
The new pension scheme Mr W was a member of through his employer also provided 
alternative death benefits to that of the DB scheme. And if Mr W genuinely wanted to leave a 
further legacy for family, which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his 
pension fund remained on his death, life insurance would appear to have been an option. 
Given his age and apparent good health it appears likely this couldve been obtainable at a 
reasonable price. But I cant see that Mulberry explored this.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W.
Control and concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Mulberry says that Mr W wanted control over his pension and a clean break from his 
employer as there was significant mistrust based on how the pension had been handled. It 
also says he had ruled out a move to the BSPS2. Mr W disputes that he had ruled out 
moving to the BSPS2 and says there was no significant discussion around this. 
I dont doubt Mr W, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His 
employer had been consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time. And the 
announcements in the run up to Mulberry providing him advice indicated he was going to 
need to make a choice about this  which I doubt is something hed done or contemplated 
before. Mr W had likely heard negative things about what could happen, including entry into the 
PPF. And he mayve expressed a preference for more direct control because of this. Its also 
quite possible that Mr W was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of his 
concerns. I agree that Mr W was likely unhappy with how things had turned out and that he 
mayve been sceptical of how his employer would handle things moving forward. And 
indeed, Ive seen an email from after the advice was given discussing the transfer of funds, 
supporting this. But that was why it was even more important for Mulberry to give Mr W an 
objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
Mulberry has argued that Mr W was an intelligent and sophisticated customer, with a good 
understanding of his options. Mr W, like his colleagues, had been given a lot of information 
about the BSPS in the months before taking advice. I dont doubt hed taken the time to take 
all of that information on board, discussed it with colleagues or used other avenues of 
support his employer had provided in order to form an understanding of the situation. And he 
may well have had a firm understanding of the position and his options. But the information 
Ive seen indicates that otherwise, he was an inexperienced investor. 
Although Mulberry disagrees, I dont see that Mr W had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage his pension funds on his own. Indeed, as part of the recommendation 
Mulberry was to provide ongoing servicing and advice to Mr W. 
Im also conscious that while Mulberry says Mr W was keen for a clean break, he still 
worked for the same employer. And hadnt suggested he intended to find alternative 
employment until significantly later in his life. He was also a member of the new defined 
contribution pension scheme his employer provided. So, he wasnt going to achieve a clean 
break by transferring, as he would remain tied to the employer in other respects. And I think 
it also shouldve been talked about with more clarity that his employer and the pension 
scheme trustees were not one and the same.
So, I think Mr Ws desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated  and it was 
simply a consequence of transferring away from the DB scheme.
And on the subject of financial stability, I think Mulberry couldve done a lot more to allay any 
concerns. As Ive explained, I think Mulberry should have waited before confirming its advice 
so that the option of the BSPS2 couldve been fully considered and explained. Prior to the 
advice being given there were several important updates regarding the BSPS2 that indicated 
it was progressing and appeared likely to be an option for customers in Mr Ws position. So, 
the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr W through the BSPS2 into 
account. Which, as Ive said, it appears he was unlikely to improve upon by transferring. And 
I think this shouldve alleviated some of the concerns Mr W mightve had about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
Mulberry argued this had already been ruled out by Mr W. But given a great deal of the 
updates relating to the BSPS2 came about while the advice process was ongoing, I dont 
think its likely that Mr W had entirely discounted this option  as he was unlikely to have had 
sufficient detail to do so. And even if he did have a negative perception of the BSPS2 before 
speaking to Mulberry, again its role wasnt just to put in place what Mr W mightve thought he 
wanted. In any event, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Mulberry 
shouldve reassured Mr W that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr W through the PPF, while a reduction on what hed 
have been due under the BSPS, was still guaranteed and not subject to investment risk. And 
he was unlikely to improve on the pension benefits the PPF wouldve provided by 
transferring out. And this guaranteed income wouldve given him a solid foundation for 
retirement, which he could build on through contributions to his employers new pension 
arrangements. So, I dont think that any concerns Mr W mightve had about the PPF 
shouldve led to Mulberry recommending he transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments
Mulberry recommended that Mr W invest in a set of funds through the personal pension 
which it said meant that the portfolio would be appropriate for his attitude to risk. As Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable 
for Mr W, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr W should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for alternative death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr W. But 
Mulberry wasnt there to just transact what Mr W might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to understand Mr Ws circumstances, separate his potential concerns 
stemming from the ongoing uncertainty and unconfirmed potential plans from his genuine 
needs and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. His needs in retirement were 
largely unknown. By transferring, he was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing 
income. And this action was irreversible. Mr W was also, in my view, always likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits as a result of transferring. And I dont think there were any other 
reasons which justified the transfer and outweighed this  particularly given how far away 
from making any real decisions about retirement Mr W was. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ws 
best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension. And I think Mulberry 
shouldve first recommended that he defer making a decision until further details of the 
BSPS2 were available and ultimately advised him against transferring.
Mr W had over 20 years before he expected to retire. So, while he indicated he was 
interested in retiring early I dont think he could say with any certainty what his needs in 
retirement would likely be. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the 
reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF. I say this because 
while it is true the PPF wouldve provided a more favourable reduction for very early 
retirement, because his plans were not confirmed, there was no guarantee the reduction he 
accepted would end up being offset by this more favourable reduction. And by opting into the 
BSPS2, Mr W wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his 
retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was 
also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think if Mulberry had correctly advised him 
against transferring Mr W wouldve opted into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr W would've gone ahead anyway, against 
Mulberry's advice. Mulberry argues that this is the case, saying he was made aware of the 
risks and made an informed choice. It also noted he had obtained a CETV before taking 
advice and was motivated to move his pension away from his employers control.Ive considered this carefully. But Im not persuaded that Mr W wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Mulberrys advice. 
Mr W had obtained a CETV from the trustees of the BSPS before speaking to Mulberry. But 
hed also been told by that point about significant potential changes to the BSPS and that 
hed likely have to make a choice at some point. Obtaining a CETV allowed him to make an 
informed choice. But I dont think this means his mind was already made up.
I dont doubt that Mr W likely had a negative opinion of his employer at that time in respect of 
the pension arrangements, given what had happened to that point. And I think he had likely 
put a lot of thought to the information hed been given and may even have gone into the 
discussion leaning towards transferring. But Mr W still worked for the employer and hadnt 
indicated an intention to stop. So, I dont think the relationship and trust was as irretrievably 
broken down as Mulberry has suggested. Again, he wasnt obtaining a clean break through 
a transfer, as Mulberry has again suggested. And his employer and the pension scheme 
trustees were not one and the same.  
And while I accept that Mulberry disclosed risks associated with transferring to Mr W and 
provided him with information about this in the suitability report, that isnt a substitute for 
suitable advice. And ultimately Mulberry advised Mr W to transfer his benefits, and I think 
Mr W relied on that advice.
While I dont doubt Mr W had done his research, he was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for the majority of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Mulberry had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice. Im not persuaded that Mr Ws concerns 
about the consultation or the PPF, or the potential appeal of control, alternative death 
benefits and flexibility were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a 
professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him 
or in his best interests. And if Mulberry had explained Mr W had no real reason to take on 
additional risk or give up the guarantees he was entitled to and that he was unlikely to 
exceed the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 or PPF if he transferred out, I think 
that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think hed have gone against the advice.
In light of the above, I think Mulberry should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Mulberrys unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W 
would have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension 
if he'd been given suitable advice. So, Mulberry should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 
for comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr W whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance / rules to come into effect. He didnt make 
a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case Mr W doesnt want to wait for the 
new guidance to come into effect. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr W. 
Mulberry must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr W has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
Mulberry may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ws contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date Mulberry receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Mulberry to pay Mr W.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Mulberry to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Mulberry Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Mulberry Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr W any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Mulberry 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr W any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Mulberry Wealth Management Limited pays Mr W the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Mulberry Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman