DRN-3389897
The complaint
Mr E complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has treated him unfairly in relation to a 
subsidence claim made on his landlord insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
Mr E made a claim for subsidence under his Covea policy. While works were 
undergoing, Mr E had struggled to keep tenants in the property due to the cracking 
and ongoing works.
Mr E says he and Covea discussed matters and reached an agreement to provide 
reduced rent to a new tenant following some temporary repairs. So, he arranged a 
new tenancy with reduced rent (£1,300) until January 2022. He said this was £200 
below the previous monthly rent of £1,500 hed had in place. He shared the tenancy 
agreement with Covea, and it then declined to cover any reduction. This tenant 
moved out around December 2021.
Following Mr Es complaints, Covea has issued two final responses (FRL1 and 
FRL2) concerning this claim and associated rental income.
FRL1 was issued in December 2020 and concerned the rental income and delays.
FRL2 was issued in May 2021. It said the claim for loss of rent until the subsidence 
claim is concluded was rejected on the basis the visible cracking was not a justifiable 
reason to leave it empty. However it agreed the cracking and ongoing repairs may 
put off potential tenants and said it would agree to carry out temporary cosmetic 
repairs, and agreed in principle to a £200 reduction in rent being recoverable if this 
enabled Mr E to mitigate his losses and secure a new tenant.
Covea went on to say the tenancy hed written did mention the subsidence but did 
not specifically mention the rent reduction being as a result of the claim. It said Mr E 
had told it this was discussed verbally only. But Covea said the lack of text or email 
evidence supporting this led it to conclude there was no evidence to support the loss 
of rent was agreed solely as a result of claim damage. It also said it wouldve been 
unable to provide advice on how to set up any such tenancy agreement.
Our Investigator looked into the complaint. he explained the matters concerning 
FRL1 were brought out of time, but he could consider FRL2. He said Covea had 
acknowledged subsidence was mentioned in the tenancy agreement, and it was 
unfair in the circumstances to expect Mr E to have known what to specifically include 
without any guidance from Covea. He also said Covea had alluded to the reduced 
rent being accepted due to market forces but there was no evidence to support this.
So, the Investigator concluded Covea should pay the £200 reduction in rent for the 
period the tenants were in the property  plus 8% simple interest to account for the 
period he was without these funds.
Covea disagreed saying Mr Es tenant had complained in May 2021 that the crack 
damage had made the room cold and was trying to move out as a result. It said this 
commentary did not support that Mr Es tenant was benefitting from a rent reduction. 
It also said writing the tenancy agreement was not complicated and sensible for him 
to avoid future complaints. And it said the reduction would have only been in place 
until August 2021 when it completed temporary repairs.
The Investigator looked again and didnt change his mind. He said its FRL2 agreed to 
both repairs and a rent reduction so he said he still felt rent should be covered for the 
period the tenants were in place. He also said Covea had seen the tenancy shortly 
before it became live but didnt advise Mr E of its concerns until several months after 
which prevented him for rewording the contract.
Mr E has accepted the Investigators view including the FRL1 matter concerning 
jurisdiction, so I wont address this further within this decision. Covea didnt, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Covea has said Mr Es property was habitable and therefore it would not cover a 
claim for loss of rent under the policy. But it did say cracking to the property and 
disruption from repairs may put off prospective tenants, seemingly taking into 
account the history of tenants.
It also agreed in principle to cover a reduction in rent of £200. Seemingly Mr E 
followed this advice as its not disputed that he lowered the rent by this sum.
Covea says Mr Es contract was simply not clear enough that the rent was lowered 
due to the ongoing works. And while it acknowledges the ongoing subsidence is 
mentioned, it says this isnt specific enough. 
Covea has said it could not advise Mr E on drafting his tenancy agreement, but this 
wouldve been straightforward. While I of course wouldnt expect Covea to draft the 
contract for Mr E, it seems to me that it shouldve made clear any stipulations it 
expected to him. Or perhaps offered to review the tenancy before it went live, or 
simply read it and responded more quickly than it did, potentially giving Mr E the 
opportunity to amend the tenancy agreement before it began or shortly after as our 
Investigator has suggested. 
And based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded Covea has shown it did make this 
requirement clear to Mr E. Or at the very least, Im not satisfied it has been able to 
demonstrate it made this clear to this Service.
Covea has also said Mr Es statement that hed verbally agreed with the tenant that 
the reduced rent was related to the subsidence works wasnt sufficient. And Covea 
has suggested the agreed lower rent sum could be related to wider market 
conditions. But its not been able to point to anything within the tenancy that 
persuades me this was the case. So, while I accept this is a possibility, it seems most 
likely to me that Mr E had discussed this with the tenant  particularly given the 
reference to subsidence within the agreement. 
Covea has also said Mr E had made reference to the tenant complaining about the 
cracking in May 2021. I take on board these comments, but Im not persuaded that 
its fair to say the contract being more specific about the reason for the reduced rent 
wouldve necessarily prevented a tenant complaining in the circumstances. 
Covea also pointed to a new tenant in place from January 2021 onwards at a lower rent with the same description used for the tenant in question. I take these comments 
on board, but this doesnt outweigh the reasoning Ive given above and hasnt 
changed my mind.
Covea has said if it is directed to cover the reduced rent, it should only cover up until 
August 2021 as it completed temporary repairs around this time. However, again Im 
not persuaded this stipulation is explained in the documentation it sent to us, and this 
is not reflected within its FRL2. So again, its possible this agreement was made with 
Mr E, but Im not satisfied it has demonstrated this to our Service. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold this complaint. Covea Insurance plc must pay Mr E:
£200 for each month his previous tenant was in place and paying rent in line with the 
tenancy agreement in place from January 2021 onwards until it ended. 
8% simple interest* on each of these payments from the date specified in the tenancy 
agreement until the date of settlement. 
* If Covea considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr E how much its taken off. It should also give Mr E a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman