DRN-3163558
The complaint
Mr H has complained Nationwide Building Society wont refund transactions he didnt 
authorise and went on to close his account.  
What happened
In 2019 Mr H complained to Nationwide about a £100 cash machine withdrawal. He then 
went on to dispute numerous transactions made with two different debit cards. Some of 
these had been made at a shop (who Ill call A) Mr H regularly frequented. These 
transactions amounted to £1,712. 
Other disputed transactions were made online and covered an extensive period up to May 
2019.
Nationwide believed it was most likely Mr H had made these transactions himself. There was 
no evidence that another party knew his PIN or could have secured use of his card within A. 
There were also days when there was evidence to show Mr H was using his card for other 
non-disputed transactions. They also noted his new debit card had been used for the first 
time at one of the disputed online merchants and felt this didnt reflect normal fraudulent use. 
They gave Mr H notice of their intention to close his accounts. This happened in November 
2019.
Mr H believed Nationwide hadnt looked into the possibility of A using his card and PIN at 
times he was on their premises and then replacing it. He also continued to dispute the other 
transactions. As Nationwide had closed his account, Mr H complained about the 
inconvenience of having to source another bank account. Hed held a basic bank account 
with Nationwide and was also responsible for managing his mothers finances. He brought 
his complaint to our service.
Our investigator felt overall thar Nationwides evidence was convincing. There was no 
explanation for how Mr Hs card could be used fraudulently within A. He also noted that the 
online disputed transactions happened over a prolonged period of time which didnt reflect 
what we normally see when someone has access to someones card details.
He did, however, think Nationwide hadnt acted properly in closing Mr Hs basic bank 
account regardless of their reasoning. He asked Nationwide to pay Mr H an additional £150. 
Nationwide had already offered Mr H £50 for the attitude of a staff member on a call.
Nationwide accepted this outcome. Mr H didnt. He didnt believe wed considered all the 
ways A could have defrauded him. Mr H has asked an ombudsman to make a decision on 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. However Ive come to 
this conclusion only after conducting further investigation into Mr Hs claims which I refer to 
below.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Hs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but nothing that specifically 
seems relevant in Mr Ps case.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by Nationwide and 
Mr H. As confirmed above Ive also ensured weve discussed what Mr H could have been 
doing when he went into A and what he was spending all that money on.
Ive also noted the detail in our investigators view of 14 October 2021 but feel no need to 
rerun some of the arguments made there. Im also not going to run down the disputed 
transactions. Mr H provided us with a nine-page list of these when he brought his complaint 
to our service and there doesnt seem to be any dispute about these.
Firstly Im going to cover the issues around account closure. Mr H held a basic bank account 
with Nationwide. This means that regardless of Nationwides intention to close his account, 
they needed to do this according to specific criteria under the relevant regulations. I cant 
see that Nationwide has told us about a reason which meets that criteria.
In fact Mr H was pretty quick off the mark and opened an account with another bank. I can 
see from his credit record that this was opened in August 2019 which was before Nationwide 
closed his account(s). However its clear from what hes said that he was concerned about 
whether this would be possible. I agree with our investigator that Nationwide needs to pay 
compensation for this.
Ive looked separately at both the disputed online transactions and those undertaken within 
A.
The online transactions have all been conducted at sites which use specific payment 
processing facilities to disguise what type of sites these are. Ive considered that its possible 
that these can also be the sites used by fraudsters to drive traffic. I dont dispute this. But I 
dont think this is the case here. I say this as there are a number of different sites referred to 
here, and the use of at least one of these means someone  and I believe Mr H  
deliberately provided his card details. For this one site Mr H had a new debit card. No third 
party would have known his card details as this was the first use made of this card. I cant 
see where any compromise of Mr Hs card details would have occurred.
I also see these disputed transactions happened over a prolonged period of about a year 
from May 2018 to May 2019. This would qualify as unusual when looking at patterns of 
fraudulent card use. A serious amount of money was spent over this period  more than 
£3,000  on these sites. Id therefore expect Mr H to have noticed the loss of this  money 
much earlier. Rather than do what I believe occurred here which was regret spending hed 
carried out himself.Im always slightly wary of claiming theres a specific type of fraudulent behaviour when this 
can vary widely. But it is certainly more common for an unknown fraudster to use as much 
money as quickly as possible particularly if someone is likely to miss their card or use their 
card details regularly or monitor their account. This didnt happen here.
When I first considered the spending Mr H disputed in A, I couldnt understand what had 
happened here. There were large disputed payments occasionally made on the same day as 
other smaller-value transactions which Mr H didnt dispute.
This made making contact with A to understand the circumstances of Mr H frequenting their 
shop necessary. A was able to supply a number of point-of-sale receipts for the smaller-
value transactions. They were also able to explain Mr H had bought a top of the range guitar 
amplifier and speakers paying in instalments over an extended period. They confirmed this 
wasnt an unusual service they offered when someone was buying an expensive item like 
this amplifier. I can see Mr H completed payments on 24 November 2018 which coincides 
with the last £100 payment Mr H disputed.
I believe the £1,712 Mr H disputed as payments with A were all authorised. I can see all the 
evidence points to Mr H having paid for an amplifier in instalments.
Putting things right
I can see Mr H was caused inconvenience by Nationwide closing his accounts without taking 
appropriate notice of the relevant regulations. He trawled through a number of suppliers 
before finding a bank to provide him with a bank account.  However at no stage was Mr H 
without a bank account. Overall I think its right Nationwide provides Mr H with 
compensation. I agree £150 seems a fair and reasonable amount.
I can see Nationwide has already agreed to provide this money to Mr H over and above the 
£50 theyd already agreed to pay him. Mr H has asked why hed not received this money 
already but he needs to accept this decision before Nationwide will pay him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Mr H £150 for the inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman