DRN-3027566
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the way Sainsburys Bank Plc reported information about her credit 
card repayments to credit reference agencies, and that it unfairly removed the accounts 
promotional interest rate.
What happened
In November 2020 Mrs M contacted Sainsburys Bank, as her poor health, and the impact of 
the coronavirus pandemic, meant she was struggling to make the minimum payments on her 
credit card.
Sainsburys Banks agent went through an income and expenditure assessment with Mrs M, 
which showed her monthly income was less than her usual outgoings by approximately 
£150. The agent offered to freeze the account for a month to allow Mrs M to get help from a 
debt support charity, but Mrs M declined this. It was agreed that she could afford to make 
payments of £50 a month for the following two months, which would then be reviewed. £50 
was less than the minimum payment required on the account. And the promotional 0% 
interest rate which had been applied to her account, was removed as she wasnt making the 
required minimum payments.
Mrs M made the £50 payments as required up to and including March 2021, but when she 
checked her credit score, she saw that the payments were recorded as missed payments 
and this had had a negative impact on her credit score.
She complained to Sainsburys Bank that the payments shouldnt have been recorded like 
that as there was an agreement in place. In its final response, Sainsburys Bank said her 
credit file had been correctly updated as she had made less than the minimum payments 
required, and so the account was in arrears. But it had recorded that the arrears were part of 
a formal arrangement on her credit file. It upheld her complaint due to the length of time it 
took to resolve the issue, and paid her £30 for the inconvenience she had been caused.
Mrs M didnt agree with this so referred the complaint to our service. She said Sainsburys 
Bank had shown credit file markers on the payments between November 2020 and March 
2021 as arrangement to pay but this was also shown on April and Mays payments, which 
had been made in full. She wanted Sainsburys Bank to remove the delinquent marker from 
her credit file and restore the interest free period until August 2021.
Our investigator agreed with Mrs M and upheld her complaint. He thought the credit file 
markers had originally shown missed payments. Although he acknowledged that it was 
agreed by Mrs M that they were now shown as arrangement to pay as Sainsburys Bank 
had said. He also said these markers were shown on April and May 2021s payments, which 
was incorrect as at least the minimum payments had been made as required.
He didnt think Sainsburys Bank had treated Mrs M fairly, as he thought it shouldve been 
clearer about the possible impact entering into such an arrangement to pay could have on 
her credit file. 
As a result he thought it was fair for Sainsburys Bank to: 
remove the delinquent marker from her credit file; 
remove the arrangement to pay markers applied to her payments in April and May 
2021; 
reinstate, under the original terms, the interest free period on her card;
pay her £150 to recognise the additional stress and inconvenience she had been 
caused whilst trying to resolve this matter.
Sainsburys Bank didnt agree with the increase in compensation. It said:
Its evidence showed that the markers added to the months November 2020 to March 
2021 were arrangement to pay. This showed arrears, but showed there was an 
arrangement in place, and this had been explained to Mrs M when the arrangement 
was agreed;
The complaint about the markers shown on the April and May 2021 payments had 
been dealt with under a separate complaint  the markers had been removed and 
Mrs M had accepted £25 compensation for this;
It wouldnt reinstate the promotional 0% interest rate, as it had been removed in line 
with the terms and conditions of the credit card account as Mrs M had been unable to 
maintain the minimum payment on the account. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me for a decision.
On 16 August 2021 I issued a provisional decision, as I didnt agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator. This provisional decision said:
Mrs M called Sainsburys Bank on 18 November 2020, and as a result of this call an 
arrangement was put in place for Mrs M to make reduced monthly payments until 
February 2021. And a consequence of this arrangement was the adverse markers of arrears 
on Mrs Ms credit file. Now, Mrs M thinks these markers were added unfairly, as an 
agreement to make reduced payments was in place. So, I need to decide whether I think 
Sainsburys Bank did enough to help her and treated her fairly. And, based on the 
information Ive seen  which includes contact notes between Mrs M and Sainsburys Bank, 
as well as the call between Mrs M and Sainsburys Bank - Im satisfied it did.
Ive listened closely to a recording of this call. In this call I heard Mrs M explain that she had 
been unable to work due to illness and Covid-19, and the pandemic had also reduced the 
work that her husband could do. This meant that she was unable to make the minimum 
payments on her Sainsburys credit card, and as it had the largest balance of all her cards, 
she wanted to see if she could come to a short-term arrangement. But she said repeatedly 
during the call, that she was worried about the impact being in arrears could have on her 
credit score.
And from listening to this, Im satisfied Sainsburys Bank did take the time to understand 
Mrs Ms circumstances. Its agent completed an income/expenditure (I/E) assessment with 
her, which showed her monthly outgoings for essential items and bills were about £150 more 
than her income. So, Im satisfied that she was in financial difficulties and couldnt afford to 
make the minimum monthly payment on her Sainsburys Bank credit card, which was at that 
point £189.21. But there were already arrears on the account which needed to be cleared, 
so the total minimum amount owing in November 2020 was £378.42.And once the agent identified Mrs Ms outgoings were in excess of her income, they 
explained it could freeze the account for a month while Mrs M got financial advice and 
support. And they signposted her to a debt support charity, and this advice is what Id expect 
to be given  it was looking to support Mrs M getting back on her feet. But Mrs M said she 
had already discussed the options with her husband, and he would be able to help to make a 
payment of £50 per month as she knew it was important to make at least some payment. 
But Mrs M again said she was worried this would have a negative effect on her credit score. 
And although the agent didnt say that there definitely would be a negative effect, Im 
satisfied that they did make it clear enough that the account would show in arrears as the 
minimum payments wouldnt be met. And from Mrs Ms responses Im also satisfied that she 
knew being in arrears would probably negatively effect her credit score. But even if she 
didnt fully understand this, given her financial circumstances at that point I dont think she 
couldve done anything else. I say this because as she had discounted the option of freezing 
the account, I dont think she had any other option than to reduce the monthly payment to 
below the minimum required. Ill explain why.
Having listened to the I/E assessment its clear that, certainly for the following two months at 
least, Mrs Ms outgoings wouldve exceeded her income. And she wouldnt have been able 
to make the minimum payments required. And her husband was already helping with 
significant levels of other outgoings, but was able to help her by paying an extra £50 so there 
could be at least some payment made. But this was the most he could pay. And having 
considered the level of debt she had with other businesses and listened to the call, Im 
satisfied it is unlikely that she wouldve been able to find the money elsewhere to make the 
required minimum payments.  
So, as Im satisfied Sainsburys Bank was fair in its treatment of Mrs M when it identified she 
was in financial difficulties, I need to decide whether it was fair in reporting the 
circumstances to the credit reference agencies (CRAs).
Sainsburys Bank is required by the Information Commissioners office, to ensure the 
information it reports to CRAs is an accurate representation of the circumstances of the 
account. And even though the payments made to Mrs Ms account were part of an 
agreement, they were below the minimum required, and so the account was in arrears. And 
as Ive said above, Im satisfied that Mrs M knew this and didnt have another option. 
I could require Sainsburys Bank to amend what its recorded on Mrs Ms credit file if it was 
incorrect or I thought it was unfair. But the entries up to and including March 2021 show 
arrangement to pay, which accurately reflected the circumstances, so I dont require them 
to be amended. 
As the record of the payments in April and May 2021 were the subject of a separate 
complaint which has been resolved, I wouldnt normally comment on those, but for 
completeness I will. Sainsburys Bank has agreed the payments Mrs M made in April and 
May 2021 were incorrectly recorded, and has amended this and paid Mrs M £25 
compensation. And I think this is reasonable as I cant see that Mrs M has been adversely 
financially affected by this mistake.
The investigator also thought that Sainsburys Bank should reinstate the accounts 
promotional 0% interest rate. But Im afraid I dont agree. Promotional rates such as this are 
introduced for customers whove kept their accounts in good order, and on the 
understanding that they continue to do so. And while I completely accept Mrs M had done 
this in the past, Ive checked the terms and conditions of the account, and I can see on the 
first page, in a way I consider to be prominent and clear, that the introductory 0% rate (as 
opposed to the standard rate 29.95%) was conditional on the following terms:We may apply the standard interest rate during any special promotion period to any 
transaction if in any month you do not make at least your minimum payment by the minimum 
payment date, or if you exceed your credit limit at any time
And this is a standard term relating to promotional interest rates on credit cards, and not 
unusual. And as Ive said above, Im satisfied that Mrs M knew that the payment 
arrangement she asked for meant she wasnt making the required minimum payment, and 
that her account was in arrears. So Im satisfied that Sainsburys Bank werent unfair in 
removing this promotional rate.
But Ive also seen that Sainsburys didnt charge Mrs M any interest on her account while the 
arrangement was in place anyway, apart from on one occasion in March 2021, where 
interest was mistakenly added. But this was refunded within a few days. Not applying 
interest and charges while an agreement is in place is something that I consider reasonable 
and fair, as it reduced the pressure on Mrs M and stopped the account from going further 
into arrears.
 
I know that my provisional decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs M, as I understand 
and appreciate that she wants her credit score to be as high as possible. But Im satisfied 
that Sainsburys Bank have treated her fairly for the reasons set out above. So Im not 
minded to require them to do anything else.
Mrs M replied to my provisional decision saying that the only issue she now had with the 
complaint was that Sainsburys hadnt removed the delinquent marker from her credit file, 
which she said was added unfairly as she had made some payments to her account every 
month. In response to this Sainsburys said the delinquent marker only related to payments 
she had made in April and May 2021, which were subject to a different complaint. And it was 
in the process of resolving this complaint, so couldnt be considered in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered all the evidence, including the subsequent submissions from Mrs M 
and Sainsburys, I see no reason to divert from my original decision. Sainsburys have 
shown that the delinquent marker relates to a complaint about payments she made in April 
and May 2021, which were the subject of a different complaint which hasnt yet been fully 
resolved. Should this not be resolved to Mrs Ms satisfaction, she will need to refer this to our 
service as a new complaint for it to be considered.
My final decision
As a result of all the above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman