DRN-3114984
The complaint
Mr B complains because Ageas Insurance Limited hasnt paid a claim under his travel 
insurance policy. 
All references to Ageas include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr B and Miss C were insured under an annual travel insurance policy, provided by Ageas.
The policy was purchased in February 2020.
Mr B was due to travel to a country which Ill call S in April 2020. Hed booked flights and
accommodation/activities separately.
On 14 March 2020, S declared a state of emergency and introduced significant restrictions
on movement throughout the country in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. On 15 March
2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel to S. On 19
March 2020, Mr B emailed his accommodation/activity provider asking for a postponement
or refund of his booking because of the restrictions on travel.
On 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all British tourists who were abroad to return to the
UK and the UK government announced wide-ranging restrictions on movement, commonly
referred to as lockdown. The government announcement included an instruction to stay at
home other than for a limited list of essential reasons.
Mr Bs accommodation/activity provider contacted him on 17 April 2020 to say his trip would
be cancelled as the business had been forced to close from 14 March 2020 and didnt
expect to be able to reopen. Mr B was told the accommodation/activity provider was
insolvent so his money couldnt be refunded, or his trip dates changed.
Mr B made a claim under his policy with Ageas for his accommodation and activity costs.
Ageas said Mr Bs policy only covered the cancellation of a trip for certain listed reasons,
and government advice against travel wasnt one of these. Ageas also said Mr Bs policy 
contained an exclusion for claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of
any country.
Unhappy, Mr B brought his complaint to the attention of our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He said, although Mr Bs policy
didnt provide cover for cancelling a holiday due to the FCDO advising against travel, the
policy also wouldnt have provided any cover if Mr B had gone ahead and travelled against
FCDO advice. Our investigator said he didnt think it was fair or reasonable for Mr B to be left
in such a position, so he asked Ageas to pay the claim.
Ageas didnt agree with our investigators opinion. It said its policy wording was clear in
outlining the cover available, and that it wasnt seeking to rely on the policy exclusion relating
to travelling against FCDO advice to decline Mr Bs claim.
Mr Bs complaint was passed to me. I made my provisional decision about the complaint 
earlier this month. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when reaching my provisional decision.
I understand the cancellation of Mr Bs trip was outside of his control and arose from an
unexpected and unprecedented situation. But no insurance policy covers every eventuality
and an insurer is entitled to decide what level of risk it is prepared to accept in return for the
payment of a policy premium. Therefore, Ageas obligations to Mr B under its contract with
him are limited by the terms, conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mr Bs policy, at page 6 under the heading Cancellation and Curtailment, says Ageas will
pay for a policyholders unused costs if their trip is cancelled for one of the following
specified, listed reasons:
1. the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close
relative or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or
2. you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend
court); or
3. your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any impending
redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; or
4. your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding
or fire;
5. the policy requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at
your home; or
6. you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed
Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee
being ordered to return to duty.
Based on the evidence Ive seen (namely, the emails between Mr B and his
accommodation/activity provider), Im satisfied that the reason Mr Bs trip was cancelled was
because of restrictions imposed by the governments of both the UK and S.
I understand this policy does cover quarantine, which isnt defined, and if Mr B had 
travelled, hed had to have self-isolated for the duration of his trip thereby making it 
impractical for him to have gone. But I cant fairly say this was the reason for the cancellation 
of Mr Bs holiday  hed never have been able to avail of the accommodation/activities hed 
booked because the provider was closed.
So, I dont think Mr Bs trip was cancelled for any of the above listed reasons and, therefore,
I dont think his claim is covered under the Cancellation and Curtailment section of his
policy. Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr Bs insurance policy, but I dont think
he held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances he found himself in.
Our investigator correctly pointed out that Mr Bs policy says no cover is provided in theevent hed gone ahead and travelled against FCDO advice. He thought this left Mr B in an
unfair position. There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had
clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to
claims for changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might
think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of a strict
interpretation of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair or
reasonable for me to ask Ageas to do so here.
This is because the Cancellation and Curtailment section of Mr Bs policy also says:
What you are NOT covered for
9. claims arising from the prohibitive regulations by the government of any country.
I think the government restrictions in the UK and in S due to the spread of Covid-19 led to
the cancellation of Mr Bs trip. So, not only is the reason for the cancellation of the holiday
not covered as a listed, insured event under Mr Bs policy, I think the exclusion quoted above
applies to the circumstances of this claim anyway.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but I dont think his claim is covered under the terms and
conditions of his policy and I dont think Ageas acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining
his claim. So, overall, I dont currently intend to recommend that Ageas should do anything
more.
Ageas responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. Mr B 
responded to my provisional decision and said he was disappointed with the outcome, but 
also had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information or additional submissions, I see no 
reason to change my provisional findings. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman