DRN-4259310
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs C have complained about the settlement offered by AA Underwriting 
Insurance Company Limited (AA) following a claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R and Mrs C contacted AA to make a claim for storm damage. Mr R and Mrs C said they 
had a quote for the work to repair their roof. AA said it would arrange for a surveyor to 
assess the damage. Mr R and Mrs C had the roof repaired. AA said it would settle the claim 
for the storm damage but at the amount it would have cost AA to do the work, not the 
amount Mr R and Mrs C had paid.
Mr R and Mrs C complained, as they said AA should settle the claim for the amount they had 
paid for the work. When AA replied it said Mr R and Mrs C hadnt complied with the terms 
and conditions of the policy by arranging the work themselves and that what it had offered 
was fair in the circumstances.
When Mr R and Mrs C complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. She 
said the work to the roof was urgent and that it was therefore reasonable that Mr R and Mrs 
C had carried out the repairs. She said AA should cover the full cost of repairs.
As AA didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 21 June 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold this complaint. I said:
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that there was a valid claim for storm damage. The issue 
was whether it was reasonable for Mr R and Mrs C to arrange the work themselves and 
whether AA should settle the claim at the cost to itself or to Mr R and Mrs C.
So, Ive thought about Mr R and Mrs C arranging the work themselves. When AA responded 
to the complaint, it said it hadnt had the opportunity to follow its standard procedure to 
validate the claim. Ive listened to the phone call where Mr R and Mrs C first told AA about 
the damage. During that phone call, they said they had been trying to contact AA for several 
days. Mr R told AA he had obtained a quote and had only been able to find one company 
that could provide a quote. He said the scaffolding had been put up but the work itself hadnt 
started. He also said tiles had come off the front and the back of the roof and had caused 
further damage, including to their car. 
AA told Mr R and Mrs C it would arrange for a surveyor to call to assess the damage and 
discuss the quote. When Mrs C asked for a timescale for this, AA was unable to provide one. 
At no point during the call did I hear AA say Mr R and Mrs C shouldnt proceed with the 
work, any discussion of carrying out a temporary repair rather than a permanent one or 
about any risks around them getting the work done, such as issues with it being able to 
validate the claim or the basis on which it would normally pay any costs. 
I think it was clear from the phone call that an urgent repair to the roof needed to take place. 
I also think it was more likely than not that Mr R and Mrs C were left with the impression 
there wasnt any reason for them not to proceed with the work. So, I currently think it was 
reasonable Mr R and Mrs C had the work carried out themselves.
So, Ive also thought about what AA should pay as a cash settlement. AA has said the cash 
settlement should be at the cost to itself. Mr R and Mrs C want it paid at the amount the work 
cost them. Given Ive already said I dont think AA explained any of the issues around Mr R 
and Mrs C proceeding with the work, including how it was likely to consider any costs, I 
currently think AA needs to pay the cash settlement at the cost to Mr R and Mrs C. Without 
AA raising this, I dont think Mr R and Mrs C were able to make an informed decision about 
the risks around the costs if they went ahead with the work.
Ive also considered how much of the work AA should pay for. Ive looked at what was 
discussed about the roofing work. AA told Mr R and Mrs C there had been some betterment 
to the roof. Mr R seemed to agree with this due to a new dry vented system being installed. 
AA didnt need to pay for betterment as part of the claim. So, I dont think it needed to pay 
the full amount Mr R and Mrs C paid for the roof.
The roofing work was made up of two elements. The scaffolding and the roof work itself. Im 
aware AA didnt think such extensive scaffolding was needed. Ive considered the damage to 
the roof and the location and I havent currently seen anything that persuades me the extent 
of the scaffolding was unreasonable. It cost £1,600 plus VAT. So, I think AA should pay that 
amount. 
Ive also looked at the cost of the roofing work. Im aware Mr R said he thought the 
betterment work cost about £500. I havent seen anything that shows me this was an 
unreasonable figure. So, deducting this from the total for the work means the cost of the roof 
work to Mr R and Mrs C was £1,300 plus VAT. So, I currently think AA should pay a total of 
£2,900 plus VAT.
Im aware that while the complaint was with this service, AA made a further payment to Mr R 
and Mrs C. It is my understanding that AA hadnt necessarily intended to make this further 
payment at that time and that there was an internal misunderstanding about whether the 
complaint was still ongoing. I havent seen any indication that AA plans to recover the 
money. In the circumstances, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to require AA to pay 
anything further to Mr R and Mrs C, including any additional compensation, as the amount 
AA has now paid already covers the full amount I intend to require it to pay for the work, plus 
an additional amount. However, if in response to my provisional decision, AA plans to 
recover any money from Mr R and Mrs C, I intend to revisit the issue of compensation. Its 
not my intention to influence AA one way or the other about the additional payment it made. 
Im trying to be fair to both parties based on my current understanding of the point the claim 
settlement has reached and the amounts now paid to Mr R and Mrs C. Should those 
circumstances change, I would want to consider whether the resolution of this complaint 
remains fair, including whether AA should pay an additional amount as compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 19 July 2023.
AA didnt reply.
Mr R and Mrs C replied and confirmed they had received the full amount they had asked AA 
to pay. They also provided some calculations for the claim settlement. They said it would be 
wrong for AA to now ask for any money back.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional decision. 
I have considered the comments from Mr R and Mrs C, including confirmation of the amount 
received. I am aware AA didnt reply to my provisional decision. I have also again considered 
the total amount paid by AA in relation to this claim.
I remain of the view that AA should settle the claim at the cost to Mr R and Mrs C. I am of the 
view that Mr R and Mrs C were also caused inconvenience by the way their claim was 
handled for which they should receive some compensation. Taking into account the full 
circumstances of this complaint, including the total payments AA has already made to Mr R 
and Mrs C, I think what AA has paid is appropriate to cover the cost of the claim and some 
compensation.
Putting things right
AA needs to settle the claim at the cost to Mr R and Mrs C. Taking into account the amount 
AA has already paid, I think this is appropriate to cover the cost of the claim and some 
compensation for the way the claim was handled.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. Taking into account the amounts AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited has already paid in relation to this claim, I think this appropriately covers the cost of 
the claim along with some compensation and that it doesnt need to pay anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman