DRN-4063039
The complaint
Ms A complains about how AXA PPP Healthcare Limited dealt with a claim against her 
membership of a group private medical insurance scheme and her private medical insurance 
policy.    
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Ms A had membership of a group, private medical insurance 
policy via her employer. Ms A had a problem with her foot and on 24 January 2022, she 
contacted AXA about a claim. AXA gave Ms A the names of three orthopaedic 
consultants from which to choose. 
Ms A saw a consultant, who Ill refer to as Mr A. Mr A diagnosed Mortons neuroma. On 
31 January 2022, Ms A told AXA that she wanted a second opinion, which AXA 
authorised. Ms A saw a second consultant, who Ill refer to as Mr S. Mr S diagnosed a 
stress fracture. Ms A was unsure which opinion to follow, and AXA authorised another 
scan. 
On 8 February 2022, Ms A left her employment and her membership of the group private 
medical insurance scheme ended. She took out a private medical insurance policy with 
AXA on a continuing medical exclusions basis. That policy started on 9 February 2022.   
On 17 February 2022, Ms A told AXA that she wasnt sure about Mr S diagnosis. AXA 
gave Ms A details of two more consultants.  
Ms A complained to AXA about Mr A and Mr S and the conflicting medical opinions shed 
received. She also complained that the additional consultants AXA had provided details 
of were some distance from her home. Ms A wanted AXA to provide details of 
physiotherapists specialising in Mortons neuroma. 
Within the cooling off period, Ms A cancelled her private medical insurance policy. 
AXA apologised for delays in responding to phone calls and e-mails. It said that when it 
gave Ms A details of Mr A, he was recognised by them. AXA said that concerns about  
Mr A and Mr S should be raised directly with them, and it couldnt become involved in 
diagnoses and suggested treatment. 
AXA said that it couldnt provide details of physiotherapists specialising in certain 
conditions. It apologised if the consultants it mentioned were too far from Ms As home. 
AXA said that if it cant find facilities within a reasonable distance it takes a pragmatic 
approach and may authorise a facility that may not otherwise be covered under the 
policy. It sent Ms A compensation of £100 in relation to service issues.
In December 2020, Ms A complained to AXA that shed received promotional material 
after shed said that she didnt want to hear from it further. AXA removed Ms As contact 
details from its marketing database. 
 
Ms A wasnt happy with AXAs response to her complaint and pursued the matter. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She thought that AXA hadnt 
provided a good standard of service in its communication with Ms A and had provided 
details of specialists beyond a reasonable distance from Ms As home. But the 
investigator though that AXAs offer of compensation of £100 was fair. 
The investigator said that call wait times and the time AXA took to respond to Ms As     
e-mails didnt have a significant impact on the claim. She said that when AXA provided 
Mr As details to Ms A, he was one of their recognised consultants. The investigator said 
that it wasnt for AXA to regulate the quality of a specialists care and that it doesnt offer 
a service in which it provides details of specialisation in certain conditions. She thought 
that AXAs action in removing Ms As details so that she no longer received promotional 
material was sufficient. 
Ms A didnt agree with the investigator and said, in summary:
AXA offers triage and should include advice on managing symptoms and pain, 
which didnt occur. 
AXA promised referrals to suit a customers needs and promised to stay in touch 
to see how things were going. She wanted a physiotherapist that treated 
neuromas, but AXA said it couldnt provide one, and it didnt stay in touch. 
AXA failed to tell her that it would no longer recognise Mr A.  
She travelled abroad for treatment. 
Ms A asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
In this complaint, Im dealing with Ms As concerns to which AXA responded in its two 
final responses of 14 April 2022 and in its letter of 15 December 2022. The investigator 
has explained that we cant deal with other concerns Ms A has raised with AXA, as were 
bound by certain rules about time limits. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Ms A has very strong feelings about this matter. She has provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which I have read and considered. I trust that Ms A 
wont take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
that is whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably in its handling of her claim and whether it 
has done enough to put matters right. 
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. I dont uphold Ms As complaint and Ill explain why. 
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and conditions. Subject to the membership terms, AXA pays the cost of Ms As eligible 
treatment. 
Its common ground that there were some difficulties and delays in AXA responding 
to Ms As phone calls and e-mails. AXA has explained why those difficulties and 
delays occurred and apologised for that. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that 
Ms As claim was delayed unduly. 
Its clear from Ms As comments in response to the investigators view that she 
expected more from AXA. Ive looked at the membership handbook for both the 
group scheme and the private medical insurance policy. AXA isnt obliged to give 
Ms A advice on managing treatment or pain unless the assessment by the 
physiotherapist under the Working Body provisions recommends                       
self-management, which wasnt the case here. And AXA isnt obliged to keep in 
touch once a member is under the care of a specialist. 
I do appreciate that this was a worrying time for Ms A. She was no doubt confused 
and concerned about conflicting diagnoses. But AXA isnt responsible for the 
quality of care delivered by the various specialists. Those specialists have their 
own regulators. It isnt for AXA to comment on Ms As diagnosis or to assist her in 
weighing conflicting diagnoses. 
When AXA gave Ms A the details of consultants which included Mr A, it recognised 
him as a specialist. That changed shortly after. I understand Ms As concern on 
learning that AXA no longer recognised Mr A, but I dont think that AXA was at fault 
in giving Ms A details of a consultant who it recognised as a specialist at that time.  
I dont think AXA was obliged to tell Ms A in advance about changes it hadnt yet 
made. 
AXA has apologised if the locations of some of the specialists werent suitable. Ive 
looked at the locations and I dont think that they are necessarily an unreasonable 
distance from Ms As home. But I appreciate that with an injury of this nature,      
Ms As mobility may have been impaired, and it would have been better for her to 
see a specialist nearer to her home. 
Ms A wanted AXA to provide details of specialists in Mortons neuroma. AXA says 
that it doesnt provide details of specialization in certain conditions. I think thats 
reasonable.  
I understand that it was annoying for Ms A to continue to receive marketing 
material from AXA. In response to her complaint, AXA removed Ms As details from 
its marketing database. I think that was sufficient. 
Considering everything, I think that AXAs apologies and payment of compensation 
of £100 are fair and reasonable in this case. In reaching that view, Ive taken into 
account the nature, extent and duration of the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the elements of AXAs service which were poor in this case. So, I dont direct it 
to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman