DRN-4098581
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC ordered him to leave a branch upon threat of 
calling the police and that it cancelled his current account without his permission.
What happened
Mr Fs debit card had been blocked by Lloyds fraud team and he was asked to attend a 
branch for verification purposes. He attended the branch on 20 January 2022 and was of the 
impression that hed be able to get a new card there and then. It was explained to him that 
was not the case and that a new card would need to be ordered. He wasnt happy about that 
and so the manager spent some time on the phone with the fraud team to see if they would 
agree to unblock his card. Ultimately the fraud team said that it would not, due to suspicious 
transactions that had been made on the account but that it would arrange for a new card to 
be sent out to Mr F. The fraud team also declined to allow an online payment Mr F wanted to 
make to a share dealing site that it considered to be high risk.
Mr F says he was asked to leave the branch due to shouting. However, he was shouting 
because he has damaged hearing and it was unfair of Lloyds to treat a disabled person that 
way. When he refused to leave, the manager said that the police would be called. In the end 
Mr F left before the police could arrive.
Our investigator didnt think Lloyd had done anything wrong. Mr F disagrees with the 
investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds says that Mr Fs behaviour was unacceptable. It says he was talking over the branch 
manager as she tried to speak to the fraud team over the phone. He then became 
argumentative with the cashier and tried to involve other customers.
I appreciate that Mr F has some hearing loss. But Lloyds says his voice got louder and 
louder as time went on.
As Lloyds felt that he was upsetting other customers, it asked Mr F to leave. Mr F has said 
himself that he refused to leave. Lloyds then said that it would call the police if he did not do 
so.
Ive thought very carefully about what both sides have said. On balance, Im not persuaded 
that Mr Fs hearing loss was the main reason for him raising his voice. Overall, I think it is 
more likely that he was annoyed about not being able to get his card unblocked and not 
being able to make the transaction to the share dealing site. Therefore, I consider it 
reasonable that he was asked to leave the branch and that he was told the police would be 
called when he refused to do so.
Our investigator has previously set out the terms and conditions which would enable Lloyds 
to close a customers account, so I wont repeat them here. 
The manager informed Mr F that Lloyds had the right to close his account as a result of his 
behaviour. Lloyds says Mr Fs response was that it could close the account immediately. He 
was therefore asked to sign a form which would enable that to happen. Ive seen the close 
an account form that Mr F signed. So, although Mr F says he didnt give his permission for 
the account to be closed, based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that he did agree to 
it.
Mr F later received a new debit card by post, but no pin number, and wondered why Lloyds 
had done that if it had closed his account. But the new card had been ordered by the fraud 
team prior to Mr F agreeing to close the account in branch. Its possible that Lloyds could 
have prevented the card from being sent out. But Mr F receiving a new card didnt really 
cause him any detriment, so Im unable to conclude that he should receive any 
compensation as a result of that.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman