DRN-4128578
The complaint
Miss A complains that Vanquis Bank Limited have unfairly applied a default to her credit card 
account.
What happened
Miss A had a credit card account with Vanquis. Miss A said she was struggling to make her 
repayments and had incurred late and over the limit payments. She asked Vanquis to help 
by providing some breathing space for her. Miss A said she was struggling with the cost of 
living especially gas and energy bills. She told Vanquis she needed breathing space for a 
couple of months, after which shed be able to meet her credit commitments. But Vanquis 
had continued to charge interest and fees making her situation worse. And had issued a 
default notice and stopped her being able to use her card. She complained to Vanquis.  
Vanquis said they waived several late and over the limit payments for Miss A. And had tried 
to help but she had stopped engaging with them. They said when she called to ask for 
breathing space their agent had advised her correctly about her account. And had referred 
her to a third party to assist her with her financial situation. But they said it could have been 
made clearer to Miss A that collection activity would still continue. They offered £25 as a 
gesture of goodwill for this.
Miss A wasnt happy with their response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Vanquis had acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Miss A.
Miss A didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vanquis have provided system information and call recordings. And Ive Miss As testimony. 
In reaching my decision for me to ask Vanquis to do something differently I must be satisfied 
that theyve done something wrong. I know this will disappoint Miss A but I dont think they 
have. Ill explain why.
From September 2022 I can see that Miss A was beginning to struggle to manage her credit 
card account with Vanquis. And she asked for a late payment fee to be refunded, which 
Vanquis agreed to. In November 2022 I can see that Miss A cancelled her direct debit with 
her bank.
In early January 2023 Vanquis contacted Miss A through their messaging service as shed 
missed payments. I can see that Vanquis and Miss A went through her income and 
expenditure as Miss A had said she was struggling financially. Miss A said she could pay 
£10 per month towards her balance. But the details Miss A gave about her income and 
expenditure showed she didnt have any income after paying her non-discretionary bills for a 
payment plan to be put into place, Vanquis calculated shed a £44 deficit. Miss A is told that 
a payment holiday isnt an option, and a payment plan cant be arranged as she had 
insufficient income. Miss A is advised to seek help from debt advice services. Miss A is also 
told that the collection calls would be stopped for 30 days while she sought help.
At the end of January 2023, Miss A called Vanquis again to ask for a payment break to be 
put into place. Ive listened to this call. Miss A explains that she cant make her payments 
and wants all fees stopped. She is advised that late payments can impact her credit history 
and shes asked what was causing her financial difficulty. Miss A is told in the first instance a 
referral would be made to a third party to see if they can put in place a solution The agent 
explains the need to understand her situation and her request for breathing space is so that 
the third party they refer her to can understand her situation and look to help. Miss A 
explains that she isnt working, her only income is benefits, and due to high energy costs she 
is struggling. 
Miss A said she hoped to be in a better position within a couple of months. Miss A is told that 
the third party can look to stop collection activity and suspend interest for 30 to 60 days. But 
if they couldnt find a solution she could come back and theyd look to set up a short-term 
arrangement for about three to six months, where interest and fees could be frozen. But as 
this would impact Miss As credit file, the referral to the third party was the first option for her. 
Miss A also asked for late payment and an over the limit fee to be waived. And this is done. 
Miss A towards the end of the call asks for clarification as to what would be happening. And 
she is told that shed get an email about the third-party referral, and that normal collection 
activity would continue until the solution was in place. Miss A reiterates her need for a     
two-month break, and she is advised again to first see what help the third party could 
provide. Miss A is also told that the referral would only be in place for 30 days. And if an 
arrangement couldnt be made, she would need to come back to Vanquis for them to look at 
whether a short term arrangement could be set up, again making clear the impact this would 
have on Miss As credit file.  
In late February 2023 Miss A contacted Vanquis again and asked for all interest and fees to 
be waived. Miss A is told that this isnt an option, and she is asked about the third-party 
referral. Miss A confirms she spoke to the third party and that a call had been arranged for 
the day before but shed other issues that prevented this. Miss A said it was for Vanquis to 
waive any interest and charges.
When a customer contacts a bank and says she is in financial difficulty theyre required to 
respond positively and sympathetically. But this doesnt mean theyre required to waive all 
charges and interest. Id expect Vanquis to explain the different options Miss A had and the 
likely consequences or financial implications of each option so that Miss A could make an 
informed decision about what was best for her. I can see that Vanquis tried to help Miss A, 
they refunded several over the limit and late payment charges and offered her practical help 
and advice.
I can see from Miss As statements, for February, March and April 2023 that she was over 
her credit limit of £250. And her arrears were increasing from £103.82, to £141.25 to 
£157.50 each month. I havent seen any payments made towards the account.  From 
Vanquis records I can see Miss A had also missed her payment in December 2022 and 
January 2023. In early March 2023, Vanquis sent Miss A, a Notice of Default. As this was 
over 30 days since the late January 2023 call detailed above. I havent seen any evidence 
that Miss A had arranged a solution for her financial situation following the third-party 
referral. And she didnt have sufficient funds for a payment arrangement to be set up.
The letter with the Notice of Default which Miss A received wasnt telling her that her account had definitely been defaulted. It was a notification as the steps that Vanquis would take if her 
account wasnt brought up to date. The wording explained that if you fail to comply... 
Vanquis may issue a default. And it also specifically said that this could be remedied if 
Miss A made a payment to clear her arrears. As Miss A didnt make any payment towards 
her arrears by the end of March 2023 Vanquis defaulted her account.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says when a consumer is at least three 
months behind with their payments then a default may be registered. And it would expect a 
default to be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments. 
We think it wouldnt be fair if the business didnt record the default by the time the consumer 
is between three and six months in arrears, as by this point itd be clear they arent able to 
make their contractual payments.
This was the case with Miss A. From early January 2023 I think Vanquis had been clear that 
a payment holiday wasnt an option, a payment arrangement couldnt be agreed as shed 
insufficient monies available to meet her essential commitments. And that Miss A needed to 
seek help from debt management services. But I cant see that Miss A sought this help in 
early January 2023 neither did she fully engage with the third-party Vanquis referred her to 
in late January 2023.
While I understand the difficult position Miss A was in I cant say that Vanquis acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in their actions with her. They refunded several over the limit and late 
payment fees. They carried out an income and expenditure assessment to see whether a 
payment arrangement could be put in place. When this wasnt an option because Miss A 
didnt have any disposable income, they put on hold any collection calls to Miss A whilst she 
sought help. And they signposted her to other bodies, experienced in helping consumers in 
her position find a resolution. So, I think Vanquis had acted with forbearance and 
consideration in trying to assist Miss A but Miss A hadnt acted upon the options provided to 
her.
As Im not upholding this complaint its for Miss A to decide whether she wants to accept 
Vanquis offer of £25.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2024.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman