DRN-2396049
The complaint
  This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs T hold with Nationwide Building Society. 
Theyre unhappy that Nationwide has reported missed payments on their credit files; they 
believe Nationwides errors caused the payments to be missed. They want to move house 
and say the missed payment markers are stopping them from doing do. To put things right, 
Mr and Mrs T have asked for all missed payment markers to be removed from their credit 
file.
What happened
  The above summary is in my own words. The basic background to this complaint is well 
known to both parties so I wont repeat the details here. Instead Ill focus on the issues that 
remain in dispute and give the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair 
in the round. 
Did Nationwide try to collect the March 2020 payment on the wrong date?
No it didnt; the due date was 28 March 2020, but that fell on a Saturday. Where that 
happens, banking rules require the payment to be collected on the following Monday. 
Nationwide tried collecting the payment on Monday 30 March 2020; however due to other 
direct debits called that day from other creditors, Mr and Mrs Ts bank was unable to pay 
Nationwide. 
The order in which direct debits are paid are a matter for the paying bank, not the collecting 
bank (or in this case building society). So Nationwide is not to blame for Mr and Mrs Ts 
payment for March 2020 being missed, and therefore the late payment marker was correctly 
recorded.
Did Nationwide do enough to tell Mr and Mrs T the March 2020 payment had been missed?
Yes it did; Ive seen a copy of the letter it sent to tell them the March 2020 payment hadnt 
been made. Im aware Mr and Mrs T say that other occasions, theyd received text alerts as 
well as a letter, but didnt on this occasion. I accept what they say, but Nationwide doesnt 
have to use more than one medium to tell people theyve missed a payment. 
Mr and Mrs T say the letter never arrived; I dont disbelieve them but that doesnt alter the 
fact that Nationwide sent it.  In any event, given how important an issue this was to 
Mr and Mrs T  and keeping in mind its their responsibility to make the payment  it wouldnt 
be unreasonable to expect that they would check their bank account to make sure 
everything had happened as it should.
Did Nationwide mishandle the payment holiday request?
Thats not clear-cut, but Im not convinced its material to the outcome of the complaint 
overall. Mr and Mrs T say they asked for a one-month holiday, for April 2020. The request 
was made on-line, and Nationwide has told us the system is pre-programmed to accept 
three-month requests. A three-month request was approved and Ive seen a copy of the 
letter Nationwide sent Mr and Mrs T to confirm the approval; it clearly states that the holiday 
is for three months. 
Either way, however, Im not convinced of any detriment Mr and Mrs T have suffered as a 
consequence of the payment holiday being registered for three months. When it was 
subsequently drawn to their attention, they agreed to have it for two months, and resume 
making payments in June 2020.
If the payment holiday had been set for one month only then yes, a direct debit payment 
would have been collected in May 2020. But that payment could either have been treated as 
the May payment or as clearing the overdue March payment. It couldnt do both, so it would 
have changed nothing.
Did Nationwide miss an opportunity to remind Mr and Mrs T about the missed payment from 
March 2020?
Yes it did; in conversation on 8 June 2020, Nationwide should have told them the 
March 2020 payment was still outstanding. Had it done that, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs T 
not only could, but would, have paid it there and then instead of several weeks later. They 
had the money in savings to do so. But for that omission, the mortgage would have been 
fully up to date from that point, and thered have been no reason for Nationwide to continue 
reporting the missed payment from March 2020 in June or July 2020.
I understand how much Mr and Mrs T want to move house; but even after Nationwide has 
implemented the remedy Im proposing here for the mistake it did make (always assuming 
Mr and Mrs T accept my final decision) there will still be on their credit files missed/late 
payment markers from August and December 2019. Ive not found any reason to consider 
either of those arise from an error on Nationwides part.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final settlement, I direct Nationwide Building 
Society to remove the markers placed in June and July 2020 in respect of the missed 
March 2020 payment from Mr and Mrs Ts respective credit files. I make no other order or 
award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2021. Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman