DRN-1597290
The complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a 
mortgage.
What happened
Mr B took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1994. Mr B paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered him in case he was off work sick or 
lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Bs mortgage application offered him the choice to take out PPI or turn it down. The 
option to buy PPI was chosen, the option to turn it down was left blank, and Mr B signed the 
form to confirm his choices. He also chose his level of cover and checked he was eligible for 
it. From what Ive seen, the policy was displayed as optional, and was not a condition of his 
mortgage. His mortgage offer confirmed the policy he chose and set it out as a distinct cost. 
Ive not seen any wider problems with Lloyds sales process from the time, nor any evidence 
which shows that they misled Mr B here or put him under any unfair pressure. So on the 
balance of probabilities, I think its most likely that Lloyds made Mr B aware he had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time.
Mr B provided a letter from a couple of years after the sale, saying that his mortgage advisor 
had left the bank. He feels this means the advisor was fired, and that this is evidence of 
them mis-selling his PPI. But while I appreciate Mr Bs point of view, Im afraid I dont think 
this is relevant. The letter only says that the employee no longer worked there, not that they 
were fired. It is perfectly normal for people to change jobs or leave companies, for all kinds 
of reasons. Indeed, they can be let go for all kinds of reasons. I dont think this has any likely 
relevance to the sale of this PPI policy some years prior. 
Its not clear whether Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Lloyds if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr B, Ive assumed they did. That 
means Lloyds had to check the policy was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr B was eligible for the 
cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
While Mr B had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and 
covered him for longer. According to the documents from the time, he only had limited 
savings. And the PPI meant he could, in effect, protect those savings and use them for other 
things. Its worth bearing in mind that the mortgage was a very significant, long-term 
commitment. There was no guarantee that Mr B would have the same employment situation 
or benefits in the years to come, and if he fell behind on his repayments he couldve lost his 
home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful for him in protecting his home and 
providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr B about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. Here, it looks like Mr B chose to take out PPI, which indicates he wanted this type of 
cover. As I explained above, Mr B wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt 
cover, and it couldve really been useful for him in case something went wrong. The policy 
was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim, and it looks like it 
wouldve been affordable. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr B could 
cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely 
to have put him off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Mr B mentioned that hes had refunds of other PPI policies, and I understand why 
hes raised this. But different policies worked in different ways, were suitable in different 
circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, and so on. So even if 
one policy was mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean that a different one was, too. We look 
at each case on its own merits, and Ive explained above why I have not found that this 
particular policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman