DRN-3041590
The complaint
Mr H says his St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) partner misguided him on 
the execution and valuation of a switch of funds (instructed on 23 March 2020/the date) 
within his Retirement Account (RA). He instructed a switch from a number of invested fund 
units to units in SJPs money market fund. SJP concedes that he was misinformed in the 
matter. 
Mr H says he agreed to a settlement because he was under duress, but he considers the 
matter should be re-visited. He also says he lost trust in the partner and sought to transfer 
(out) his RA but SJP unreasonably refused to waive its Early Withdrawal Charge (EWC); 
and that, despite his loss of trust in the partner (due to the misinformation he provided), SJP 
unreasonably refused to allocate a new partner to him.
He seeks redress for all the above.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. Overall and in the main, she found as follows:
SJP argued that the switch related matter should not be addressed and is beyond 
our jurisdiction because it had been settled with Mr H on a full and final basis. Mr H 
initially agreed that only the EWC waiver and partner reallocation matters need be 
addressed, but he subsequently argued that the switch related matter should be re-
visited.
In terms of our jurisdiction, the complaint about the switch meets the relevant rules. 
SJPs point about the settlement is understood but there remains scope to address 
what Mr H has said about the matter. In doing so, the following is noted  Mr H was 
led to believe that a switch instruction given before 12pm on the date will be 
executed on the date and that the unit values at 12pm will apply; this was wrong, 
instead the relevant cut-off time was 5.30pm and switches instructed before this time 
would then be executed on unit values as of 12pm the following day; this meant that 
whilst Mr H had been misinformed there had been no loss to him in the matter 
because his pre-12pm instruction was executed on the following days (12pm) unit 
value in the same way as a pre-5.30pm instruction would have been executed; either 
way the switch could not have been based on unit values at 12pm on the date; to 
compensate him for the misinformation he agreed and accepted settlement based on 
a refund of the previous 12 months Ongoing Advice Fee (OAF) and a payment of 
£750 for trouble and upset; this came to a total of £1,440.30 and was generous in the 
circumstances, so there is no basis to ask SJP to pay more.
There is no complaint about unsuitable advice in this case and there is evidence that 
the EWC was disclosed to Mr H as part of the terms and conditions he agreed to at 
the inception of his account. Illustrations he was given when his account was being 
opened in 2011 also provided clear, simple and prominently presented information 
about charges payable. For these reasons, there is no ground to say SJP should 
waive the EWC in his case.
SJP declined Mr Hs request for a new partner because he had made his intention to 
leave SJP very clear and was already moving funds out of his account. In these 
circumstances, it made a legitimate business decision.
Mr H disagreed with this outcome and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He said SJPs 
error in the switch related matter was never rectified, that his loss in the matter was not 
addressed and that the notion of him being able to leave SJP is misleading given that his 
funds were/are  locked for the 6 years when so much losses have been incurred in the 
last few years due to the lack of advise and poor funds to invest with SJP. The matter was 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Switch Instruction of 23 March 2020
Both parties settled this matter in August 2020. Mr H signed the relevant settlement 
acceptance form on 20 August 2020, in which he agreed that the settlement was in  full 
and final settlement of [his] complaint against St. Jamess Place  and that he released 
and discharged  all and /or any claims, rights, demands and causes of action, whether or 
not presently known to parties, which [he had] or may have against [the partner] and St. 
Jamess Place Wealth Management plc in relation to [his] complaint . This settlement was 
reached after SJPs first complaint response and its response to Mr Hs appeal  the 
settlement proposal was made within its appeal response.
In his submission to this service in late 2020 Mr H said the partners change of stance  from 
previously supporting his complaint to supporting SJPs complaint response  left him with 
no choice but to accept the settlement. He said something similar earlier, in his email to SJP 
of 20 August 2020. In that email he also said he had accepted the settlement in order to  
avoid further stress and void [sic] waiting months for the Ombidsman [sic] decison [sic] and 
decided to move on and exit SJP as soon as practicable. In his response to the 
investigators view Mr H said it was wrong to consider the settlement as fair and that the 
investigator had not taken into account the intimidation suffered in the process.
SJPs position is that the settlement concluded the switch related matter, so it should not be 
re-visited. I have considered the correspondence around the settlement and I have found 
SJPs approach to have been broadly cordial and respectful towards Mr H. It gave him 
apologies for the wrongdoing it conceded, it expressed appreciation for his custom, it 
referred to him as a valued client and it hoped that he would continue to remain a client. I 
have not seen evidence that establishes the intimidation he has claimed (or suggested). His 
partner was transparent about his written input into the complaint investigation. He sent Mr H 
a copy of that input and its contents were supportive of the conclusion that Mr H had been 
misinformed  which appears to have been helpful in SJP conceding the same in its 
complaint decision.
Overall and on balance, I consider that Mr H accepted and agreed to the settlement by his 
free will. He received a refund of a years OAF and £750 for trouble and upset  both 
payments received for the misinformation he was given. Like the investigator, I consider that 
this was a generous package. Based on the circumstances of his case, it is possible that I would not have found grounds to award a refund of advice related fees  mindful that, 
amongst other aspects, the matter was about inaccurate information and not about 
unsuitable investment advice; and it is not alleged that Mr H was denied the associated OAF 
service. Whilst I agree that trouble and upset was caused to Mr H and should be 
compensated for, because the effect of the misinformation was quite limited (before it was 
corrected) it is unlikely that I would have awarded as high £750. For these reasons, I am not 
persuaded that SJP should have to do any more.
Available evidence is that the invested units in Mr Hs RA were forward priced  which is not 
unusual for such assets. The fact is that, even without the misinformation he received, 
execution of his 23 March instruction would not have been based on valuation as of 12pm on 
that date. So long as the instruction was received before the 5.30pm cut-off time, valuation 
as of 12pm the following day is what applied. If he says clarification on this at the time could 
or would have altered his instruction, it appears that at any future point he instructed the 
switch the valuation would remain based on forward pricing. Value would still have been 
unknown and somewhat unpredictable at the point of instruction and would still have been 
based on pricing as of 12pm the following day. Consequently, it does not appear that the 
misinformation made a direct difference to the pricing Mr H could achieve for the switch or 
that it led to a financial loss. In such circumstances, there does not appear to be grounds to 
compensate for financial loss.
EWC
I endorse and incorporate the investigators findings on this issue. It is not disputed that 
fees/charges relevant to SJPs/the partners service were disclosed to and agreed by Mr H at 
the outset of the service. That information included provisions for the EWC. Mr Hs argument 
is essentially that the misinformation for which SJP is responsible was sufficient to justify his 
loss of trust and confidence in the partner (and in SJP) and that such circumstances also 
justified his wish to transfer his account away from SJP without incurring an exit cost.
In another case with different circumstances such an argument might have merit  for 
instance, where sufficiently detrimental unsuitable investment advice and/or investment 
mismanagement has been established and has damaged trust and confidence, it could be 
fair for the complainant to withdraw assets without exit costs. In Mr Hs case, I am not 
persuaded that enough happened to justify such an outcome. 
As I said above, there is no complaint about unsuitable investment advice in his case and it 
is not alleged that he was denied the OAF service from the partner  and, in any case, he 
has already received a refund covering OAF fees for the 12 months up to settlement of the 
misinformation matter. The misinformation was an isolated incident that does not appear to 
have caused a financial loss. SJP readily accepted responsibility for it and, as I also said 
above, it has compensated Mr H generously for it. 
I do not say or suggest that Mr H was/is wrong to have lost trust and confidence in SJP. That 
was/is a personal determination for him to make and he was/is entitled to the conclusion he 
reached. However, that does not automatically mean he is also entitled to a waiver of the 
EWC  and I have explained, above, why I am not persuaded that he should be given such a 
waiver in his case.
Allocation of a new partner
It is implicit in the fact that Mr H sought to transfer his account out of SJP that he could do so 
and that he was not locked in as he seems to assert. Had SJP agreed to waive the EWC it 
is likely that he would have proceeded with the transfer. I note this in order to address his view on the investigators finding that SJP was not 
unreasonable in declining his partner reallocation request. There is correspondence 
evidence in which Mr H stated and repeated his intention to leave SJP. With a waiver of the 
EWC, it is more likely (than not) that he would done so. In these circumstances, SJPs 
decision not to allocate the resources of a new partner to his account was not unreasonable. 
I might have considered differently if Mr H only sought a new partner, without a desire to 
leave SJP, and that he did that because of his loss of trust in the particular partner he had  
but that was not the case. As far as SJP knew (and was informed), his account was on its 
way out because he had lost trust in SJP as a whole. It does not appear to have withdrawn 
its service from Mr H  there is correspondence from the partner to him dated 1 September 
2020 which confirmed the partners service would continue unless Mr H terminated it  but it 
was not prepared to refresh that service with a new partner. There is also evidence that 
suggests no other partner was prepared to undertake the account at the time, because of his 
plan to transfer it away from SJP. 
Furthermore, the notion of asking for a new SJP partner also appears to be inconsistent with 
Mr Hs declaration of loss of trust in SJP as a whole. As he said in the email of 20 August 
2020, he wanted to exit SJP as soon as practicable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman