DRN-2879204
The complaint
Ms M, on behalf of her company I, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money 
she lost when she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
 In December 2019 Ms M fell victim to a scam.
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But in summary, both parties accept that Ms M was contacted by a fraudster, 
pretending to be from a third-party bank, who Ms M also held an account with. The fraudster 
told Ms M that a transaction had been attempted on her account and they wanted to confirm 
it was her. When Ms M confirmed she had no knowledge of the transaction, the caller told 
her that they suspected a member of staff, at the third-party bank, was involved in internal 
fraud. The caller told Ms M they had been working with the police and would like her 
assistance in catching the rogue employee, who was in the act of moving money from her 
account and the police were about to arrest them.
Ms M has said she did ask the caller how she could be sure it was the bank that was calling. 
The caller told her that she could check the number that had called her on her phone, with 
the telephone number on the reverse of her bank card. Ms M could see that the numbers 
matched. The caller was also able to confirm a number of genuine transactions from Ms Ms 
third-party account, that she had carried out in recent days.
Ms M was told that an attempt was being made to transfer money from her account and that 
she should set up a transfer for £2,000  which would assist in helping catch the employee 
in the process of committing the crime. Ms M was told that the money would instantly be 
refunded to her. Believing the caller to be genuine and in the belief that she was assisting 
her bank and the police, Ms M went ahead and arranged a transfer for £2,000, from her 
third-party bank, to the account details she was given. Ms M was told that this was an 
undercover investigation and that she shouldnt tell anybody about her involvement until the 
perpetrator had been caught.
Having made this payment, the caller told Ms M that the employee had also somehow 
managed to access the business account she held with HSBC and was attempting to 
transfer £8,000.  Ms M has told us she is unsure how the caller knew she also held an HSBC 
account. Ms M, still convinced she was speaking to a genuine bank employee and helping 
the bank and the police, followed their instruction and transferred £8,000 from Is business 
account to the account details provided by the fraudster. The transaction meant Is business 
account went further into an arranged overdraft facility.
Following this, Ms M was told that a further £15,000 was attempting to be transferred from 
her savings account.  At this point, Ms M had been on the phone for over two hours  and 
where she couldnt see the refunds had been made to her account immediately, as had been 
promised, she started to become suspicious. Ms M has said she put the phone down and 
dialled the number for the police, but before she got through the fraudster called her back, 
explaining that if she did that the operation would fail. Ms M then contacted the police on her 
landline, when it was confirmed she had been the victim of a scam.
Ms M contacted her third-party bank and HSBC to report the scam. The full amount she lost 
from her third-party bank has been refunded to her.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case.
HSBC wrote to Ms M on 23 December 2019. It said it should have done more to protect and 
advise her before she made the payment. But it added that Ms M could also have taken 
more responsibility and conducted more checks prior to making the payment. So it thought 
they should share the responsibility and offered to refund half of the money I had lost, and it 
went ahead and refunded £4,000. Alongside this, HSBC contacted the receiving bank and 
was able to recover a further £158.96, which it refunded to I.
Ms M didnt think this went far enough and complained to HSBC. HSBC issued its final 
response on 14 February 2020. It said that while it appreciated the frustration and stress 
caused, Ms M willingly made the payment. In its submission to us HSBC also said it 
provided effective warnings and that Ms M didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the 
payment she was making was genuine.
Ms M then brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things and recommended that Is complaint be upheld. In summary, he didnt think HSBC 
had been able to establish that Ms M should not be refunded because she had ignored an 
effective warning. He thought this because the warning, HSBC said Ms M would have seen, 
didnt relate to the type of scam Ms M fell victim to.
Our investigator also thought Ms M had a reasonable basis for believing she was genuinely 
speaking to her bank. In summary, he said this because; the number that had called her was 
the same number as on the back of her bank card, Ms M wasnt aware at the time that 
phone numbers could be spoofed, the fraudster was able to confirm genuine transactions on 
her account, the fraudster while initially calling about an account Ms Ms held with another 
bank, was also aware she had a business account with HSBC and Ms M believed the money 
was going to be returned to her immediately.
Our investigator explained that Ms M genuinely thought she was helping the bank/police with 
their enquiries and so she didnt consider it an option that she could hang up the phone. Our 
investigator also pointed out that these types of scams are sophisticated and intended to 
create panic. Overall, he didnt think it unreasonable that Ms M didnt take any further steps 
to validate the caller  she thought she was genuinely protecting her money and assisting 
with an internal fraud investigation.
Alongside this, our investigator also thought HSBC missed an opportunity to identify the 
scam before the payment was made. He said this because he thought the payment Ms M 
was making, was not typical for how the account was run and so should have been flagged 
by HSBC before being processed. Our investigator considered this was consistent with 
HSBCs own findings, where it said it could have done more to protect Ms M.
HSBC responded and disagreed with our investigators opinion. In summary it said;
- the investigator had not taken into account the characteristics of the customer. And 
that a commercial enterprise should reasonably be expected to be vigilant to fraud- it didnt consider I had a reasonable basis for belief that the payment was for 
genuine services, or that who it was liaising with was legitimate 
- the circumstances of the scam where inherently implausible and would have caused 
a reasonable person to question them. Specifically, why would a third-party bank 
employee be party to information about a HSBC account
- Ms M did nothing to verify the information she was given and there was no apparent 
understandable rationale for a customer to move their own money to aid an 
investigation
- it thought Ms M was seemingly suspicious from the outset. But did not allay those 
suspicions.
- it accepted an effective warning was not provided and in light of the exceptions under 
the CRM code it feels it has correctly refused to refund greater than 50% of the 
payment.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case has now been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded I the full amount it 
lost. And I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply 
in the circumstances of this case.
- In the circumstances HSBC should fairly and reasonably refund the money I lost.
HSBC, although admitting it could have done more to protect I before the payment was 
made argue that;
- Ms M made the payment without a reasonable basis of belief that the person they 
were paying was legitimate.
HSBC, while indicating it is submission to us that Ms M also ignored an effective warning, 
has clarified in its later submissions that it has accepted an effective warning was not 
provided, so I will not explore that point any further in this decision.
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations that Ms M did not have a reasonable 
basis for believing she was making a payment to a genuine source, but they do not 
persuade me to reach a different view. In particular, Im not persuaded Ms M failed to take 
the requisite level of care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under the terms of 
the CRM Code. In reaching my decision, Ive had regard to the scene that was set by the 
fraudster and the impact I believe this reasonably had, in all the circumstances, on Ms Ms 
thoughts and actions.In this case Im satisfied that HSBC has not shown that Ms M lacked a reasonable basis of 
belief because:
- It appears the fraudster used social engineering techniques in order to gain her trust 
(providing her with details of information that she reasonably would have thought only 
her bank would have known, such as genuine recent transactions on her account)
- Ms M did challenge the caller initially, asking them how she could be sure they were 
genuinely calling from her bank. The caller suggested that she check the number that 
was calling her with that on the back of her bank card.  Where Ms M saw these to be 
the same, it persuaded her the caller was genuine. Which I think is reasonable 
considering I dont think Ms M would have been aware, especially in the absence of a 
warning, of how safe account or impersonation scams typically work, and how a 
fraudster can spoof a genuine number. 
- I dont think HSBC has given enough consideration to the fact the fraudster had 
created an environment where Ms M, as well as helping her bank, also thought she 
had to act quickly to protect her money.  Shes told us that the caller was professional 
and convincing.  The convincing nature of these scams can often have a negative 
effect on a persons thought process and make them take steps that, in the cold light 
of day they might not otherwise take. 
- I dont think it unreasonable for Ms M not to have questioned how the caller had 
details of her HSBC account, when they said they were from a bank she held another 
account with. The sophistication of the scam enabled the fraudster to spoof a banks 
genuine telephone number which re-assured Ms M they were genuine. She was 
further persuaded when the caller provided Ms M with details of genuine transactions 
from her third-party bank account. Im also mindful that at this point Ms M had been 
taken in by the fraudster and was deep into the scam, no doubt making this seem 
plausible to her. 
- In following what she believed to be the instructions of her bank to protect her money 
and assist them, I find Ms M did have a reasonable basis for believing the transaction 
was being made in connection with a legitimate service. In all the circumstances, I 
dont find it unreasonable for Ms M to have believed her bank was asking her to do 
this.
- I agree with HSBC that the characteristics of the customer are relevant.  But I havent 
seen anything here to persuade me that just because Ms M was acting in the 
capacity of a director of a business, it would make her any less susceptible to this 
type of scam.
Overall, in light of all the circumstances here, and in line with the requirements of the CRM 
Code, and while I acknowledge it is finely balanced, Im not satisfied HSBC has been able to 
establish that Ms M acted without a reasonable basis for belief when she sent the payment. 
Could HSBC have done anything else to prevent the scam?
Our investigator said that, on top of his findings around the application of the CRM Code, 
HSBC ought to have done more to prevent the fraud from occurring. That was on the basis 
that the payment out of the account was particularly unusual.The bank has obligations to monitor accounts and to act when it appears a customer might 
be at risk of fraud or financial harm. Given, Ive decided I shouldve been reimbursed under 
the provisions of the CRM Code, in the circumstances of this complaint my finding on this 
has very little impact.
I do think the bank ought to have stepped in to question the payment, given it represented 
unusual activity on the account. I think HSBC ought to have made enquiries about the 
purpose of the payment before processing it. Had it done so, I think it more likely than not 
the scam would have been revealed and prevented.
While Im aware Ms M had been given a cover story for the payment she made from her 
third party bank  its not clear whether she was also given a cover story for this payment. 
And Im also aware that Ms M was told not to discuss the payment with anybody. But even if 
Ms M had been given a cover story, victims are often given cover stories and, in my 
judgement, HSBC could and should have done more, using probing questions to get into the 
detail and test the purpose of the payment.
The scam Ms M fell victim to is well-known to banks and had HSBC probed and given 
appropriate warnings, its more likely than not the story would have unravelled and either 
HSBC or Ms M would have realised that something was wrong.
HSBC has said it feels Ms M was suspicious from the outset. Im not persuaded thats the 
case  more I think she initially took care to ask questions of the caller to satisfy herself that 
they were genuine. But I do think this also supports that it wouldnt have taken much for the 
spell to be broken (as was the case when Ms M didnt receive her money back immediately).
With this in mind, I think had HSBC probed more, explained about common types of scams 
and highlighted that this payment was not typical of how her account was usually run, it 
would have made a difference.
Putting things right
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as Ive 
explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money that 
was lost. So I think its fair that HSBC;
- refund the remaining money I lost (less any money already returned/recovered)
- refund I any additional overdraft charges/interest that have been incurred as a result 
of this money being lost
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Is complaint against HSBC 
UK Bank Plc and order it to pay the redress I have indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman