DRN-1965761
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc recorded a missed payment on his credit file in 
relation to a credit card account he thought had been closed. 
 
What happened
Mr D completed an account switch from Santander to another bank. On 6 June 2019 Mr D 
cleared the outstanding balance on his credit card. Mr D says he was told all his accounts 
would switch as part of the process. 
The Santander credit card wasnt included in Mr Ds account switch and the £3 monthly fee 
continued to be applied. Santander continued to send Mr D monthly statements. In 
September 2019 Santander sent Mr D a notice of arrears. Santander also added a £12 late 
payment fee to Mr Ds outstanding balance and reported a missed payment on his credit file. 
Mr D subsequently repaid the outstanding balance and his credit card was closed in 
October 2019. 
Mr D complained about the missed payment Santander had reported on his credit file. 
Santander didnt agree it had made a mistake and didnt offer to remove the late payment 
from his credit file. Santander said there was no evidence it had ever told Mr D his credit 
card had been closed. 
Mr D referred his complaint to our service and has explained that, due to the nature of his 
work, a missed payment on his credit file will cause serious problems. But the investigator 
thought Santander had dealt with Mr Ds complaint fairly and didnt ask it to remove the 
missed payment. Mr D asked to appeal and reiterated that a member of staff in his local 
branch had told him his accounts would be switched to his new bank. As Mr D asked to 
appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how concerned Mr D is about the missed payment recorded by Santander. 
I appreciate that Mr Ds credit file is an important part of how he earns a living. But, I have to 
be fair to both parties. I need to decide if the information Santander has reported is accurate 
and whether it fairly reflects what happened. 
All parties agree that Mr Ds credit card wasnt closed as part of his account switch. As a 
result, the monthly fee accrued and ultimately reached a level where Santander reported a 
missed payment to the credit reference agencies. Mr D says a member of staff at Santander 
specifically told him his accounts would be switched and that he understood this to include 
his credit card. Santander, in turn, say there is no record Mr D visiting a branch to obtain 
advice about the process and that all its members of staff know a current account switch 
doesnt include a customers credit card. 
I note that both parties have provided very different versions of what happened. Where we 
received different information from each side, Ill base my decision on the balance of 
probability. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened based on all the available 
information and evidence. Ive focused on the information Santander gave Mr D about his 
credit card after his current account was switched.   
Mr D says that if hed known about the monthly fee and debt hed have taken steps to 
resolve the situation sooner. But Santander continued to send Mr D credit card statements in 
the post each month. Whilst those statements didnt show any new spending, they did show 
the monthly fee accruing and balance increasing. Santander didnt record a missed payment 
on Mr Ds credit file until September 2019 which means it sent him two monthly statements 
showing an increasing outstanding balance before taking that step. 
If Mr D thought his credit card and all his other accounts had been switched, I think 
Santander could reasonably have expected him to get in touch on receipt of the statements 
and correspondence he received beyond the switch date. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, but I havent been persuaded to uphold his complaint. I 
appreciate Mr D thought the credit card had been closed after the 6 June 2019 payment. But 
Santander hadnt been asked to close the credit card down and continued to apply the 
monthly fee, in line with the terms and conditions. Santander sent Mr D monthly statements 
in June, July and August 2019 before registering the missed payment on his credit file so I 
feel it did provide a reasonable amount of time for the arrears to be repaid. I appreciate my 
decision will disappoint Mr D, but I havent been persuaded Santander said his credit card 
would be closed as part of the account switch. As I havent found Santander made any 
errors or treated Mr D unfairly, Im not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman