DRN-4049739
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly offering her an 
overdraft and allowing her to increase the limit when there were gambling transactions on 
her account. She says this led to struggles with debt and bad anxiety.  Miss H wants Lloyds 
to refund the balance of her overdraft.
What happened
Miss H held an account with Lloyds. In February 2019 Miss H was granted an overdraft with 
a limit of £300 which increased to £450 in April and to £1,000 on 13 February 2020 and 
continued increasing until it reached £2,750.  
Miss H complained to Lloyds that the overdraft lending had been irresponsible. Lloyds didnt 
think the initial lending up to £450 was irresponsible as Miss H didnt appear to have had any 
other debts and there werent any transactions on the account to suggest it was unsuitable. 
But it agreed to uphold Miss Hs complaint from 13 February 2020 when it increased her 
overdraft to £1,000 as if it had reviewed her application it wouldve seen transactions 
indicating she might be experiencing problems. It agreed to refund all charges and interest 
from this point amounting to £859.15 and remove Miss Hs overdraft.
Miss H was unhappy with this as she would still be left with an outstanding debt following 
this and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked at this and thought that the initial lending was affordable but 
that from December 2019 gambling transactions started to show on the statements which 
wouldve been apparent to Lloyds at the next review in February 2020 which is when it 
agreed to uphold Miss Hs complaint from. They thought what Lloyds had offered to settle 
the complaint is in-line with what wed recommend and didnt think it needed to do anything 
more.
Miss H disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Miss H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. But for complaints about funds which shouldnt have been provided this isnt straight 
forward as the funds were provided and, in most cases  such as here, have long since 
been spent.
So we look to try and find some other way to put things right. And where a business 
increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have 
realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd 
be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This means wed 
normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the 
point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest and 
charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case after reviewing Miss Hs statements and information about her incomings and 
outgoings up until February 2020 (the point where Lloyds shouldve reviewed her account 
when she applied for a further limit increase and where it has agreed to refund overdraft 
charges and interest),I dont think that there was anything in the information Lloyds had 
which suggested Miss H wouldnt be able to repay the initial overdraft lending of £450 within 
a reasonable period of time had she chosen to and that it shouldnt have approved this initial 
lending.  
Miss Hs statements show she received a regular salary of around £1,300 to £1,500 a month 
and had no outgoing commitments. Miss Hs statements show that although she did use her 
overdraft, she also managed to see a credit balance regularly and that the majority of the 
spending on her account was discretionary - on retail, food and leisure. So I dont think it can 
be said that there were obvious signs of financial difficulty or that her overdraft was 
unaffordable. 
But from December 2019 gambling transactions started to appear on Miss Hs statements 
and these increased in frequency and amount in the months that followed. So I think that 
when Lloyds increased her overdraft limit in February 2020 if it had carried out a proper 
review of her account it wouldve seen there were signs Miss H was having some problems 
and that her overdraft may no longer have been sustainable. However, because Lloyds has 
already agreed to uphold Miss Hs complaint from this point, I dont need to make a finding 
on this. 
Lloyds has already agreed to settle Miss Hs in-line with what Id expect as outlined above. 
In this case, Miss H has been left with an outstanding balance on her overdraft, once all 
adjustments have been made, and shes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges 
caused by her overdraft from February 2020  and she is unhappy with this. 
But even though Lloyds has done what Id normally expect it to do we do look at each case 
individually and on its own particular merits. And while we have a general approach to how 
we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it provided credit it shouldnt have 
(such as here), we can and will tell it to do something different and/or something more if 
theres a strong reason to say thats what would be fair and reasonable to do in the 
circumstances of that individual case.
Miss H says Lloyds should do something different here. She says her struggles with debt 
have caused her considerable anxiety and mental health problems. Ive thought about what 
Miss I has said. And although I sympathise with Miss H, what shes said is a reason for 
upholding her complaint rather than a reason for departing from our normal approach to 
putting things right in cases such as hers. 
All the interest, fees and charges Lloyds shouldnt have added have been removed from 
what she now needs to pay. So what Miss H is left with to repay are the funds which she used and I dont agree that the interest, fees and charges have left her with a debt that she 
wouldnt otherwise have been left with. 
In these circumstances, and bearing in mind Miss H spent the credit, I think its perfectly fair 
and reasonable to expect Miss H to repay these funds. And I dont think that Miss Hs 
unhappiness at having a balance to repay on her overdraft, even after her complaint has 
been upheld, is in itself a compelling reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already offered to do to put 
things right for Miss H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case and Im not 
persuaded further compensation is warranted, so Im not requiring Lloyds to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Miss H is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
So Im not requiring it to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman