DRN-4405388
The complaint
Mr J complains that Tide Platform Limited cold-called him, placing him in a vulnerable 
position. 
What happened
In July 2023, Mr J received a call from Tide, out of the blue. The caller asked Mr J whether 
they could ask him some questions as they needed to complete security. Concerned that he 
was being targeted for fraud, Mr J ended the call as the caller sounded suspicious.
Following the call, Mr J checked the number and the results confirmed it had come from 
Tide. He then contacted them via his online app. The agent he spoke with checked and 
confirmed the call was made by someone from Tide and that they would contact the relevant 
department to gain more detail. 
The agent also raised a complaint for Mr J and confirmed that the call was made in order to 
let him know about additional services that were on offer for him to use while having a Tide 
account. 
Mr J said this call put him into a vulnerable situation, causing him distress and making him 
concerned about the safety of his account. Given the number of fraudulent calls that are 
made in the world today, he was suspicious, especially as businesses tell people not to 
accept calls that are made out of the blue. 
To resolve his complaint, Mr J would like Tide to stop cold-calling customers and for them to 
pay him £500 for the distress caused when putting him into a vulnerable position. 
Tide responded to Mr Js complaint and explained that as a banking institution they provide 
additional services such as extra expense cards and other services. They said the call was 
made as they wanted to know whether Mr J needed any additional services to help him 
manage his business account. They confirmed the call was a genuine one, made by Tide, 
and that they had followed the correct verification process in order to make sure they were 
speaking with the account holder only. 
Mr J wasnt happy with Tides response so brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and was of the view that Tide hadnt done anything 
wrong. While he fully acknowledged Mr Js concern regarding the dangers of fraudulent calls 
being made, he didnt find that there was anything suspicious or untoward about the call that 
was made, and that the caller was obligated to ask security questions to make sure they 
were speaking with the right customer. 
He also explained that our service wasnt able to take any action against Tides policy on 
calling customers out of the blue. For these reasons, he didnt ask Tide to do anything 
further. 
Mr J disagreed and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for the same reasons. I know this will come as 
a disappointment to Mr J, so I will explain why I have reached this conclusion. 
I have checked Tides website and can see that in a section titled Stay safe from fraud they 
explain that they will never ask a customer to share their details or move funds to another 
account. The personal details they talk about include login details, QR codes and one-time 
passcodes. Tide also confirm that theyll never ask for account balances, full card numbers 
or the three security code digits on the back of a card. Theyll also never ask a customer to 
move money - even if their account is compromised. Theyll simply block it and secure it 
instead.
I have also had a listen to the call. The agent introduced themselves and asked whether they 
could run through some questions with Mr J in order to go through security. Mr J asked what 
the call was regarding, and the agent explained the call was in relation to Mr Js Tide 
business banking account. He said he wanted to make sure everything was up to date and 
working as intended. As Mr J found the call suspicious, he ended it. 
Mr J is right in that we are seeing a lot of fraudulent activity in todays current climate, so I 
can certainly understand why he may have been suspicious and felt he had been put in a 
vulnerable situation when Tide called him out of the blue. 
However, while I accept this was a genuine concern for Mr J, I cant see that Tide have done 
anything wrong here by calling him. Businesses can call their customers to offer different 
products and services, and here I can see that Tide followed the correct process in trying to 
verify Mr J to make sure they were speaking with the correct person. As Mr J found the call 
suspicious, he hung up and contacted Tide through his app, and they were able to confirm 
that the call had been a genuine one. 
Having reviewed everything, its my decision that while I appreciate Mr Js strength of feeling 
on the matter, I cant say that Tide did anything wrong in contacting him out of the blue. And 
Im pleased to note that the call was a genuine one, meaning Mr Js account is safe and 
secure. 
Because of this, I will not be asking Tide to do anything further.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman