DRN-2494547
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK plc (when it was trading as Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out by Mr C in 2001. The policy 
provided cover for Mr C if he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it
recommended was suitable for Mr Cs needs?
- Did Santander give Mr C the information he needed to decide whether to
take out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
C is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different 
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr C says he doesnt remember PPI being discussed when he arranged his mortgage, and 
he didnt know it had been added to his account. Ive noted everything hes said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr C and Santander 
when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many years ago, and 
that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
But I note that the mortgage application Mr C completed included a section about PPI. This 
included options for Mr C to accept, decline or consider the PPI. Handwritten notes on Mr 
Cs form suggest he planned to take out PPI through his mortgage adviser (although from 
what Ive seen, on balance I think its likely that Mr C eventually took the cover through 
Santander). But the notes suggest to me that Mr C was aware of the PPI and intended to 
buy the cover.
So on balance I think Santander made Mr C aware the PPI was optional and he chose to take it 
out. 
Santander accepts that it advised Mr C to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
- There is nothing to suggest that Mr C wasnt eligible for the policy. 
- Mr C says he would have received some work-related benefits if he couldnt work 
due to sickness or accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition to his 
occupational benefits and would mean he could use those benefits to pay for other 
expenses. 
Mr C has also mentioned he had a property he couldve sold if things went wrong. 
But money from a property sale may not have been immediately available when he 
needed it. So I think Mr C would have had some use for the policy despite his 
existing arrangements.
- Mr C wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such 
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely he needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations.
- I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was made clear to Mr C before he agreed to 
buy it. But Mr C chose to take out the policy, knowing he would have to pay 
something for it. The policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. 
So I think it unlikely he would have made a different decision if better information 
about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. As Ive already said, Mr C wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr C would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he would still have 
taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman