DRN-3455509
The complaint
Miss A complained because Lloyds Bank plc refused to refund her for a transaction which 
she said she didnt authorise.
What happened
On 2 August 2021, Miss A saw a debit on her Lloyds account for £213.97, to an online 
business she didnt recognise. She rang Lloyds, and Lloyds issued a temporary refund while 
it investigated.
Lloyds contacted the online business about the transaction. But the online business told 
Lloyds that Miss A had placed an order with it. And it had Miss As correct details, including 
her name, address, card details  including the security CVV number on the back of the 
card. And the seller also produced a Royal Mail tracking number, which said an item was 
delivered to Miss As address on 28 August.
Miss A had gone on holiday shortly after the disputed transaction, and she was still away 
when the delivery arrived. When she got back, she found a small package with one pair of 
socks in it  which she said wouldnt have been worth the £213.97 in any case. Miss A tried 
to get in touch with the seller, but couldnt do so. 
Lloyds didnt uphold Miss As claim. In its final response, it explained that the seller had 
provided Miss As correct details and evidence of a delivery. So it took back the temporary 
refund on 30 September. 
Miss A complained to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss As complaint. She said that she could see that the card 
details, including the security CVV number on the back of the card, had been used, and also 
that the billing address matched the delivery address on the Royal Mail tracking. She said 
that Lloyds had provided enough evidence to suggest that it was most likely that Miss A had 
consented to the transaction. She suggested that as Miss A believed the item wasnt worth 
the money charged, she could take this up with the seller.
Miss A didnt agree. She said that getting in touch with the seller was the first thing shed 
tried to do when the problem appeared. She hadnt been able to get in touch with them, and 
she couldnt understand how Lloyds had been able to contact them either. She also couldnt 
understand how anyone had been able to get her CVV security number. So she asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations about disputed transactions. The relevant ones for Miss As 
transaction are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. This transaction is called a 
distance contract which are transactions carried out online or over the phone, not in 
person. With a distance contract, in general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt 
authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. So what Ive 
considered is whether its more likely than not that Miss A authorised the transaction.
Ive seen evidence which shows that the seller provided Lloyds with Miss As name, address, 
card details and CVV number. Ive also seen the Royal Mail receipt which shows a parcel 
being delivered to Miss As registered address.
An important issue here is how any fraudster could have obtained Miss As details, including 
her name, address, card details, and the CVV security number which is on the back of the 
card. I asked Miss A for more information, to try to establish whether there could have been 
any point of compromise when a fraudster could have obtained her card.  I asked whether 
there had been any occasions when shed been away and didnt have her card; whether 
there had been any places where shed used her card before the 2 August disputed 
transaction where she thought someone else might have been able to gain access to her 
card; and whether it had been lost or stolen.
Miss A replied that no-one else had access to her card. She lives with her partner but keeps 
it with her the whole time. She said that she thought her information had probably been 
hacked, as that was the only way this could have happened. She said shed tried to get in 
touch with the seller but hadnt been able to do so.
I cant say with certainty whether or not Miss A authorised this transaction. But it often 
happens that this service doesnt have all the evidence wed like. In these situations I take 
my decision on what I think is more likely to have happened, taking all the circumstances 
and available evidence.
Ive seen from Miss As account statements that the disputed £213.97 transaction was out of 
character for her account. At the time, her other pattern of spending was for living expenses 
and for much smaller amounts. And I can see that Miss A feels strongly about this, and that 
she tried to contact the seller, Action Fraud, etc. So this inclines me to think it was less likely 
that Miss A authorised the transaction.
But its hard to escape the fact that the transaction was authorised using Miss As details, 
including the CVV which was on the back of her card. Miss A hasnt been able to suggest 
any ways in which the card might have been compromised. And a package  albeit one 
which wasnt worth £213.97  was delivered to Miss As address. Its hard to explain why a 
fraudster might have used Miss As card to have any goods delivered to Miss As address  
because they wouldnt have had any benefit from the fraud. Lloyds has also confirmed that 
there were no other attempted transactions which were prevented by the block which it put 
on Miss As card. It would be unusual for a fraudster only to attempt one transaction.
In view of these issues, I can only conclude its more likely than not that Miss A did authorise 
the transaction. Its possible that she did so and the seller didnt send what shed paid for. 
But thats not a matter for which Lloyds is responsible, as it would be a dispute between Miss 
A and the seller. The role of this service is to identify whether or not the bank treated Miss A 
fairly and reasonably. In view of the evidence provided by the seller, I think Lloyds acted 
fairly and reasonably when it wouldnt refund Miss A, and I dont require it to do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman