DRN-3392751
The complaint
Miss W has complained about her motor insurer Calpe Insurance Company Limited as she 
thinks it paid out too much for another drivers claim after she caused an accident.
What happened
Miss W has a policy with Calpe and for any claim she is required to pay an excess of up to 
£3,000. Miss W collided with a parked, occupied car. She accepted she was liable. But when 
Calpe settled the claim for the other drivers costs (car repair and minor injury), it came to 
over £8,000. And Calpe said she would have to pay it £2,357.17  being the excess sum 
less the cost of repairing her car (which was £642.83).
Miss W complained as she felt Calpe hadnt done enough to defend her side  that the other 
car had pre-existing damage and the impact had not been enough to cause injury. And, 
because it had not, she had been left needing to pay nearly £3,000. Calpe said it had initially 
sought to defend the amount of damage and injury being claimed for. But its solicitors 
advice was its prospects for success were not good. So, Calpe said, it had settled the claim 
in-line with the costs requested by the other party. Miss W complained to us.
Our Investigator felt that Calpe had acted fairly and reasonably. So she didnt uphold 
Miss Ws complaint. Miss W asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that it will be difficult for Miss W to find the remaining excess amount her policy 
requires her to pay Calpe. But Im not persuaded Calpe did anything wrong in settling 
matters the way that it did. 
I see that Miss Ws liability for the incident is not in doubt as she collided with the parked, 
occupied car. But I can also see that Calpe did initially looked to defend the extent of the 
claim from the other party. It sought CCTV footage  but none was available. And it arranged 
several engineer reports. All of which found that the damage claim for the other car was 
probably exaggerated with pre-existing damage likely being claimed for. And it was felt that if 
the damage which was thought to be pre-existing was discounted, then the injury claim 
would fail too. 
However, Calpe then received a forensic report from the other party. And Calpe sought 
advice from its solicitor. The solicitor said the forensic report should be sent to Calpes 
engineer for review. Calpe did that. The solicitor then reviewed matters again, in light of 
Calpes engineers review and some medical evidence that had been received. The solicitor 
said that, in his view, the court would most likely favour the forensic report. And that the 
court would also likely find that even a low speed impact could have caused the minor injury 
the other driver was claiming for. The solicitor recommended Calpe should settle the claim 
without risking costs rising any further. 
In this instance, I cant fault Calpe for settling in the way that it did. It initially looked to defend 
Miss Ws position. But it reasonably needed to respond to the new evidence as it came in. 
And it did that by seeking further expert views as well as gaining advice from its solicitor. 
I cant fairly say Calpe should have ignored its solicitors advice. 
Ultimately Calpes policy allows it to settle claims in the way it sees fit. Although it does have 
to use that right reasonably. Having reviewed everything I think it has done so on this 
occasion. As such I cant reasonably say that Calpe should have done more or that it acted 
unfairly in settling the claim from the other party as it did. Miss Ws policy requires her to pay 
the first £3,000 of any and all claims (where those claims exceed that sum). And I note that 
Calpe has deducted her repair costs from the excess, only asking her to pay the difference 
remaining. Overall I think that Calpe handled matters fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Calpe Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman