DRN-3660765
The complaint
Mr C complains about delays in transferring his individual savings account (ISA) from 
Darlington Building Society (DBS) to another financial business which resulted in DBS 
charging an interest penalty.   
What happened
Mr C held a fixed rate ISA with DBS. The ISA was due to mature on 30 November 2021. On 
maturity, the balance would be reinvested into a new one-year fixed rate ISA with DBS. Their 
term and conditions gave Mr C a window of between 1 and 14 December 2021 to provide 
instructions for the maturing balance without incurring any penalty. 
On or around 9 December 2021, Mr C contacted another financial Business  Ill call this 
business X. He completed an application for a new ISA with X together with a transfer form 
to arrange for his matured fixed rate ISA with DBS to be transferred into the new account. 
But Mr C was later told the transfer was delayed for technical reasons. He understands 
there was a discrepancy with his date of birth.
Mr C says the transfer was eventually completed on 7 January 2022. But because of the 
delay, when the transfer was completed, DBS deducted an amount equivalent to 120 days 
interest from the balance. Mr C wasnt happy with this. He thought DBS shouldve been 
aware of his intention to transfer the ISA prior to expiry of the window on 14 December. So, 
he complained to DBS.
DBS investigated Mr Cs complaint and responded in writing in February 2022. They said Mr 
Cs transfer request was first received by them on 23 December 2021 but was initially 
rejected due to a discrepancy with his date of birth. As this was outside the 14-day window, 
they said the interest penalty was correctly applied. DBS didnt agree theyd done anything 
wrong.
Unhappy with DBSs response, Mr C referred his complaint to this service. He believed DBS 
were aware of his transfer intention prior to expiry of the transfer window. So, they shouldnt 
have charged the interest penalty. Hes also unhappy that DBS didnt inform him that the 
request had been rejected due to the date of birth discrepancy. He says he was only told this 
by X.
Having looked at all the available information, our investigator didnt think DBS had done 
anything wrong. They found that DBS didnt receive the transfer request until 23 December  
which was outside of the transfer window. By that time, Mr Cs maturing balance had been 
transferred to a new fixed rate ISA with DBS and the interest penalty had been charged in 
line with their terms and conditions. Our investigator was satisfied DBS had completed the 
transfer within a reasonable timeframe.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators findings. He said X had confirmed to him that DBS 
had rejected the transfer request at sourceon 9 December but DBS didnt tell either him 
or X.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Cs complaint has been passed to me to consider 
further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I should clarify that it isnt the role of this service to ask a business to alter their 
policies or processes or impose improvements on the level of service offered to their 
customers. These aspects fall firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Mr Cs experience with them. When considering his complaint, Ive also 
considered any relevant rules and regulations where they apply.
DBSs terms and conditions relating to Mr Cs maturing fixed rate ISA confirm that it had a 
maturity date of 30 November 2021. No withdrawals were permitted before then. DBS have 
provided a copy of a letter they sent to Mr C on 16 November 2021  two weeks before 
maturity. They said the ISA would mature into a new one-year fixed rate ISA from 1 
December 2021. It also said that it could be transferred out to another ISA provider penalty 
free between 1 and 14 December 2021. But there would be 120 days loss of interest from 
15 December if account closed.
Mr C says he completed his transfer request with X on 9 December 2021 This was three 
business days before the transfer window closed. But DBS say they didnt receive the 
request until 23 December 2021  outside the transfer window. So, I need to understand 
what happened between those dates.
Our investigator contacted X to better understand what had happened. X provided copies of 
their own file notes. They included two notes. One from 31 December 2021 which said, DBS 
wanted to know the date we first received the customers transfer request. Advised 13/12/21 
a modulus fail due to sort code and a/c number. Then the customer had been into branch 
23/12/21 and then this was relogged for customer which then failed due to the DOB. A 
further note said, confirmed with customer that original isa transfer on 9 dec had 
automatically rejected due to sort code and account number details we were given were 
incorrect. I think this explains why DBS didnt receive the request promptly after Mr C 
completed it with X. 
ISA transfers between providers are completed using an automated system. That system 
has inbuilt checks to verify the details input. If the sort code and account number details are 
wrong, it could lead to a request being rejected before it even reaches DBS. From the 
information Ive seen, I believe thats what happened here. So, I dont believe DBS couldve 
been aware of Mr Cs intention to transfer his ISA.
DBS have provided evidence to show they first received the transfer request on 23 
December. But Mr Cs date of birth details didnt match what they had on their records. So, 
DBS referred the request back to X who contacted Mr C.
Mr C has confirmed an ongoing discrepancy with his date of birth. He says his passport and 
driving license show two different dates. So, it seems this may have contributed to the 
discrepancy. I cant reasonably hold DBS responsible for that as it wouldnt have been within 
their control. In any event, the request received on 23 December was already outside the 
transfer window and Mr Cs ISA balance had already been reinvested into a new fixed rate 
ISA by that point.
X resubmitted the transfer request to DBS on 31 December 2021 with a date of birth 
matching that held by DBS. This request was accepted, and Mr C says the transfer was 
completed on 7 January 2022  eight business days after the first request DBS received on 
23 December. ISA transfer rules say you can transfer a cash ISA to another cash ISA with a different provider. It should not take more than fifteen working days. I dont think the 
timescale here was unreasonable. Particularly as it passed over a public holiday period. So, 
I cant reasonably conclude that DBS unduly delayed matters.
I do appreciate and understand Mr Cs frustrations. He thought hed given sufficient time for 
the transfer to be completed. In reality, the initial request doesnt appear to have been 
delayed by the date of birth issue. Rather, due to the initial account number and sort code 
discrepancy. But I cant reasonably hold DBS responsible for that. And despite the 
discrepancy with Mr Cs date of birth, the transfer was still then completed well within the 
timescales Id expect.
I also think DBS were entitled to charge the interest penalty they did. Having not received 
instructions from Mr C within the transfer window, theyd done exactly what theyd told Mr C 
theyd do by transferring the funds into a new fixed rate ISA. So, any subsequent closure 
outside of the window attracted an interest penalty.
I realise Mr C will be disappointed, but I wont be upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman