DRN-2767514
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Experian Limited reported incorrect information on his credit file.
What happened
Mr R had a loan with repayments of £230 a month for 60 months, but on his Experian file it 
showed as being £996 a month for 13 months.
In September 2020, Mr R discovered this and reported it to Experian. Experian queried this 
with the lender, who confirmed the data was correct, but also said that Mr Rs payments 
were in fact the lower amount. Experian said they noticed the contradiction in the lenders 
reply and so corrected Mr Rs file to reflect the payments as £230/month.
Shortly afterwards, the lender stopped reporting to Experian and decided to use a different 
credit reference agency instead. The loan was deleted from Mr Rs Experian file.
Mr R complained. He said hed applied for a mortgage but was turned down because of the 
incorrect information.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that the lender had given Experian the wrong information, so it wasnt Experians 
fault. They said Experian had done what theyd expect them to do by querying and 
correcting the data once Mr R told them something was wrong.
Mr R didnt agree. He said the lender had blamed Experian for the incorrect data. He also 
said that Experian were now no longer showing his full credit report. The complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Broadly speaking, Experian have to rely on the information that lenders give them. Its the 
lenders who own the data that gets reported.
Ive looked at the information Experian were sent here, and it looks like they accurately 
reported what the lender gave them. So I cant see that the incorrect information was due to 
any error by Experian.
Of course, I would expect Experian to query things if they were told the data was wrong. And 
thats what they did here. Once Mr R let them know the report was wrong, they got in touch 
with the lender promptly, checked things, and adjusted the file.
As far as I can see, Experian are not withholding the information about Mr Rs loan. It looks 
like the reason its not on his Experian credit file anymore is because the lender chose to use 
a different credit reference agency and are no longer reporting to Experian. And its the 
lender who owns the data and chooses where to report it. If they choose not to share the 
data with Experian anymore, then Experian are not able to show it on the file.
So while I do appreciate that this has been a most frustrating experience for Mr R, I have not 
found that it was due to any error by Experian.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Experian Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman