DRN-3892355
The complaint
Mr G complains that his bank Metro Bank PLC (Metro) has refused to refund the money he 
has lost following him falling victim to a scam. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr G was searching for investment opportunities online when he came across a 
business call Monafoli (X). Mr G completed a contact form and X called him back to discuss 
the investment.
X persuaded Mr G that the investment opportunity was genuine. Mr G was advised to 
download the screen sharing application AnyDesk, and to transfer funds to X via the 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchange Crypto.com. 
Mr G was confident the investment was genuine as he could see his funds online via Xs 
trading platform, but later found he was unable to withdraw any of the funds he had paid in 
and had fallen victim to a scam. 
Mr G made the following payments to X via Crypto.com using his Metro Mastercard debit 
card:
1. 18 January 2022 - £4,771.93
2. 18 January 2022 - £4,773.35
3. 19 January 2022 - £1,249.58
Our Investigator considered Mr Gs complaint and thought it should be upheld. They thought 
Metro should have stepped in when Mr G made the second payment on 18 January 2022 
and had a meaningful conversation with Mr G about the payments he was making. They 
thought that if Metro had stepped in it was likely the scam would have been uncovered and 
Mr G would not have made any further payments.
Metro bank disagreed it said Mr G had authorised the payments and confirmed in a call with 
Metro that the payments were genuine. So, it was not responsible for his loss.
As Metro disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mr G and Metro set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether Metro should 
refund any of the money Mr G has lost because of this scam.
Metro was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mr G made in relation to this 
scam to Crypto.com via his debit card.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr G was dealing with X, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mr G didnt 
make the debit card payments to X directly, he paid a separate cryptocurrency exchange 
(Crypto.com). This is important because Metro was only able to process chargeback claims 
against the merchant he paid (Crypto.com), not another party (such as X).
The service provided by Crypto.com would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Mr Gs payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Crypto.com provided the service that was 
requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mr G paid. As Crypto.com 
provided the requested service to Mr G any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
Its been accepted that Mr G authorised the payments that were made from his account with 
Metro, albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Mr G is responsible. 
However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Metro should have been aware of the scam and stepped in to 
have a meaningful conversation with Mr G about the payments, and had Metro stepped in 
whether it would have been able to prevent the payments from being made.
I have looked at the payments Mr G made into the scam. 
On 18 January 2022 Mr G made two payments to Crypto.com, for £4,771.93 and £4,773.35. 
Mr G had not made payments to Cryto.com before and it was unusual for him to make 
consecutive large payments in the same day. While I wouldnt necessarily have expected 
Metros fraud prevention systems to have been triggered by the first payment of £4,771.93, I 
think they should have been triggered by the time Mr G attempted to make the second 
payment of £4,773.35 the same day.
Had Metros fraud prevention systems been triggered I would have expected Metro to stop 
the payments Mr G was attempting and to have had a meaningful conversation with him 
about the payments.
I think its likely that if Metro asked Mr G what the payments were for, and further questions 
about how the payments came about, it would have found that Mr G had found the details of 
X online and was being asked by X to send money to it via a cryptocurrency exchange (key 
indicators of a scam). 
In addition to this, if Metro had searched the financial conduct Authority (FCA) warning list it 
would have found that X had been added to the list around a month before.So, I think Metro would have been able to uncover the scam by the time Mr G was 
attempting to make the second payment to X and prevented any further loss.
On 19 January 2022 after the above payments were made to Crypto.com Metros fraud 
prevention systems were triggered and it blocked payments Mr G was attempting to make 
via his debit card. Mr G was required to call in to unblock his card.
Metro has told us that when it spoke to Mr G he confirmed the payments were genuine. 
Metro has explained its not required to do more than this and would not have been able to 
prevent the scam based on the information provided by Mr G. Metro has provided a copy of 
this call recording, and a second call that was made to Mr G the same day by one of its staff.
During the first call the Metro representative asked Mr G to verify several transactions that 
had been attempted to CRO for different amounts The Metro representative only confirmed 
that it was Mr G that was making the payments. It was discovered later in the call that Mr G 
was buying Bitcoin but still the Metro representative failed to ask any further questions about 
the payments that could have potentially uncovered the scam.
The second call Metro had with Mr G was a follow up call to the first. The same Metro 
representative explained Metro were seeing a lot of fraudulent transactions to CRO and she 
was checking it was him that had made the call. 
This call lasted around two minutes with around 90 seconds of the call being taken up by an 
initial security check. 
During both calls Metro only confirmed Mr G was the person that had made the payments 
from his account. Mr G was honest in his answers. As explained above, I think that If Metro 
had a more meaningful conversation with Mr G around the reasons he was making the 
payments its likely Mr G would have explained how he had found the investment opportunity 
and Metro would have uncovered the scam. 
I dont think the questions Metro asked in either of these calls were sufficient enough to 
uncover the scam Mr G had experienced or warn him against it. In any event the block was 
placed on Mr Gs account after he had made all three payments to Crypto.com so it was too 
late to prevent any of the previous payments being made.
As Ive said above, I think Metros fraud prevention systems should have been triggered and 
it should have stepped in to have a meaningful conversation about the payments Mr G was 
making from the second payment he made on 18 January 2022, and if it had done so it is 
likely it would have been able to prevent Mr G incurring any further loss.
So, Metro should refund the second and third payments Mr G made in relation to the scam.
Putting things right
To put things right I require Metro Bank PLC to:
Refund all the payments Mr G made into the scam from the second payment he 
made of £4,773.35.
Add 8% simple interest per year to the amount it pays Mr G from the time Mr G made 
the payments to the time Metro Bank PLC provides the refund (less any lawfully 
deductible tax).My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Metro Bank PLC to put things right as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman