DRN-2920065
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs B complain that Metro Bank PLC blocked and closed their accounts. And took 
too long to release funds held in the accounts back to them. 
What happened
Mr A and Mrs B had personal and business accounts with Metro. Their complaint regarding 
their business accounts are subject to a separate complaint. This decision will focus on Mr A 
and Mrs Bs complaint about their three personal accounts.
In July 2019, Metro reviewed Mr A and Mrs Bs three personal accounts. Whilst it completed 
its review Metro blocked the accounts  which meant they couldnt access the funds in the 
accounts. The accounts were blocked from July 2019 until March 2020.
As part of the review Metro, in September 2019, Metro asked Mr A  and Mrs B to provide 
information, which they did promptly. In December 2019, Metro asked for more information 
regarding Mrs Bs right to stay in the UK, as the paperwork it had on file wasnt up to date. In 
February 2020 Mr A explained to Metro that he couldnt provide the documents the bank 
requested about Mrs B as the Home Office were experiencing delays due to the impact of 
the Covid pandemic. 
Following its review, Metro decided to close Mr As and Mrs Bs accounts. In March 2020, 
Metro wrote to Mr A and Mrs B and gave them 60 days notice to make alternative banking 
arrangements. 
Mr A complained to Metro about the block and closure of the accounts. He explained he and 
Mrs B had been caused a great deal of stress, anxiety and inconvenience because they 
couldnt access the funds in the accounts for a number of months. And the banks actions 
had placed him and his family in financial difficulty. Metro said it hadnt done anything wrong 
and had acted in line with the terms of the accounts and relevant regulations. 
Mr A wasnt happy with the banks response. He wants the bank to provide a proper 
explanation for why it blocked and closed the accounts. So, he brought his complaint to our 
service. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She thought Metro hadnt done anything 
wrong when it blocked and closed Mr As and Mrs Bs accounts. She said theyd acted in line 
with their legal and regulatory obligations. And had treated them fairly when it decided to 
close their accounts. 
Mr A disagreed. He wants the bank to provide a proper explanation for why it closed the 
accounts. He also says the bank took too long to complete its review and believes the bank 
closed his accounts because he is Mrs Bs husband. And they werent able to provide 
information due to Home Office delays, which were caused by the pandemic. So, he says 
the bank hasnt acted fairly. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr A has told us and Metro that he feels very strongly about his and 
Mrs Bs complaint. I appreciate that he and his wife are upset that Metro blocked and closed 
their accounts. And I can understand that this was no doubt stressful for them especially as 
the banks actions made it difficult for them to manage their finances and they had to lean on 
others for help. I can also see that they had to go to the time and effort of collating and 
providing information to Metro. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied that 
the bank has done something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
Firstly, as the investigator has already explained, Metro has extensive legal and regulatory 
responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers, including 
accounts held by businesses. And to fulfil these obligations they may need to review activity 
taking place on accounts and ask customers for information, for example about payments, 
and information about the individuals operating the accounts  its entitled and obliged to 
carry out such checks. The terms of Mr As and Mrs Bs  accounts also permit Metro to 
review an account and ask its customers for information. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Metro to block the accounts and ask Mr A and Mrs B for information. Metro has explained 
that this was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so 
Metro were complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, whilst I accept, the banks 
actions caused Mr A and Mrs B inconvenience in blocking its accounts and put Mr A to the 
trouble of gathering and providing information, I cant say the bank has treated him or his 
wife unfairly when it reviewed the accounts. 
I understand that Mr A wants Metro to explain the reason it applied the blocks to the 
accounts in the first place. But Metro doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review 
of their accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr A the reasons behind the account 
review and block, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by 
not giving him this information. I appreciate Mr A believes his accounts were blocked simply 
on the basis he is married to Mrs B  but Ive not seen anything to support this. 
Mr A says Metro took too long to complete its review of the accounts. He says the bank 
should have done things more quickly. Because of the blocks Mr A says he was stretched 
financially and had to lean on others for support. I do accept that it took around eight months 
for Metro to release the funds held in the accounts and remove the account blocks. But I 
dont consider that it would be right for me to conclude it shouldnt have taken in excess of 
any particular or specific timeframe. Because the bank was entitled  as a matter of principle 
 to do what it did in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
I also note that Metro spoke to Mr A on more than one occasion about what was happening 
and explained to him what information it needed him to provide. So, I think Metro kept Mr A 
informed about what it was doing. And I dont think its unreasonable that the bank needed 
time to examine what Mr A had provided and complete the review in line with its legal 
obligations. Ive looked at the timeline and can see that Metro didnt cause any delays and 
were trying to complete its enquiries as quickly as possible. Ive also kept in mind that Mr A 
had trouble providing information to the bank because of delays with the Home Office  so 
this had a knock on effect to the banks review. But I cant hold Metro responsible for delays 
being experienced by another agency. I then turn to the banks decision to close the accounts. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed. As long as they reach their decisions about that in a legitimate manner, 
this service wont usually intervene. Im satisfied here that the banks decision to stop 
providing Mr A and Mrs B with banking facilities was reached legitimately and fairly.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Metro gave Mr A and Mrs B 60 days notice of its intention to close their accounts. The bank 
wrote to Mr A on 10 March 2020, letting him know the accounts would close. So, it was 
entitled to close the accounts as it has already done. 
Its clearly caused Mr A and Mrs B a great deal of inconvenience when they werent able to 
use their accounts. So understandably they are upset. And I appreciate it must have been a 
worrying and frustrating time for Mr A, Mrs B and their family. So, I realise they will be 
disappointed by my decision. But having looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this 
complaint, Im satisfied that Metro didnt do anything wrong when it blocked, reviewed and 
closed Mr As and Mrs Bs accounts. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman