DRN-1541368
 
The complaint
Ms K complains about Santander UK Plc account charges and that it didn't tell her that her 
account was overdrawn
What happened
Ms K says Santander charged her for being overdrawn when she didn't have an overdraft 
facility. She says it took some three months before it told her about the charges and as a 
student she can't afford the charges. Ms K would like all of the charges refunded and not just 
a month's worth of charges as Santander has offered.
Santander says it has not made a mistake and made the charges in line with account terms 
and conditions when Ms K's spending took her into an unarranged overdraft. It says it sent 
regular account statements to Ms K and as a gesture of goodwill, offered to refund one 
month's charges.
Ms K unhappy with that view brought her complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. 
The investigator thought Santander applied the charges in line with account terms and 
conditions when Ms K's account was overdrawn. And the investigator thought it was Ms K's 
spending that took the account overdrawn. The investigator thought Santander had sent Ms 
K regular account statements that showed the charges and why they were applied.
Ms K doesn't accept that view and says Santander took three months to tell her about the 
charges and overdraft and ought to have made contact sooner.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Ms K would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that charges will be 
applied when an account becomes overdrawn. I'm satisfied that is what has happened here. 
And so I don't think Santander made a mistake or acted unfairly by applying charges when 
Ms K's spending meant her account became overdrawn.
I appreciate that Ms K says Santander should have told her about the charges sooner. But I 
disagree and I think this was Ms K's account, and she was responsible for the management 
of it. I also think Ms K ought to have been aware of her spending and that Santander sent 
her regular account statements in which her balance and charges were shown.
I'm satisfied overall that Santander hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly and so I can't 
order it to refund charges that I think were applied correctly.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman