DRN-1590216
The complaint
Mr C complains that Target Servicing Limited, who administer loans owned by Coast 
Finance Solutions s..r.l. (for ease of reading, Ill refer to them throughout as Coast) didnt 
tell him that theyd taken over his loan account from another provider.  So he didnt know he 
had to change the payments he was making towards the loan.
What happened
Mr B took out a loan secured on his home.   He made payments for a number of years by 
monthly standing order.  
In May 2018, the lender transferred Mr Cs loan to Coast.  At that time they wrote to their 
borrowers to tell them this had happened and to explain what borrowers needed to do so 
their repayments continued.  
Mr C says he didnt get a letter from his former lender.  So he didnt make any changes to 
his payments.  Because of this, Coast didnt receive any payments from May 2018.  
In early 2019, Coast sent Mr C a letter telling him that his account was in arrears, so they 
were sending an agent to visit him to discuss the debt.  When he got this letter, Mr C phoned 
Coast to find out why they were writing to him.  Mr C complained during that call that hed 
never had the letter telling him his loan had been transferred.
Coast responded to his complaint.  They said that theyd written to Mr C in May 2018 telling 
him about the transfer and that theyre not responsible for post once theyve sent it.
Our investigator looked at the evidence.  They decided that Coast hadnt done anything 
wrong; Coast had told Mr C about the changes by writing to him and couldnt be held 
responsible if Mr C hadnt received their letter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.  Ill explain why.
From time to time, lenders transfer debts from one business to another.  When this happens, 
they need to make sure borrowers know and tell them if they need to do anything (for 
example, change how they make payments).  Ive seen the letter Coast sent Mr C when they 
took over his loan.  Im satisfied that it was sent to the right address and told Mr C what it 
should have.    
I understand Mr Cs frustration that he didnt know about the transfer for some months.  But 
that wasnt because Coast did anything wrong.  I cant hold them responsible for Mr C not 
receiving a letter that they posted to the right address.I know Mr Cs worried that, because he didnt know about the change, he made loan 
repayments to the wrong lender.  I agree it would be worrying if you made payments towards 
a debt which didnt get put towards that debt.  But Ive listened to the phone calls between 
Mr C and Coast and Ive heard that Coast said they would contact the previous lender about 
this.  When they did, the other lender told Coast it hadnt received any payments after the 
transfer date.  
Ive not seen any documents showing Mr C made any payments.  So I asked our 
investigator to contact him to see if he could provide something  for example, his bank 
statements  which would show what he says hes paid.  But hes not been able to provide 
anything. So, on balance, I cant see that Mr C has lost out by making payment he wasnt 
given credit for.
I know that Mr C will be disappointed by my decision.  But as I dont think Coast have done 
anything wrong, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask them to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint about Target Servicing 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman