DRN-3313018
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLCs (Barclays) started charging 
them for use of its overdraft facility in June 2020 without notifying them of the change. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K complained to Barclays about the overdraft charges applied to their account 
from June 2020. They say prior to this they enjoyed a fee free overdraft facility. They would 
like a refund of the charges incurred on their account. 
Barclays says the change in the rate was due to new government legislation in that the FCA 
had announced that all banks have to charge interest instead of a daily fee for using an 
overdraft and that Mr and Mrs K were notified in writing of the change in January 2020 but it 
didnt come into effect until June 2020. 
One of our adjudicators looked into their concerns and reached the conclusion that Barclays 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr and Mrs K unfairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs K disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Ive seen that Mr and Mrs K are complaining about the charges applied to their account 
when up until June 2020 they received an overdraft facility for free. But before I go any 
further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various amounts 
Barclays charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to 
the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Barclays various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr and Mrs K if 
it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr and Mrs Ks account in circumstances where 
it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr and Mrs K were 
experiencing financial difficulty or without notifying them of the change in fees in advance.
Barclays say it sent out as a letter notifying Mr and Mrs K of the change in pricing structure 
of its overdraft on 9 January 2020 due to come into effect in March 2020. Mr and Mrs K say 
they never received this. But Ive seen a copy of the letter it sent and it is correctly 
addressed. While it is possible that letters sometimes arent delivered correctly  more often 
than not they are. And I havent been given any specific reason why Mr and Mrs Ks letter 
wasnt delivered. So I think its likely Barclays letter was delivered correctly and gave Mr and 
Mrs K sufficient notice of the change in its charging structure. 
So Ive gone on to consider whether there were instances where Barclays didnt treat Mr and 
Mrs K fairly and reasonably and applied interest, fees and charges in circumstances where it 
ought to have been aware Mr and Mrs K were experiencing financial difficulty. I dont think 
that Barclays did treat Mr and Mrs K unfairly or unreasonably here though. I say this 
because having looked at Mr and Mrs Ks statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
Barclays ought to have realised they might have been experiencing financial difficulty.  
I can see that Mr and Mrs K had an overdraft facility of £3,900 which was used heavily  
which I can understand why, as up until June 2020, it was free credit. But there were regular 
deposits of salary and cash transfers into the account and I can see that when Barclays 
implemented the change in pricing structure for its overdraft facility Mr and Mrs K held more 
than £80k in their savings account  meaning Mr and Mrs K could have easily paid off their 
overdraft if they had chosen to do so.  
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Barclays to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr and Mrs Ks account was 
being used. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs K would like Barclays to continue to provide them with free 
credit - but Barclays is under no obligation to provide this and Mr and Mrs K are free to shop 
around if they arent happy with what is on offer.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Barclays treated Mr and Mrs K 
unfairly or unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman