DRN-3196316
The complaint
Mr M complains about Allegiant Finance Services Limited (AFS) and the fee they charged 
after he received a refund following a successful claim for irresponsible lending on a high-
interest loan.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr M instructed ASF to pursue a claim for irresponsible lending on his behalf 
against lender C, who had provided him with a high-interest loan that he felt was 
unaffordable. To do this, Mr M signed a letter of authority (LOA), letter of engagement (LOE) 
and Financial Ombudsman Service claim form. A few days later, ASF submitted Mr Ms 
claim to lender C.
In June 2020, after lender C hadnt responded to ASF and Mr Ms claim within the set period, 
ASF referred the claim to the Financial Ombudsman Service. And Mr M was updated to this 
effect. But in October 2020, lender C upheld Mr Ms claim and offered him a post-tax refund 
of £3,295.27. Mr M accepted this refund directly with lender C and because of this, ASF 
werent made aware of the claims success.
On 2 February 2021, the Financial Ombudsman Service made ASF aware lender C had 
upheld the claim in October 2020 and provided ASF with a copy of lender Cs final response 
letter. So, later that month, ASF invoiced Mr M for their success fee of £988.58, which 
equated to 30% inclusive of VAT of the refund Mr M received. Mr M was unable to pay this 
fee in one lump sum due to the time that had elapsed since hed received the refund. So, 
ASF agreed to accept Mr Ms payments in instalments and the fee was fully repaid by 
August 2021. But Mr M was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr M explained hed spoken to a solicitor whod told him ASFs fee was unreasonable for the 
work they completed. So, he didnt think ASF had calculated their fee fairly or correctly. Mr M 
explained the fee has impacted his financial situation and caused him to struggle with his 
debts. And Mr M raised concerns about an invoice hed received that was intended for 
another customer. So, he wanted ASF to refund the fee hed paid and compensate him for 
the upset hed been caused.
ASF responded and upheld the complaint in part. They accepted theyd sent Mr M an invoice 
intended for another customer and apologised for any upset this caused. But they thought 
theyd acted in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement Mr M entered into when 
charging their fee for Mr Ms successful claim. And they didnt think the delay in issuing their 
invoice was their responsibility as neither lender C nor Mr M had made them aware a refund 
had been accepted. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. 
Mr M remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the fee ASF 
would charge was made reasonably clear in the terms and conditions of the agreement Mr M 
signed. And they were satisfied the fee ASF did charge fell in line with these. As there was 
no fee cap in place for claims such as Mr Ms, they didnt think ASF had acted unfairly by 
charging the fee. They also didnt think ASF were responsible for the delay in invoicing Mr M, 
as ASF werent made aware of the claims success until February 2021 and an invoice was 
raised in the same month. And they thought ASF had acted fairly by allowing Mr M to repay 
the fee in instalments to recognise the length of time that had passed since hed received the 
refund. So, our investigator didnt think ASF needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree. He didnt think ASF had acted fairly as theyd refused to take on other 
claims he wanted to progress and that theyd only taken this one as they thought itd be 
successful. He maintained his view that the fee was excessive and that a more affordable 
repayment plan shouldve been agreed. He also thought he should be compensated for the 
letter that was sent to him in error. As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. I appreciate Mr M has 
received advice from a solicitor about the fee ASF have charged and I understand why this 
has influenced his decision to complain. And I dont doubt it wouldve been alarming for Mr M 
to receive an invoice for a significant sum several months after hed received the refund as I 
think its likely this refund wouldve been spent. So, I can appreciate why Mr M thinks ASF 
have acted unfairly due to the financial strain hes likely to have suffered paying their invoice. 
But for me to say ASF should refund this fee, Id need to see one of two things. Either, Id 
need to be satisfied the invoice they charged fell outside of the terms and conditions of the 
agreement Mr M entered into. Or, if I think the fee was charged within these, Id need to see 
that the work ASF completed was of no value to the successful claim, and refund, Mr M 
received. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Mr M doesnt dispute that ASF completed the work that led to the successful claim. Ive seen 
ASF submitted the claim to lender C and to the Financial Ombudsman Service when lender 
C hadnt responded within a reasonable amount of time. Throughout this process, ASF 
provided Mr M with updates and theres no evidence to suggest that Mr M was unaware, or 
didnt want, ASF to work on his behalf. So, Im satisfied the refund Mr M received was 
because of the work ASF completed. And so, I think theyre entitled to charge a fee for this.
But I recognise the fee ASF charges needs to be fair and reasonable. And for me to be 
satisfied this is the case, Id expect the fee to be calculated in line with the fee information 
included within the terms and conditions of the agreement Mr M signed.
Ive seen these terms which explain clearly Our success fee is 30% inclusive of VAT on any 
cash in hand you receive before providing fee examples. And the fee ASF invoiced Mr M for 
works out to be 30% of the total cash in hand refund he received from lender C. So, Im 
satisfied the fee ASF invoiced Mr M for fell in line with agreement Mr M entered into and 
because of this, Im unable to say ASF acted unfairly.
I recognise Mr M has received advice which he feels suggests the fee ASF have charged is 
excessive. But there is no fee cap in place on claims such as the one ASF made on Mr Ms behalf. So, essentially, a business such as ASF can charge any percentage fee they want as 
long as its made reasonably clear to the customer. In this case, I think ASF made both the 
fee, and the fact Mr M could make this claim himself, clear within the terms and conditions of 
the agreement. And Mr M agreed to these terms when signing both the LOA and LOE. I 
understand Mr M says he may not have read all the documents at the time he signed these, 
but I cant say this is the faulty of ASF. So, Im unable to agree the fees charged are unfair or 
unreasonable.
Ive then thought about the length of time it took ASF to invoice Mr M for their fee. I 
recognise there was around a five-month delay between Mr M receiving his refund and 
receiving the invoice from ASF. But Ive seen ASF werent made aware of the refund until 
February 2021 as lender C contacted Mr M directly, who accepted their offer without ASF 
being made aware. So, I dont think ASF were able to invoice Mr M until February 2021 and I 
think they did so within a reasonable amount of time after they were made aware of the 
claims success. So again, I dont think I can say ASF acted unfairly.
But I do recognise Mr M was likely to have spent the majority, if not all, of the refund due to 
the amount of time that had passed. And Id expect ASF to consider this when seeking 
payment of their fee. I can see they agreed a repayment plan with Mr M, allowing him to pay 
the fee off in instalments with the balance being cleared in August 2021. I think this shows 
ASF acting positively and sympathetically to Mr Ms situation and I wouldnt have expected 
them do anything more. I understand Mr M was unhappy with the payment plan agreed but 
this isnt something our service is able to consider or investigate further as its an informal 
arrangement set up between both parties. I can only consider whether ASF acted positively 
and sympathetically and in this situation, I think they have.
And finally, Ive thought about Mr Ms comments regarding the invoice ASF have accepted 
they sent to him in error in August 2021. And I recognise how, initially, this may have caused 
Mr M some worry. But I can see ASF have clarified it was an error and apologised for this. I 
cant see that a second invoice or any further chasers about this fee were sent. And it wasnt 
Mr Ms personal data that was shared incorrectly, it was ASFs customer who the invoice 
was intended for. So, I think the apology ASF have offered is reasonable on this occasion 
and I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. And I recognise it doesnt agree 
with the advice Mr M has received so I can appreciate Mr M may remain unhappy. But I 
hope it goes some way to explaining why I think ASF have acted fairly in this situation.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Allegiant Finance 
Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman