DRN-3907310
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way QIC Europe Ltd handled a claim he made under his home 
insurance policy following a fire that damaged his home. 
Reference to QIC includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter last month, part of which is copied below:
Mr D had a home insurance policy, underwritten by QIC, that covered him for loss or 
damage caused by fire. In September 2020 there was a fire in Mr Ds home that caused 
damage to the property. He contacted QIC and it accepted his claim to repair the damage 
caused. Work began to repair the roof of Mr Ds property before work could then begin to 
repair the damage to the inside of the house. In November 2021 Mr D made a complaint to 
QIC. He said the roof hadnt been repaired correctly and he raised a number of issues with 
the way the builders had carried out the repairs. He also said QIC had stopped paying for 
alternative accommodation for his family after a year and said it should continue to pay until 
the works had been completed. Mr D also wanted compensation for the stress QIC had 
caused. 
QIC liaised with Mr D but progress was slow. An impasse was reached whereby QIC 
believed the roof had been repaired to an acceptable standard while Mr D didnt think it had 
been. He didnt want to start on the internal works until that was done. QIC said Mr D had 
agreed to a cash settlement to repair the internal damage. It said it had offered about 
£32,000 for those works. And it offered £3,000 by way of compensation for the issues raised. 
Our investigator thought QIC needed to do more to resolve matters. She thought QIC should 
cover all the costs of repairing Mr Ds roof to an acceptable standard. She also thought it 
should pay the alternative accommodation costs until it was safe for him to return to his 
property. And she said QIC should pay Mr D £1,500 for the significant distress and 
inconvenience its caused. 
QIC said the roof had been signed off by the local authoritys building control, so it was 
happy it had been repaired to an acceptable standard. And it thought it had done enough to 
resolve the complaint. But Mr D doesnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
  
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I wont set out every detail mentioned in Mr Ds complaint but I have read through all of the 
information we have on file and will focus instead on the key points hes raised. 
Repair of the roof
Mr D made a long list of issues he believed needed to be resolved before he would be 
satisfied the roof had been repaired to an acceptable standard. QIC said that some of the 
issues Mr D was concerned about had been included in the scope of works for the internal 
damage. Looking at that scope, that appears to be the case. For example, additional 
insulation for the loft is included in the scope for the internal works. As is work on the 
chimney, including repairing and cleaning the chimney breast, and checking the safety of the 
gas boiler. Mr D also queried why some of the ceilings hadnt been plaster boarded. But, 
again, this is included in the internal works. 
I can understand why Mr D would want to resolve these issues before work begins on the 
internal works but, with the view to progressing matters, I think it would be best for QIC to sit 
down with Mr D and work through the scope of what needs to be done internally and agree a 
cash settlement offer. Mr D has said he will accept a cash settlement. And while QIC has 
said the original scope was agreed in principle, its clear Mr D isnt happy with it. So, I think 
QIC should do that as soon as possible.
One of Mr Ds main concerns is about the way the roof has been constructed. He doesnt 
believe it has been built to the required standard under building regulations. For example, he 
raised concerns about the thickness of the ridge board and the deflection of the rafters. Mr D 
also raised concerns about the repairs done to the seals on the roof valleys in the extension. 
And the insulation in the extension. QIC responded to these points by saying the local 
building control inspector had visited and signed off the work. It said the sag of the roof was 
discussed but the inspector was satisfied it was well within acceptable limits. Thats 
supported by the certificate provided by the local authority which shows that the work had 
been completed in compliance with building regulations. I recognise that Mr D is still not 
happy with some aspects of the roof build. But, in light of the evidence Ive seen, I think its 
fair for QIC to say the roof has been constructed to an acceptable standard. 
QIC said that a number of other issues raised by Mr D had been resolved. But Mr D doesnt 
agree. He said repairs to broken tiles on the porch and the main roof damaged by the 
builders have not been completed. And neither have repairs to the soffit and gutters on the 
porch, and to the soffit and fascia on the front of the house. He said that the gutters had not 
been connected to their neighbours gutters correctly and were still leaking. And the gate to 
the garden had not been repaired to how it was before it was damaged by the builders. Mr D 
has provided photographs as evidence to support what hes said. And Im persuaded by 
what Ive seen and read that these issues are yet to be fully resolved. So, I think it would be 
fair and reasonable for QIC to rectify these matters as soon as possible.   
Alternative accommodation
The terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy says it will pay up to £100,000 for the reasonable 
and necessary costs of alternative accommodation. It also says it wont cover losses 
suffered more than 12 months after the date the property became unfit for living. Our 
investigator thought QIC should cover the costs of Mr Ds alternative accommodation until 
such time as the property is safe for him to return. And I think thats reasonable. The repairs 
to Mr Ds roof have taken significantly longer than would be usual and there were a number 
of repairs that were inadequate, as Ive highlighted above. His property is not ready to return 
to yet and I think it would be fair to ask QIC to continue to pay Mr Ds alternative 
accommodation costs until such time as the property is safe for him to return. 
Compensation
Mr D was always likely to suffer a degree of stress and inconvenience with a claim of this nature. The event itself would have been stressful enough without then having to make a 
claim and go through the process of finding alternative accommodation and getting his 
property repaired. So, there was always likely to have been a lot of disruption. But its clear 
that QICs handling of this claim has caused Mr D more distress and inconvenience than he 
should have expected. QIC offered £3,000 compensation for the issues Mr D had raised. But 
Mr D says he didnt accept that offer and he didnt receive it. Mr D also confirmed that he 
was still living in alternative accommodation that he, rather than QIC, was paying for. Ive 
already recommended that QIC should pay for Mr Ds alternative accommodation. But I think 
it should do more to recognise the impact on Mr D of the poor quality repairs that have 
delayed progress of this claim. Our investigator said QIC should pay Mr D £1,500 and, in all 
the circumstances, I think that amount would be a fair and reasonable way of resolving this 
complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that QIC Europe Ltd should do the 
following:
Repair the gate, the broken tiles, soffits, fascia and gutters on Mr Ds property;
Agree the scope of works for the internal repairs with Mr D and offer a fair and 
reasonable cash settlement;
Pay Mr Ds alternative accommodation costs until such time as his property is safe 
for him to return to;
pay Mr D £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays in repairing 
his property.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr Ds comments
Mr D said he was willing to accept my provisional decision but wanted to raise a few points. 
He said he hadnt accepted QICs settlement offer for the internal work because he didnt 
feel as though the scope of works for the internal damage included all the required repairs. 
He suggested that QIC liaise with his loss assessor to resolve those issues. 
Mr D also summarised why he wasnt happy with the building control inspector. He said they 
didnt do what they said they would do and didnt check that the issues theyd asked to be 
resolved before the roof could be signed off were completed. Mr D said he was going to 
complain to the local authoritys building control office as he still believes the roof doesnt 
meet construction requirements.
QICs comments
QIC accepted there were outstanding snagging works and were happy to offer a cash 
settlement for these works to be completed. It pointed out that it had also offered Mr D a 
cash settlement amount for the internal work, but Mr D hadnt accepted it.
QIC didnt agree with my provisional decision regarding the alternative accommodation. It 
said Mr Ds circumstances had changed and while his family still lived in the alternative 
accommodation, Mr D had returned to live in his property while work on the roof was being 
completed. It said Mr Ds policy allowed 12 months of alternative accommodation. It had paid 
Mr D beyond that, up to October 2021. And it had offered an additional payment to cover 
three months alternative accommodation along with its settlement. It thought this was 
reasonable as this would have allowed Mr D time to carry out the outstanding work. But Mr D 
had rejected the cash settlement as he didnt think the roof had been installed to an acceptable standard.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Mr D that QIC should liaise with his loss assessor to agree and finalise the 
scope of works for the repair of the internal damage. QIC are right to say its already offered 
a cash settlement to Mr D but that was some time ago and as there are some issues still in 
dispute, I think it would be fair and reasonable for both parties to review the original scope 
and agree a new one. QIC should then offer a fair and reasonable cash settlement once that 
scope has been agreed. 
Mr D raised a number of issues about the conduct of the building control officer but its not 
my role to comment on their actions. Mr D has said he will raise his concerns with the local 
authoritys building control office and that would be the correct way to pursue those 
concerns. As things stand, the local authority has signed off the roof and while I recognise 
that Mr D doesnt agree with how that was done, I think its fair for QIC to rely on the 
certificate from the local authority which shows the work was completed in compliance with 
building regulations.
Mr Ds policy says QIC will pay for any reasonable and necessary costs of alternative 
accommodation for the policy holder and the policy holders family. So, while Mr D might 
have chosen not to live at the alternative accommodation, his family are still there and cant 
return home until its safe to do so. And its still not safe for them to do that.
Ive carefully considered QICs comments about the alternative accommodation. But I think 
QIC need to take responsibility for much of the delay thats been caused, for the reasons Ive 
set out above. That said, I dont think it would be fair for QIC to continue to pay Mr Ds 
alternative accommodation costs indefinitely. QIC originally offered a three-month extension 
to the alternative accommodation to allow Mr D to complete the internal repairs. And I think 
thats a fair length of time to complete those works. So, I think it would be fair for QIC to pay 
the alternative accommodation costs for three further months from the date of this decision. 
Or until Mr D and his family are able to move back into the property, if that is any earlier. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that QIC Europe Ltd should do the 
following:
Repair (or agree a cash settlement so Mr D can repair) the gate, the broken tiles, 
soffits, fascia and gutters on Mr Ds property.
Agree the scope of works for the internal repairs with Mr D and offer a fair and 
reasonable cash settlement.
Pay Mr Ds alternative accommodation costs for a further three months from the date 
of this decision  or until Mr D and his family can safely return home, if that is any 
earlier.
pay Mr D £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays in repairing 
his property.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 Richard Walker
Ombudsman