DRN-3906375
The complaint
Miss G complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) decision to decline her claim for
water damage and avoid her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2022 Miss G contacted Aviva to report water damage in her home. Based on the
information she initially provided, a settlement payment of £4,000 was offered. Miss G
declined this offer as the quotes she obtained for the repairs cost more.
Aviva subsequently arranged for an inspection by a loss adjustor. The assessor concluded
there were signs of damage having been caused gradually, which occurred prior to inception
of the policy. The claim was declined in May 2022 based on this assessment. Aviva says the
property appeared unoccupied at the time of the inspection, which was confirmed by Miss G
in October 2022 when discussing her complaint over the phone.
Miss G says tenants were living in the property, but they left in December 2021. After they
left, she says work began to refurbish the property starting with the bathroom. The bathroom
fixtures had been taken out in preparation for this. Miss G says the property was occupied
but she had to move back in with her parents in March 2022 when the leak was discovered.
Miss G disputed Avivas decline decision. She says she chased for an update on several
occasions without receiving a substantive response.
When Aviva contacted Miss G in October 2022 to discuss her complaint it concluded the
property had been unoccupied when she took out the policy online. It says its underwriters
wouldnt have offered cover had it known this. Aviva explained it would cancel the policy
back to inception and refund the premiums.
Miss G didnt think this was fair and contacted our service. Our investigator upheld her
complaint. He says Aviva acted fairly when declining the claim based on its assessors view
of a gradual cause. He didnt think Miss G had shown that an insured event had occurred.
But he didnt think Aviva acted fairly when avoiding the policy back to inception. He says
Miss G had intended living at the property and so it should remove all records of the
cancellation.
Our investigator says Aviva provided a poor standard of service when responding to Miss
Gs appeal and should pay £150 to compensate her.
Miss G didnt accept this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2023 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Miss Gs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My intention is to uphold Miss Gs complaint in part. Im sorry to disappoint her as this isnt
the outcome she had hoped for. But I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
Its for the policyholder to show that they have suffered an insured loss (fire, theft etc.). If
they are able to do this then, generally speaking, the insurer should pay the claim. This is
unless it can reasonably rely on a policy exclusion not to.
In this case Aviva says that Miss G hasnt been able to show that the cause of the damage
she reported is covered by her policy. It says she hasnt shown that there was a leaking pipe
or otherwise demonstrated the cause of the damage.
Ive read the report from the inspection Aviva arranged towards the end of March 2022. This
says Miss Gs contractor had removed the shower tray, which revealed that the floor was
rotten. The report says the contractor thought a leak had originated with the waste pipe in
the bathroom. The loss adjustor refers to clear signs of failed sealant and grout issues with
the bathroom wall tiles. He says this issue wouldve been evident prior to the bathroom
works because of the extent of the damage throughout the property.
The loss adjustor says there are signs of rot in the hallway cupboard, and signs of dampness
in the kitchen with some blistering apparent on a wall. He also says there are clear signs of
rot to the joists, chipboard and plasterboard walls indicating the leak was ongoing for a
period of time.
Miss Gs policy terms, under the heading General Exclusions say:
1. Gradually occurring damage
 wear and tear (natural and predictable damage which happens overtime or due to normal
use or ageing) this includes, but is not limited to, gradual weathering, the effect of light;
deterioration or depreciation;  any other gradually occurring damage (except subsidence,
heave and landslip).
I havent seen evidence to support Miss Gs contractors view that a leaking waste pipe
caused the damage. Based on the loss adjustors report there are signs of a problem that
has been ongoing for a period of time. He highlights deteriorated grouting and sealant. I
havent seen photos of the deteriorated sealant. But the images taken of the grouting do
clearly show signs of deterioration. I understand it wasnt possible to see the condition of the
sealant in more detail around the shower tray, as this had already been removed by Miss
Gs contractor.
Based on this evidence I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to decline Miss Gs claim.
The cause hasnt been shown to be one that is covered under the policy terms. In addition,
the problem was identified in February 2022 shortly after the policy was incepted. The
indication is the damage was pre-existing at this time and that signs of the damage wouldve
been apparent in several areas of the property.
However, this is essentially a moot point. Aviva says no insurance cover wouldve been
provided had Miss G told it the property was unoccupied at the outset. Because of this it is
avoiding the policy (treating it as though it never existed) back to inception and refunding the
premiums. Ive thought about whether this is fair.
The relevant law here is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aviva thinks Miss G failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when
she completed her online application for its insurance cover. Specifically, that she confirmed
the property was occupied when it wasnt.
Ive looked at screen shots showing the customer journey Miss G followed. This includes the
question, is this house your main home?. The responses include, permanent main
residence, weekend only, weekday only, holiday home, and unoccupied. A subsequent
question asks if the property will be left empty for more than 30 consecutive days.
Miss G didnt select unoccupied. Aviva says this was the correct option as she wasnt living
in the property at the time. I note Miss G disputes this. She says she was living at the
property and so she had answered the questions correctly.
Ive listened to two call recordings provided by Aviva. These took place in October 2022
when its agent called Miss G to first discuss her complaint, and later to confirm it was
avoiding the policy because of the information she had given.
In the first call Miss G explains that the property was let out to tenants, but they left in
December 2021. She says she intended moving back in but was doing some refurbishment
work starting with the bathroom. Avivas agent asks Miss G, you hadnt moved back in.
Miss G responds that she didnt want to move straight back in, the property was being done
up, starting with the bathroom, and moving on from there.
During the second call, after Miss G is told about the avoidance decision, she says she had
to move back with her mum and dad when work began on the bathroom. But she maintains
that the property was occupied. Miss G also talks about having lived in the property with her
boyfriend at one point, but she doesnt say this was at the time the policy with Aviva was
agreed.
Ive looked at the definition of the word, unoccupied from Miss Gs policy terms. It says:
Not lived in by you or anyone who has your permission or doesnt contain enough furniture
for normal living purposes. Lived in means that normal living activities like bathing, cooking
and sleeping are regularly carried out in the home.
The terms also say Miss G should inform Aviva if she is leaving her home unoccupied for
more than the number of days shown in her schedule. Her policy schedule confirms that the
property cannot be unoccupied for more than 30 consecutive days.
Miss Gs policy was incepted on 12 January 2022. The loss claim was recorded at the end of
February. From the call recordings Miss G is clear that she didnt want to move in straight
after the tenants had left and that the refurbishment work started with the bathroom. This iswhen the damage was first noticed. This was over six weeks after the policy was put in
force. I think its clear from the call recordings that Miss G didnt intend moving in until after
this work had been completed. As works to the bathroom had only just begun at the end of
February, this shows Miss G wouldnt have been occupying the property for well in excess of
30 consecutive days after the policy started. In the call recording she makes it clear she
wasnt living in the property before this work began.
In her submissions to Aviva and our service Miss G argues that she was occupying the
property. She says utility bills had been returned to her name and the previous tenants had
vacated the property in December 2021. She says there was some food and utensils in the
cupboards, but she had removed her tv as it was expensive and didnt want to leave it in the
property after she moved back in with her parents once the damage was found. She also
says her clothes were removed from the property to avoid them smelling because of the
damp in the property.
Aviva points to its loss adjustors report that says there was no sign the property was
occupied during the inspection visit. It says there was limited furniture present in the
property, an empty fridge that was unplugged and no tv.
I note Miss Gs explanation that she had moved out of the property when the damage was
found. But this is at odds with the information she gave to Avivas agent when discussing the
matter in October 2022. I think the agent was clear when asking if Miss G had moved back
into the property after the tenants had moved out. The responses Miss G gave confirm that
she hadnt.
Aviva has provided underwriting information to show that it wouldnt have offered Miss G
a policy based on the correct information. So, Im satisfied that Miss Gs misrepresentation
was a qualifying one. Aviva says it will be refunding the premiums Miss G paid in full. This
fits with a careless misrepresentation having been made under the CIDRA rules. In the
circumstances described I think this is reasonable. I dont think Miss G deliberately or
recklessly provided inaccurate information. But I dont think she was occupying the property
when she applied for the policy. She may have intended to move in at some point, but its
clear she didnt meet the policy definition of occupying the property at the time cover was
first provided.
Ive looked at the actions Aviva can take in accordance with CIDRA. Aviva can refund the
premium paid where a misrepresentation is careless if no claim has been made against the
policy. It declined Miss Gs claim, so I think it acted fairly when confirming it would refund the
premiums.
Finally, Ive thought about the standard of service Miss G experienced when she appealed
Avivas initial decision to decline her claim. This decision was confirmed in May 2022. I can
see that she contacted Aviva on a number of occasions and was advised the matter had
been referred to its underwriting team. It hasnt been explained why Miss G didnt receive a
response to her appeal sooner. It appears the onus was on her to make contact to chase a
response. I dont think Aviva provided the service Miss G should reasonably expect in this
instance. This has been frustrating for her as well as causing worry and inconvenience. I
agree with our investigators findings that Aviva should pay £150 compensation to Miss G to
acknowledge this point.
In summary I dont think Aviva treated Miss G unfairly when relying on its policy terms to
decline her claim and avoid her policy back to inception with a refund of premiums. But I
think its handling of her later appeal was poor and it should pay Miss G £150 to recognise
this.I said I was intending to uphold this complaint in part and Aviva should:
pay Miss G £150 compensation for the frustration, worry and inconvenience it
caused.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Aviva responded to say Miss G raised a complaint about the decision to decline her claim. It 
says it identified the underwriting issue, which later resulted in the policy being avoided. 
Aviva says Miss G didnt make clear that any worry or inconvenience was to be reviewed as 
part of her complaint. 
Aviva says the investigation of the claim was with its special investigators. It says it takes 
time to complete a full review of the circumstances. It says Miss G had advised her property 
was on the market for sale. It doesnt think the time it took to investigate the matter caused 
material distress or inconvenience. Aviva also says the handling of Miss Gs later complaint 
appeal was handled within accepted timescales and she was kept updated. 
Miss G responded to say that she was happy with the outcome in my provisional decision. 
But she makes several points for me to consider. She says there were no signs of rot or 
leaks anywhere until the bathroom work started. Also, that there were no signs of damp in 
the hallway cupboard as there was Gyproc on the wall. Miss G says the damage only 
became apparent when the work had started and everything started getting pulled back. 
Miss G has provided an email from the letting company she used. She highlights that no 
signs of dampness were noticed during their inspections or by the tenants. Miss G says the 
blistering referred to by Aviva in the kitchen is incorrect. She says this is from when she 
removed a cupboard and painted over a wall that hadnt been plastered. 
Miss G has sent a number of photos to support her comments, including images of her 
shower, kitchen, flooring, cupboard and washing machine. In addition to a floor plan and the 
email from her letting agent.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Avivas view that it doesnt think Miss G has been caused worry or 
inconvenience as a result of its handling of the claim or complaint. Ive thought about 
whether its further comments warrant a change to my provisional findings. 
In my provisional decision I said that Aviva confirmed it was declining Miss Gs claim in May 
2022. She appealed its decision and was told the matter had been referred to Avivas 
underwriting team for consideration. Miss G wasnt kept informed of what was happening 
and had to initiate contact on several occasions. It was some months later before she was 
told the decline decision was to be maintained. Its also apparent from the submissions Miss 
G provided that she chased for progressed on a number of occasions prior to receiving the 
initial decline decision. I can see some of these emails werent responded to. 
In my provisional decision I said it wasnt fair that the onus was on Miss G to have to chase 
for updates on her claim and her appeal. I said the standard of service Aviva provided in this 
respect was below that Miss G should reasonably expect. Miss G was worried and caused 
inconvenience. This was made worse because of Avivas delay in handling her appeal and its lack of communication. I note its comments, but Im able to consider the impact any 
service failings in its claim handling have had on Miss G in my decision. In these 
circumstances I think its fair that Aviva pays £150 compensation to acknowledge these 
points. 
I note Miss Gs comments that there were no signs of dampness within her property. She 
says this is supported by the letting agents email, in which it says no dampness was noticed 
at its inspections or reported by the tenants. She also points to evidence of dampness 
highlighted by Aviva that she didnt think was related to the claim. And I acknowledge her 
point that the dampness in the hallway cupboard was obscured by the Gyproc that was in 
place.       
Ive thought carefully about Miss Gs further comments and looked at the photos she 
provided in support of her arguments. But I dont think this warrants a change to my 
provisional decision. The evidence indicates there was a problem with water ingress that had 
been ongoing for some time. There is evidence of deterioration to the grouting in the 
bathroom, which is where Avivas expert felt the issue originated. However, the cause of the 
water ingress couldnt be confirmed any further as the bathroom was stripped out before 
Aviva inspected the damage. 
I also pointed out that how the damage was caused was a moot point. This is because Miss 
Gs property was unoccupied at the time the policy was taken out. Had this been known 
Aviva has shown that it wouldnt have provided cover at all.
Having considered all of this Im not persuaded to change my decision. I dont think Aviva 
acted unfairly when relying on its policy terms to decline Miss Gs claim and avoid her policy. 
But it did treat her unfairly in the standard of service it provided so should pay her £150 
compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint in part. Aviva Insurance Services 
should: 
pay Miss G £150 compensation for the frustration, worry and inconvenience it 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman