DRN-4424189
The complaint
Mr Z has complained about the length of time it took Wakam to have his car repaired after it 
was damaged in an accident and he claimed under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Mr Z dealt with Wakams agent on his claim, but for the sake of ease Ive referred to Wakam 
throughout this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Im satisfied Wakam appointed its repair agent to arrange the repairs to Mr Zs 
vehicle. And that this means Wakam is responsible for any failings on the part of its 
agent or the repairer its agent appointed. 
While I appreciate there was a delay in obtaining a part or parts for Mr Zs vehicle, I 
think Wakams repairer or repair agent should have looked at other ways of sourcing 
the part or parts. And I think it is more likely than not that if it had done so it would 
have obtained the part or parts sooner and completed the repairs to Mr Zs vehicle by 
27 June 2022. This means I think Wakams agents unnecessarily delayed the repairs 
to Mr Zs vehicle. And he would not have had to hire a replacement vehicle to enable 
him to continue with his business if this hadnt happened.
I appreciate the part or parts were on back order and this may have meant Wakams 
repairer was liable for the cost of them. But this wasnt Mr Zs fault; and it was not fair 
for him to be without his vehicle purely because of  Wakams repairers commercial 
arrangements. 
I agree with our investigator that the delay on the repairs left Mr Z with no option 
other than to hire a replacement vehicle until the repairs to his vehicle were 
completed. So I think it is fair and reasonable for Wakam to reimburse what Mr Z 
paid to hire a replacement vehicle between 27 June and 4 November 2022 when he 
got his car back. 
Wakam will also need to pay interest on the amounts Mr Z paid for the hire vehicle at 
8% per annum simple from the date he paid them to the date Wakam reimburse 
them. This is to compensate him for being without these funds.
I also agree with our investigator that the delay with the repairs and Mr Zs having to 
keep chasing Wakam caused Mr Z unnecessary distress and inconvenience. And I 
think Wakam should pay him £250 to compensate him for this.  
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above Ive decided to uphold Mr Zs complaint and make Wakam do 
the following:
Reimburse the amounts Mr Z paid to hire a replacement vehicle between 27 June 
and 4 November 2022 inclusive, plus interest on each of these amounts at 8% per 
annum simple1 from the date Mr Z made the payments to the date Wakam 
reimburses them. 
Pay Mr Z £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Zs complaint about Wakam and order it to do what Ive 
set out above in the Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman
1 Wakam must tell Mr Z if it has made a deduction for income tax. And, if it has, how much 
its taken off. It must also provide a tax deduction certificate for Mr Z if asked to do so. This 
will allow Mr Z to reclaim the tax from His Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if 
appropriate.