DRN-4437052
The complaint
Mr E complains about the advice given by Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited (LASL) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable 
for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr E is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr E.
What happened
Mr E held benefits in the BSPS. In March 2016, Mr Es employer announced that it would be 
examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the employers 
DB pension scheme) from the company. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the 
Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide 
compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when their employer 
becomes insolvent. 
Mr E appears to have first been in contact with LASL to discuss his pension in November 
2016.
LASL completed a fact-find, on 15 November 2016, to gather information about Mr Es 
circumstances and objectives. It recorded, amongst other things, that at that time Mr E was 
53, married with three children, one of whom was still financially dependent. LASL said Mr E 
intended to leave his current job at age 55 and set up a self-employed property development 
business. It understood he already owned a couple of properties on a buy-to-let basis, in 
addition to his main residence. And it noted Mr E intended to use his tax-free cash (TFC) 
from his pension to help purchase another couple of properties, although also suggested in 
another part of its notes he would use the TFC for the nice things in life such as holidays 
and weekends away. LASL said Mr E intended to retire completely at age 60 and thought 
hed need an income of £1,500 per month in retirement. And it said he wanted flexibility to be 
able to vary his income and the option of leaving his pension as a lump sum in the event of 
his death.
On 21 November 2016, LASL recommended that Mr E transfer his BSPS benefits  which at 
the time had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £306,293.21  to a personal 
pension with a named pension provider. The recommendation letter explained LASL thought 
Mr E had a lowest medium attitude to risk or four on a scale of one to ten, with one being 
lowest risk and ten highest. And it thought the level of growth required to enable Mr E to 
obtain benefits at retirement equivalent to those the BSPS guaranteed, known as the critical 
yields, were unachievable. But LASL still recommended a transfer as this addressed his 
main concern about the status of the BSPS by giving him control over his pension and also 
gave him flexibility to draw TFC when he wanted, the potential to maximise TFC and 
provided alternative lump sum death benefits.
Mr E did not follow LASLs advice at that time and didnt proceed with a transfer.
The status of the BSPS continued to be reviewed. And in May 2017, an announcement was 
made that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. 
That announcement said that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size 
could be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Es employer would be set up  
the BSPS2.
Mr E obtained an updated transfer valuation from the scheme trustees on 28 June 2017. The 
CETV of his pension benefits at that point was £587,734.86. He also obtained an illustration 
of the pension he could potentially take under the scheme at that time if he retired 
immediately. This indicated Mr E could potentially take a full pension starting at £16,378.33 
per year or TFC of £77,597.16 and a reduced starting pension of £11,639.57.
On 11 August 2017 it was formally confirmed that the RAA was progressing and that it was 
expected to take effect around 11 September 2017. 
I understand Mr E got back in touch with LASL. He has said this was prompted by the 
increased CETV which led him to again question if a transfer was right for him. LASL has 
provided a contact note that was dated 22 August 2017 and a copy of its fact find with some 
additional information included. As well as now being 54, LASL noted Mr E said hed sold the 
buy-to-let properties that hed previously owned which had resulted in him now having 
£40,000 in savings. 
Mr E said he enjoyed his job and could envisage working to age 65. But LASL said he was 
still interested in having flexibility to retire early or set up a property business if he chose to. 
And it said he wanted to access the maximum TFC he could take, at age 55, and use this 
and any remaining savings to purchase a further property which he intended to rent out to 
boost his income and provide long term security of income when he retired. LASL said 
Mr Es attitude to risk was still lowest medium.
LASL issued another recommendation report, also dated 22 August 2017. In this it again 
recommended that Mr E transfer his BSPS benefits to the same personal pension plan with 
the same named provider that it had previously recommended. This noted that there had 
been recent announcements relating to the pension, that the BSPS2 was envisaged to be 
introduced and members would receive further details. But the report said, as details were 
unknown and Mr E was concerned that his pension might move to the PPF, LASL was 
providing advice. LASL said it recommended a transfer as this would give Mr E the flexibility 
to access TFC whilst being able to defer taking an income  which wasnt an option under 
his existing scheme  and also provided lump sum death benefits. It noted that the past 
performance of the recommended fund exceeded the critical yields that had been 
recalculated. 
I understand Mr E applied to transfer in line with LASLs recommendation.
On 25 August 2017, an update was issued by the BSPS about transfer values. This said that 
the trustees expected to be able to provide improved CETVs to members when the steps in 
the RAA were carried out  including a large lump sum payment into the scheme. The steps 
of the RAA were completed, and the BSPS separated from Mr Es employer, on 
11 September 2017. With an announcement confirming members would have to choose 
between joining the BSPS2 or remaining in the BSPS and moving to the PPF. I understand 
an updated transfer value for Mr Es pension was issued on 18 September 2017 with the 
CETV increasing to £606,900.13. LASL did not revisit its advice following this update, but I 
understand it was the increased CETV that was ultimately transferred.
Mr E withdrew the maximum possible TFC, £153,110.25 in April 2018, when he reached age 
55. I can also see that Mr E began drawing an income from his pension from April 2020. His representative has confirmed he began doing so and that he now only works part time, albeit 
for the same employer, because of a health condition brought on by his occupation.
Mr E complained to LASL in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. LASL didnt 
uphold the complaint. It said it thought the advice was suitable based on Mr Es objectives of 
wanting to access tax-free cash without drawing an income, to improve the death benefits of 
his pension and to take control of it given the uncertainty around the scheme. It also felt Mr E 
had been provided sufficient information to make an informed decision about transferring.
Mr E referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He didnt think Mr E was likely to 
improve on the benefits his DB scheme provided by transferring. And he didnt think Mr E 
needed to transfer to have flexibility to access TFC. He noted that the purpose recorded for 
accessing TFC was to purchase a property, the rental income from which would provide 
income security in retirement. But Mr E didnt have an income shortfall and envisaged 
continuing to work. And the income from the DB scheme was already guaranteed and 
secure, whereas the potential income from a rental property was not guaranteed. So, the 
Investigator didnt think this meant a transfer was in Mr Es best interests. Nor did he think 
the alternative death benefits a personal pension offered meant a transfer was suitable. He 
believed, if Mr E had been advised not to transfer, hed have likely joined the BSPS2. So, 
said LASL should compensate Mr E for any losses caused by the unsuitable advice and pay 
him £200 for the distress hed incurred.
Mr Es representative said they felt any redress should be calculated on the basis he 
wouldnt have drawn pension benefits under the DB scheme until age 65  which the 
Investigator had not confirmed. And they said they didnt think making an overall 15% 
notional deduction from the compensation amount to account for income tax was fair as this 
didnt account for ongoing charges that Mr E may incur.
Prior to receiving a response from LASL, our Investigator explained to the parties that the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had developed a BSPS-specific redress 
calculator. Although the calculator has been developed for the BSPS consumer redress 
scheme, it can still be used to carry out calculations in non-scheme cases, such as Mr Es 
complaint with the Financial Ombudsman Service. And our Investigator informed both Mr E 
and LASL that if an Ombudsmans decision was required and they upheld the complaint, 
they may require LASL to calculate any redress due using the FCAs BSPS-specific 
calculator.
LASL then responded to the complaint, via a representative, saying it disagreed with the 
Investigators opinion. It provided a detailed response but in summary said it felt the 
Investigator had taken the incorrect approach when considering the complaint and that their 
starting point in considering the complaint was flawed because the FCAs presumption of 
unsuitability was guidance only, not a rule. And the consideration should be whether the 
adviser had taken reasonable steps to ensure the advice was suitable. It also said the 
Investigator hadnt understood aspects of Mr Es circumstances or the reasons that LASL, 
and a skilled person that had reviewed the advice, felt it was suitable. It added that the 
skilled person had reviewed the advice, using the FCAs Defined Benefit Advice Assessment 
Tool (DBAAT), which it felt the Investigator had not fairly considered. And, notwithstanding 
that it accepted Mr E couldve achieved the income he required through the BSPS2 or PPF, 
LASL remained of the opinion that transferring was suitable based on Mr Es objectives and 
him being able to bear the risk of transferring.
However, LASL then later said, notwithstanding that it still thought the advice was suitable, it 
had carried out a loss calculation, using the assumed value of Mr Es pension as well as 
assumptions from the FCAs BSPS specific calculator. And it said that this indicated that Mr E had not incurred a loss. 
Mr E did not accept the calculation. His representatives said they thought LASL should be 
instructed to carry out a loss calculation as at October 2021, when he first made his 
complaint, rather than using the economic assumptions relevant now, as this may have 
resulted in compensation being payable.
Mr E added that the reason hed gone ahead with the transfer after the second 
recommendation from LASL was that, because of the increase in the CETV, he was 
concerned about missing out. And this was influenced by the information LASL had given 
him previously about the potential negative impact of not transferring and it saying a transfer 
was suitable, even when the CETV was a lot lower. He also said friends of his had raised 
complaints about similar advice and received significant compensation, so if the 
Ombudsman decided he wasnt due compensation he wanted an explanation why his 
complaint differed from theirs.
As agreement could not be reached the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
some information, particularly LASLs arguments in response to our Investigators findings, in 
considerably less detail than the parties have. If Ive not reflected something thats been said 
its not because I didnt see it or havent thought about it nor is this intended as a discourtesy 
to either party. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in deciding 
the complaint. This also means I dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my 
own answer, to every point raised unless I think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Although LASL carried out a redress calculation in an attempt to resolve matters it has said it 
still thinks the advice given was suitable. So, Ive considered this first.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of LASL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
LASL says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice 
was suitable for Mr E. It says that COBS 19.1.6G  which says that the starting assumption 
for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable (the presumption of unsuitability) is 
guidance. It says it is not a rule or requirement that it had to follow, and that the Investigator 
was wrong to consider this as a starting point. 
I agree that under COBS, LASL was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that its 
personal recommendation to Mr E was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1R). And I accept that 
COBS 19.1.6G is categorised as guidance. But I dont think the importance of this guidance 
can be overlooked. It is intended to reflect the FCAs view (which it maintained for a 
significant number of years before the advice here and is still part of its rules now) that 
retaining safeguarded benefits is in the best interests of most customers. And that a 
business should only consider recommending a transfer out of a DB scheme if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in the customers best interests. So, it is an 
important guiding principle for any firm giving advice. 
And in any event, the FCA also requires that an adviser acts in accordance with the best 
interests of its client under COBS 2.1.1R, which is a rule. And I think that this reinforces that 
advice to transfer out of a DB scheme should only be given if it is in the customers best 
interest to transfer.
Having considered the relevant rules and regulations, and all of the evidence available, for 
much the same reasons explained by our Investigator, Im not satisfied a transfer was in 
Mr Es best interests. Ill explain why.
LASL was required to instruct a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report by the 
regulator. This included the calculation of critical yields. LASL has suggested the 
Investigator placed too much weight on an analysis of the critical yield. But again, the 
regulator required LASL to calculate this and consider the cost of the guarantees 
being given up. So, I do think an analysis of the critical yield is relevant.
The TVAS report that LASL completed looked at the critical yields required to replace 
the benefits the BSPS and PPF would provide at age 65. But remaining in the BSPS 
as it was at the time wasnt going to be an option for Mr E. Yet there was no analysis 
of the benefits the BSPS2 would offer. The suitability report said that LASL 
considered that if transferring out of the BSPS was suitable for Mr E, then it would 
also be suitable advice to transfer and forego any benefits the BSPS2 would provide 
(given the benefits available wouldve been lower under that scheme). But I still think 
the benefits available to Mr E through the BSPS2 shouldve been analysed and 
explained to him  even if that meant delaying the advice. Because without this he 
couldnt understand exactly what he was giving up or make an informed decision. 
And Im satisfied waiting for additional information was an option, as the transfer 
valuation Mr E had received still had over a month before it expired at the time of the 
advice and there had been announcements, referred to in the suitability report, that 
indicated further information would be forthcoming shortly and that members would 
be given time to make a choice. And by not waiting the only message Mr E received was that his benefits under the BSPS2 would be less without any real context - which 
was likely to lead him to view these unfavourably.
Also, while the TVAS did provide information about what the PPF might provide from 
age 65, there was no indication of the benefits that the PPF mightve provided at age 
55. Or what the BSPS2 would provide at that time. Or what guaranteed benefits the 
CETV would enable Mr E to purchase at age 55 This was despite LASL suggesting 
that Mr E may look to access his benefits at that age. And, while it said he wanted to 
access his benefits in a different format than the DB scheme allowed, again I think it 
wouldve been appropriate to set out what hed have been entitled to under the PPF 
and the BSPS2 to allow him to make an informed decision.
Nevertheless, I have looked at the TVAS provided. This said that the critical yield to 
match the tax-free cash and reduced starting pension the BSPS wouldve offered at 
age 65 was 6.42%. And to match the benefits in the same format which the PPF 
wouldve provided the critical yield was 3.86%. Again, critical yields were not 
calculated in respect of what the BSPS2 would offer from age 65. But, based on what 
we now about the BSPS2, I think these were likely to be between those of the PPF 
and the BSPS. 
LASL referred in its recommendation to the past performance of the pension it was 
recommending and that this was greater than the critical yields. But as LASL will 
know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, the regulator 
required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme 
with those payable under a personal pension, using reasonable assumptions. And 
the discount rates give a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor. And so, while LASL was not 
obliged to use the discount rate, it would, in my view, be a reasonable assumption to 
consider. The discount rate at the time was 3.8% for ten years to retirement  
relevant for retiring at age 65.
The regulator also published lower, middle and upper standard projection rates  
which at the time of the advice were 2%, 5% and 8% respectively. And I consider the 
discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic rather 
than projecting historic returns forward.
And having considered all of this, and Mr Es lowest medium attitude to risk. I think 
there was limited scope for Mr E to improve on the benefits the PPF wouldve offered 
from age 65. And, if there was an extended period of poor performance or his 
investments suffered losses that could result in him being worse off in retirement. 
And I think he was always likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than the 
benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided.
Again there was no analysis for early retirement but critical yields for early retirement 
tend to be higher given benefits would have to be paid for longer and the investment 
horizon to retirement was shorter. So, I also think Mr E was likely to receive benefits 
of a lower overall value by transferring, if he retired early.
LASL said Mr E could bear the risk of transferring, with its cash flow models showing 
he could draw tax-free cash at age 55 and then take the annual income he expected to need from age 65 and that the pension would last beyond his life expectancy. But 
these models were based on achieving growth of 6.2% year on year. Which was in 
excess of the regulators middle projection rate, and I think unlikely to be realistically 
achievable for Mr E, given his attitude to risk. 
Given a pensions primary purpose is to provide the holder income in retirement, 
whether Mr E would be better off in retirement as a result of a transfer, in my view, 
was a relevant consideration. And I think the analysis that was undertaken at the 
time, which again didnt assess everything I think it should have, indicates Mr E was 
likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value by transferring. So, I dont think this 
supports that a transfer was in his best interests.
LASL says Mr E wanted access to tax-free cash at age 55 but didnt want to take an 
income from the pension at that time. It also says he wanted the flexibility to 
potentially retire early if he later chose to  although he envisaged working to age 65. 
And LASL said he intended to use the TFC to purchase a property to rent out  as 
this was something he had experience with.
The evidence Ive seen indicates there was nothing recorded at the time of the 
advice about the cost of the rental property Mr E was apparently interested in buying. 
So, the amount of TFC that he required wasnt specified. 
The BSPS2 and the PPF wouldve allowed Mr E to take benefits before age 65. And 
LASL acknowledged that the benefits from either were likely to be sufficient to meet 
Mr Es income needs. So, Mr E didnt need to transfer in order to retire early and 
begin drawing a regular pension, if he had later chosen to.
It is true that he couldnt have accessed TFC through the PPF or BSPS2 without then 
having to draw an income from his pension. But if he had taken his benefits through 
either the PPF or the BSPS2 and continued to work, hed have had a supplemental 
income so arguably wouldnt have had any need for a rental income.
LASL said that Mr E had experience of owning properties on a buy-to-let basis, he 
was interested in doing so again and the TFC that he couldve taken from the BSPS2 
or the PPF at age 55 was likely to be lower than what he was able to release from 
the personal pension. But again, how much TFC was actually required wasnt noted. 
LASLs role wasnt one of wish fulfilment or to put in place what Mr E mightve 
thought he wanted. It was to advise him on what was in his best interests. While Mr E 
has gone on to take TFC that doesnt mean the advice was suitable. And Mr E 
having previous buy-to-let experience doesnt mean, in my view, it was in his 
interests to give up his guaranteed pension to do this again.
By transferring Mr E was giving up a guaranteed escalating pension, where the 
scheme bore all the relevant risks. The transfer meant his pension fund was subject 
to investment risk  and was expected to be depleted by a quarter within a few 
months. There was no analysis of the rental income the property Mr E apparently 
intended to purchase would provide, that could be compared to the guarantees that 
were being given up. And rental income was in any event not guaranteed.
Mr Es previous experience also suggests he had knowledge of financing buy-to-let 
properties in a more conventional way  through borrowing  than by taking a 
significant amount of money out of what was his main retirement provision. But there 
was nothing to suggest borrowing was considered as an alternative. 
LASL said Mr E was willing to give up his guaranteed income and has suggested he wanted to do so. But Mr E had a lowest medium attitude to risk and these pension 
benefits made up the majority of his retirement provisions. He has told us he was 
influenced to transfer by the negative information about the scheme at the time and 
his fear of what could happen. I dont think this supports that he wanted to give up his 
guaranteed benefits but instead that he was concerned about how safeguarded his 
benefits actually were. He had thoughts on potential options if he did transfer  that 
involved generating a rental income which the fact find referred to as being to boost 
his income in retirement. But this seems to have been influenced by his fear that his 
income would need boosting. However, as LASL has acknowledged more recently 
the guaranteed benefits under the BSPS2 or PPF appeared likely to be sufficient to 
meet his needs in retirement. But I dont think enough was done at the time to explain 
that to Mr E. 
Overall, I dont think transferring for flexibility and to access TFC for the reasons that 
were discussed as part of the advice were in Mr Es best interests.
LASL says Mr E wanted the lump sum death benefits a personal pension offered, so 
a sum could be left to his wife or children in the event of his death. But while the 
CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum, the 
amount remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be different. It 
would be subject to market risks and fluctuations and would be reduced by any 
income or lump sums Mr E took during his lifetime  which he was intending to do 
shortly after transferring. And there was nothing recorded at the time to suggest Mr E 
wasnt in good health. So, there was no reason to believe he wouldnt be reliant on 
his pension to meet his own needs in retirement  which is a pensions primary 
purpose, not to provide a legacy to the holders estate. And the pension was 
therefore unlikely to have provided the legacy Mr E mightve thought. 
The DB scheme provided a spouses pension which wouldve been payable if Mr E 
predeceased his wife. While LASL has suggested Mr E didnt think this was 
particularly valuable, it was guaranteed and would escalate while in payment.
If Mr E genuinely wanted to leave a lump sum to his family, then life insurance would 
appear to have been a suitable alternative. This wouldnt have been dependent on 
investment returns or the amount left in a pension. LASL said this was discounted as 
it did not feel the associated costs offered any real value. But I dont agree. This 
wouldve enabled Mr E to meet his objective of leaving a lump sum  if this objective 
was genuine  without putting his guaranteed pension income at risk. Cover couldve 
been explored at a level that Mr E chose rather than simply what remained in his 
pension, which was unknown. And it couldve been considered on a whole of life or 
term assurance basis, the latter likely being cheaper to provide.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer meant it was 
in Mr Es best interests. And ultimately LASL should not have encouraged Mr E to 
prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal pension over 
his security in retirement.
LASL said Mr E had concerns about how his employer had operated the pension and 
didnt want his benefits to remain under its care. And it said he wanted to take control 
of his pension. And Mr E has said that he was worried about all of the 
announcements being made and was led to believe not transferring was risky.
I cant see though that Mr E had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage 
his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that having control over his pension 
was a genuine objective for Mr E  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
I dont doubt that Mr E was likely to have been upset by what had happened with his 
pension to that point. Or that he had negative feelings about his employer and 
mightve thought moving his pension away from it was appropriate. I think that would 
have been a very natural emotional response to what was happening. But again, 
LASLs role was to give impartial, objective advice. Mr Es employer and pension 
scheme were not one and the same. And Mr E intended to continue in his job and 
was paying into a new pension scheme with his employer. So, the relationship may 
not have irretrievably broken down as suggested.
Mr E may have held concerns about the prospect of his deferred benefits entering 
the PPF. But there had been a number of key announcements that all pointed toward 
the BSPS2 being established as an alternative by the time of the advice  which the 
suitability report referred to. The BSPS2 was expected to provide better benefits than 
the PPF and still provide Mr E the option to transfer at a later date. And the trustees 
of this scheme again, were not one and the same as his employer  which is a 
distinction I think LASL ought to have done more to make clear.
But in any event PPF still provided Mr E with a guaranteed income and the option of 
accessing his benefits early. Mr E was unlikely to improve on these benefits by 
transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as concerning as he mightve thought, and 
I dont think any concerns he held about this meant that transferring was in his best 
interests.
LASL has said that its advice has been reviewed by a skilled person, using the 
DBAAT tool developed by the FCA which the Investigator didnt consider. Ive already 
considered the suitability of the advice as a whole. And having looked at the 
assessment LASL has referenced, there are several answers that were recorded 
which I disagree with. 
The reviewer answered that there was sufficient evidence to demonstrate why 
maximising death benefits was in Mr Es interests. They also said the transfer 
analysis supported a recommendation to transfer. And they said Mr E wanted to 
retire early but couldnt meet his needs in the scheme. All of which, for the reasons 
Ive already explained, I question. I also note that the reviewer said yes to a question 
about whether Mr E would be reliant on the income from the pension, which 
suggested that the advice was potentially unsuitable. But they overrode that.
So, taking everything into account, while Ive had regard for the output of the DBAAT 
I dont think this demonstrates that the advice given to Mr E here was suitable for 
him.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Es best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr E would've gone ahead anyway, if LASL had 
advised him not to transfer. He has said, when he received the increased CETV, this 
prompted him to act as LASL had already previously suggested not doing so was potentially 
detrimental and that a transfer was right for him. And LASL had advised him to transfer even 
when the CETV was significantly lower. So, I can see why he mightve been compelled to 
seek further advice. I dont though think this meant his mind was made up. He still asked 
LASL for advice. And, while Im conscious he chose not to follow the advice he was given in 
November 2016, ultimately LASL advised him to transfer out of the BSPS. And I think Mr E 
relied on that advice. Im not persuaded that Mr E wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice by LASL, a professional adviser whose expertise he had sought out on more than 
one occasion, to remain in the DB scheme.
As a result, Im upholding this complaint as I think the advice Mr E received from LASL was 
unsuitable.
Where we think an error has been made the aim of any recommendation we make is to put 
the impacted party, as far as possible, in the position they would now be in. Mr E cant 
though re-join his DB scheme. The FCA developed and has set out a methodology for 
calculating redress where unsuitable advice has been given to transfer from a DB scheme 
(like the BSPS). And I think it is appropriate that LASL take steps to put this complaint right, 
in line with the method the regulator has set.
LASL has evidenced that it ran a redress calculation, which it says suggests Mr E has not 
suffered a loss. But I note that some of the information input during the calculation was 
assumed, including the current value of Mr Es pension and withdrawals. So, I think it is 
appropriate that another calculation be completed, with the relevant information obtained 
from the appropriate parties.  
Mr E has said that he has colleagues that received compensation. And if I dont think he is 
due redress hed like me to explain why. But I do think LASL needs to do something to put 
things right here  carry out a redress calculation. So, Im not saying that he is not due 
redress, rather Im saying that I think it is fair that any redress due be calculated in line with 
the regulators methodology.
To put it simply, the way these calculations work is to look at the expected cost of replacing 
the benefits the DB scheme wouldve provided  using assumptions which the FCA sets  
and compare that with the current value of the pension (including any benefits that have 
already been taken). If the cost of replacing the benefits that were given up is greater, then 
the redress would be the difference between the two. If the value of the current pension (and 
benefits drawn) is more than it would cost to replicate the benefits given up because of the 
advice, then the pension holder is in a better financial position and no redress is due. 
These calculations are based on the individual circumstances of each consumer. So, just 
because calculations return a loss for some people, that doesnt mean calculations which 
show no loss in someone elses specific circumstances are incorrect. The calculations also 
take into account economic and demographic assumptions at the time. And its worth noting 
the cost of purchasing an annuity has reduced, which means it would cost less to replace 
Mr Es BSPS benefits at retirement. 
As I mentioned, the FCA developed a BSPS-specific redress calculator. This was developed 
by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and 
PPF (including the impact of the following buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic 
assumptions which are updated regularly. This information cant be changed by firms. And I 
think it is appropriate that the calculation be carried out using this calculator.
Mr Es representative has said that they believe the calculation should be backdated to the 
point Mr E complained in 2021. But I dont agree. LASL was entitled to disagree with Mr Es 
complaint. And I think it is fair that any steps to put things right are carried out at the point 
that his complaint is decided.
While Mr E had a potential use for his TFC in mind, as Ive explained, I dont think accessing 
this for the reasons that were discussed was in his interests. At the time of the advice, Mr E 
also said he envisaged working until age 65. So, I don't think that it would've been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr E wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the 
scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, under the BSPS2 the spouses 
pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be 
calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (even if one was ultimately taken). The 
annual indexation of his pension when in payment was more advantageous under the 
BSPS2. So, I think, had he received suitable advice not to transfer, Mr E wouldve opted into 
the BSPS2 and the calculation should be on this basis.
I dont though agree with Mr Es representative that it should be assumed hed have taken 
benefits at age 65 from the BSPS2. The FCA explains in DISP App 4 that the starting 
assumption for a redress calculation should be that benefits would be taken at the normal 
retirement age of the DB scheme (which here was 65). It also explains what might make it 
reasonable to depart from that assumption. Taking tax-free cash from the new pension on its 
own, is said to be unlikely to be enough to depart from the starting assumption. But where a 
consumer has changed their working pattern at a similar time to taking regular benefits from 
the new pension, this would rebut the presumption. Mr Es representative has confirmed that 
he has begun working part time due to a health condition, he is unable to work full time and 
that he has begun drawing regular pension benefits to supplement his income. And Ive seen 
evidence which shows he began taking an income from the pension in April 2020. It is only 
fair that I have regard for what has happened. And so, in his specific circumstances, I think it 
is fair to assume hed have begun drawing benefits from his DB scheme pension around the 
same time as he took them from his personal pension.
Our Investigator recommended that LASL make a payment for the distress caused to Mr E. 
Mr E received advice from LASL in 2017. He first complained about that advice in late 2021, 
after speaking to his professional representative. I havent seen anything that suggests the 
advice caused him ongoing distress during that period as the first indication he potentially 
had any concerns about the advice seems to have been when he first discussed matters 
with his representative. Nor can I see hes been caused any significant inconvenience in that 
time. And indeed, his representative has brought his complaint for him, so the impact of 
having to make a complaint  which I wouldnt usually recommend compensation for anyway 
 has also been reduced. 
Nevertheless, I do accept Mr E may potentially have been worried to find that the advice 
might not have been suitable for him, particularly given the circumstances under which he 
first asked for this advice, when there was a lot of uncertainty regarding the pension scheme. 
I think finding out about this potential issue has likely caused him some concern. This 
wouldn't have occurred but for the advice that is the subject of this complaint. So, in the 
circumstances, I think the recommended award of £200 is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for LASL to put Mr E, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr E would have most 
likely remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted into the BSPS2 if suitable 
advice had been given. 
LASL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
LASL should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr E and his representative and the 
Financial Ombudsman Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what LASL based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, although Mr E has confirmed he still works part time, he began drawing pension 
benefits from April 2020. And I think compensation here should be based on him taking 
benefits at that point.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Es 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, LASL should:
calculate and offer Mr E redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr E before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr E receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr E accepts LASLs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr E for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Es end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr E as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, LASL may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Es likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
I've thought about Mr E's representative's point regarding this deduction. It believes this is 
unfair as it doesn't account for the charges that would've been deducted from the fund value 
over that time. While I appreciate the representative feels this may unfairly reduce the 
redress payable, I'm mindful that it is not possible to provide exact compensation in these 
circumstances, as the only way to achieve this would be to put Mr E back into the scheme as 
if the transfer out hadn't happened. So, overall, I remain of the view that the redress 
proposed fairly compensates Mr E for the impact of the unsuitable advice he received.
In addition, LASL should pay Mr E £200 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited to carry out the 
steps outlined in the putting things right section of this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman