DRN-3881909
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out proportionate affordability 
checks before it granted her loans. Mrs W says she kept taking out loans to repay previous 
borrowing. 
What happened
Mrs W was advanced a total of 14 home collected loans. However, Morses only has 
information about loans 12  14. Ive included some of the information weve received about 
these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentsweekly 
repayment
12 £400.00 06/12/2011 15/07/2015 78 £10.00
13 £300.00 20/12/2011 22/12/2015 50 £10.50
14 £400.00 14/02/2012 05/10/2016 78 £10.00
The weekly repayment column is the cost per week per loan so where loans overlapped the 
cost will be greater. For example, when loans 12 - 14 overlapped Mrs Ws commitment to 
Morses was £30.50 per week. 
Following Mrs Ws complaint Morses wrote to her to explain that it wasnt going to uphold it. 
Mrs W didnt agree and referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The adjudicator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She believed a reasonable 
decision was made by Morses to provide loans 12 and 13. She did say thought that by loan 
14, Morses ought to have verified Mrs Ws financial information. However, this loan couldnt 
be upheld because the adjudicator hadnt seen anything to showed what Morses may have 
seen had it made better checks. 
Mrs W didnt agree with the outcome, she explained she doesnt have her bank statements 
from the time because she had to change her account. Mrs W said  I was severely 
struggling yet they still gave out loans
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs W could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Mrs Ws income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs W. These factors include:
Mrs W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs W.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs W could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs W was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Ws complaint.
Based on Morses statement of account, Im confident in saying that Mrs W had 11 more 
loans. However, these cant be considered as part of this decision. All of these earlier loans 
were likely granted by another company who I refer to as Company A. 
Morses purchased the outstanding loan book of Company A in March 2014. This means, 
that any loans that Company A granted but hadnt yet been repaid were sold to Morses and 
it then took responsibility for collecting the payments and responsibility for the lending 
decisions that were made by Company A. 
In this case, its likely, that loans 1  11 were sold and repaid to Company A before 
March 2014, this means Morses isnt responsible for the sale of those loans and means 
Morses wouldnt have any information about them.  In addition, Mrs W hasnt been able to 
provide any information or evidence about loans 1  11. So, I cant say that Morses ought to 
be responsible for any further loans either. Therefore, in this decision, I can only consider the loans which are detailed in the loan table 
at the start of this decision because these, as far as we are aware are the ones Morses are 
responsible for.   
Loans 12 and 13
The adjudicator didnt uphold these loans. It is likely, that at the time these loans were 
approved Morses asked Mrs W for information about her income and expenditure, and this 
wouldve been used as part of the affordability assessment. 
However, Morses doesnt have details of the information Mrs W likely declared. This is most 
likely as a result of the time that has elapsed since the loans were approved. It is over 10 
years ago now, so its not unreasonable that this information is no longer available. 
In addition, Mrs W hasnt been able to provide any information about her financial position at 
the time. Given, neither party is able to provide anything to show what Mrs Ws income and 
expenditure was, I cant fairly make a finding that Morses was wrong to have approved these 
loans. 
I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint about these loans. 
Loans 14 
For this loan, the adjudicator thought Morses ought to have carried out further checks  but 
as she didnt have anything from Mrs W about her actual financial position at the time, she 
wasnt able to uphold the complaint about this loan. Ive thought about everything that has 
been said and I do think further checks needed to have been carried out before the loan was 
approved and Ive explained why below.
Again, for this loan Morses likely asked Mrs W for details of her income and expenditure, but 
for the same reasons as loans 12 and 13, likely due to the passage of time, Morses no 
longer has the information that Mrs W likely gave. So, I cant be sure, whether this 
information showed Morses Mrs W was in a position to afford her repayments. 
But Mrs W had taken out three loans in a little over three months, she hadnt repaid loans 12 
and 13, and her weekly commitment had more than tripled to £30.50. These factors ought to 
have prompted Morses to consider whether it knew enough about Mrs Ws actual financial 
position. 
I therefore think it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have carried out further checks to 
have verified the information Mrs W likely provided about her income and expenditure. This 
couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for evidence of her outgoings, or looking 
at bank statements and/or Mrs Ws full credit file or any other documentation Mrs W couldve 
provided.  
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loan, I have to be 
satisfied that had Morses carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it wouldve 
likely discovered that Mrs W couldnt afford the loan.
Mrs W has told us she cant obtain the bank statements, because the account she was using 
at the time is now closed. Unfortunately, without these statements, or any other 
documentation, Im not able to conclude that further checks wouldve likely shown Morses 
the loan was unaffordable. As this is the case, while proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was 
approved, I cant conclude Morses made an error by approving it. I therefore dont uphold 
the complaint about this loan. 
Therefore, I do not uphold the complaint about any of the loans that the 
Financial Ombudsman can consider. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman