DRN-2766278
The complaint
Mrs C complains that the vehicle she acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed 
by FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality and 
was misrepresented. She wants to be refunded the cost of repairs and interest charges.
What happened
Mrs C tells us that in August 2018 she acquired the vehicle through a dealer Ill refer to as 
R. She explains that in March 2019 the vehicle suffered a total breakdown. Mrs C says that 
as she required the vehicle for work  and due to delays with MotoNovos response  she 
later arranged to have the engine stripped down and the vehicle repaired at her local garage 
which Ill refer to as S. And that it had told her the vehicle hadnt been properly serviced 
and the issue went back to the point of supply to her. 
She says that MotoNovo then arranged for the old engine parts to be inspected by a 
business Ill refer to as A. And that As report also concluded that a lack of servicing had 
led to the breakdown. But it had said this wasnt due to anything present at the point of 
supply.
Mrs C said that when she acquired the vehicle, shed seen an advert in which R claimed the 
vehicle had been serviced and checked prior to supply. She says shes had the repairs done 
at a cost of over £4,500 and shes had to pay interest on the credit card she used to finance 
this.
MotoNovo told us that it had offered to pay for an inspection of the vehicle once it had been 
dismantled. It said the inspection by A had concluded that the breakdown was due to lack of 
maintenance. And not due to issues which would have been present at the point of supply.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 March 2021. I said that based on As 
findings there wasnt sufficient information to show that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. And Id not seen anything that indicated that thered been a 
misrepresentation. 
Since my provisional view MotoNovo has replied and its supplied a copy of the pre-delivery 
inspection report. This shows that the items which were checked revealed no faults. Ive not 
seen any reply from Mrs C.
I thank MotoNovo for its response. And the information which shows that the vehicle did 
receive a pre-delivery inspection check. Ive seen nothing that would prompt me to change 
my provisional decision. So its largely repeated in my final decision which is set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Cs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo supplied the vehicle so its responsible 
for complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
Mrs Cs vehicle experienced a complete breakdown in April 2019. At the time of the 
breakdown the vehicle had covered around 7,000 miles in the seven months or so since 
supply. Which is within the range of average use Id expect. I understand her concern and 
disappointment at this occurrence.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects of price, previous use and 
durability. Here the vehicle was around three years old at the time of supply and with 48,017 
miles recorded on the invoice. So it wouldnt be expected to match the quality of a new 
vehicle.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods fail to conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. After that it would be 
necessary for the consumer to show that any faults which meant the vehicle didnt conform 
to contract were present at the point of supply.
When the vehicle initially broke down Mrs C had it recovered to her local garage, S. Whilst 
Ive seen a list of parts that were replaced and the costs, I havent seen any separate report 
from S as to the cause of the breakdown or the time at which any contributing faults would 
have developed.
The vehicles old parts were then examined by an independent vehicle examiner, A.
As report stated that:
we found all of the engine components to be heavily contaminated with thick black solidified 
oil consistent with a lack of servicing and maintaining.
It concluded:
it is our opinion that engine failure has been caused due to prolonged use in a deteriorated 
state and is consistent with a lack of maintenance and regular service and do recommend 
that the vehicles service records to be reviewed.
We do not consider, on the balance of probability this would have been developing or 
present at the point of finance inception.
Its Mrs Cs belief that R misrepresented the vehicle and sold it to her knowing it hadnt been 
properly maintained. Shes referred me to a screen shot of what seems to be an undated 
image from Rs website. The heading is why use R?
The narrative then refers to several items including vehicles receiving a multi-point check 
and service.A misrepresentation is false statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter an 
agreement and suffer a loss as a result of the misrepresentation.
I understand the point Mrs C is making, but the nature of advertisements is such that 
consumers need to check precisely what is being stated.
Here the statements seem to be of a general nature rather than aimed towards this specific 
vehicle. And they lack detail. A multi-point check is imprecise in terms of what it includes  
however reasonable it might be to assume that certain features would be covered. And there 
are various levels of servicing which would involve different degrees of examination of the 
vehicle.
Im also not sure if the screen shot relates to the time before she acquired the vehicle or 
later. Although I note that Rs website currently displays similar claims.
Where information is incomplete or unclear - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive now been supplied with a copy of the pre-delivery inspection dated 9 August 2018. This 
shows an odometer reading of 48,018 miles. The report lists 102 separate items which were 
marked as checked and against each item there is a green symbol which indicates there 
were no issues identified. Included in the list of items checked are oil and coolant levels. 
Along with brake and power steering fluid.
Ive been told that a warranty claim wasnt successful due to a lack of servicing history 
complying with the manufacturers requirements. Mrs C has said that she was under the 
impression the vehicle came with a service history. Ive not seen any advertisement or 
statement relating to this specific vehicle which shows the vehicle was supplied with such a 
guarantee. Id have thought that if these were key selling points for Mrs C, she might have 
asked to see some documentation to show what maintenance the vehicle had received.
Mrs C has made the point that if there had been a multi-point check the oil levels would have 
been shown on the dipstick to be deficient. But as Ive explained above, the pre-delivery 
inspection indicated that the oil level was correct. It also didnt show any leaks which might 
lead to reduced levels.
But oil levels need regular monitoring. And Mrs C has said that she maintained the vehicle 
and checked the oil levels. So it might reasonably be expected that the checks she made 
wouldve revealed any deficiency. And presumably they didnt or Mrs C wouldve noticed. 
Ive nothing which shows that checks at the time of supply showed there was any problem 
with oil levels or the condition of the engine.
As it was, the vehicle covered around 7,000 miles without apparent issue until the 
unexpected failure. This tends to support the view that the issue gradually developed during 
the time Mrs C used the vehicle until it reached breaking point.
I empathise with Mrs C and regret the expense that shes incurred. But in the absence of 
information to show that the conclusion reached by A is incorrect, I dont find that theres 
sufficient information to show the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman