DRN-2685266
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with how Amtrust Europe Limited has dealt with a claim he made under his 
home emergency insurance policy. 
Mr G would like all of the costs associated with the incident covered. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
again here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr G has strong views about what has happened, and he has provided 
numerous submissions and case law to support his complaint. I want to assure him Ive read 
and considered what hes said carefully. 
However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points 
raised. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every 
single point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr G and by Amtrust, to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. While I will take into account the law, Im 
not bound by it in the same way a court is. 
Having considered everything, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator that the 
case should be upheld in part. I do so for the following reasons:
The primary purpose of a Home Emergency policy is to deal with the immediate 
emergency, put in place measures to prevent any further damage being caused and 
to leave a property safe, with main services connected. They do not as a general rule 
cover the damage caused by any such emergency. 
Mr G arranged for a contractor to visit his property to locate and fix the leaking pipe. 
The contractor was also tasked to put right the damage the leak caused which 
included fixing the ceiling, replacing lights, testing the electrical circuit and repainting 
walls that were water damaged. 
In this instance I would expect the policy to cover the cost of finding and fixing the 
leaking pipe and testing the electrical circuits. As this ensures the emergency is dealt 
with and the property is left in a safe condition. 
Mr G has said his property has suffered from vermin in the past. And, with individuals 
in the house having health difficulties it was a risk for the ceiling to be open. Mr G 
argues there remained a health a safety risk and as such the policy should cover the 
costs of repairing the ceiling and dealing with the water damaged walls. 
While I understand Mr Gs thought process here, I do not agree the costs should be 
covered. There wasnt a known infestation at the time and the policy doesnt cover 
the possibility of something happening. Having said that, I dont underestimate the 
worry the incident would have caused and why Mr G acted quickly to put right all of 
the damage.
Mr G has provided case law which he says supports his claim all of the costs he 
incurred should be covered. Ive considered this however I dont this this would result 
in a fair or reasonable outcome. As explained previously, these types of policies are 
designed to deal with the immediate emergency. They arent designed to put right 
any damage that is caused by that emergency. There are other insurance policies 
available which provide this coverage. 
The policy is clear that doesnt intend to cover costs of making permanent repairs, 
including redecoration or making good the fabric of the home. In my opinion, in 
respect of this case, I take this to mean the cost of repairing the ceiling, 
lights/electrical circuits and repainting the walls arent costs that are intended to be 
covered by the policy.
Amtrust agreed to cover the costs of the contractor opening the ceiling and repairing 
the pipe and the cost of testing the electrics - totalling £395. It also offered to pay 8% 
simple interest from the date Mr G paid the contractor. The investigator also 
recommended it cover the cost of the contractor attending to isolate the water supply 
and identify the location of the leak (£150) and pay VAT on those amounts. I think 
this is a fair and reasonable settlement. Amtrust has also agreed to settle the 
complaint on this basis. 
Amtrust also identified some poor service it provided to Mr G during the claims 
process and offered him £60 compensation. I think this reasonably reflects the 
amount of inconvenience he was caused, so I wont be looking to increase this.
For the reasons above, I uphold this case in part.
Putting things right
Amtrust should do the following:
Pay Mr G £545 plus VAT. It should also add interest at 8% simple per year on this amount 
from the date Mr G paid to the date of settlement.
If Amtrust considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest it should tell Mr G how much it has taken off. It should also give him a certificate 
if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint against Amtrust Europe Limited. I direct it 
to put matters right in the way I have set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Alison GoreOmbudsman