DRN-1783635
The complaint
Mr J complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC reduced his credit card limit without 
warning. 
What happened
In May 2019 Mr J made a payment of £1,000 to reduce the outstanding balance on his credit 
card. A short time later Tesco took the decision to reduce his credit limit to £350. After Tesco 
made the change it wrote to Mr J to notify him. 
Mr J says he was abroad on holiday when he found out his credit card limit had been 
reduced. Mr J explains that he had taken the credit card with him as an emergency source of 
funds and that he was travelling with his partner who was pregnant at the time. As a result, 
hes told us that the situation caused unnecessary distress as he was concerned about their 
options in case of an emergency. 
Mr J complained but Tesco didnt agree it had made a mistake. Tesco said it didnt have to 
provide a warning of its intention to reduce the credit limit. Mr J referred his complaint to our 
service and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator upheld the complaint and 
asked Tesco to pay Mr J £75. The investigator said that Tescos terms and conditions 
indicated it would try to contact a card holder before reducing the credit limit and noted it had 
failed to take that step. 
In its response to the investigator, Tesco said its account terms didnt say it would contact a 
customer before reducing the credit limit and asked to appeal. As a result, Mr Js complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I understand Mr Js concerns, I havent found anything to show Tesco made a 
mistake or treated him unfairly by reviewing his account and taking the decision to reduce 
his credit limit. Thats something its terms allow it to do. 
I think the key issue in this case is whether Tesco should have contacted Mr J before it took 
that step. Tesco says it didnt have to contact Mr J before reducing the credit limit. But 
Section 9 of the terms and conditions Tesco sent to us does say it will try to contact the card 
holder before reducing the credit limit. For clarity, Ive quoted the relevant part of Section 9: 
 
 
Actions we may take Stop or limit the use of your card or account including cancelling your card or not 
issuing a replacement or re-issue a card
Reduce your credit limit or advance limit
We will try to contact you before taking any of the steps above. This can be in writing or 
by telephone, email, in-app messaging or text message. If we cannot contact you we will 
take action and will write to tell you about this immediately afterwards. We will always tell 
you why we have put in place a restriction unless doing so is illegal or goes against 
reasonable security measures. 
The terms and conditions Tesco has provided indicate it will contact the card holder before 
taking the step of reducing a credit limit. So I can understand why Mr J was surprised to find 
out his credit limit had gone down whilst he was abroad. 
Our service looks at complaints individually and I've considered how the situation has 
impacted Mr J. He's told us that he was shocked to find out his credit limit had gone down 
without notice. He's also told us he took the credit card abroad while on holiday with his 
pregnant partner and the loss of the previously available funds caused him considerable 
distress. Mr J says that if he'd known beforehand he would have considered other options to 
ensure he had emergency funds available.
I'm satisfied Mr J reasonably thought Tesco would contact him before any reduction in the 
amount he could borrow came into effect. The situation was compounded here because Mr J 
was abroad and had taken his credit card in case of an emergency. I agree with the 
investigator that the situation did cause Mr J distress and that it's fair for Tesco to 
compensate him for that. 
Putting things right
The investigator recommended Tesco pay £75 for the distress caused to Mr J. I've 
considered what Mr J has said about the impact of this situation and I agree that £75 is fair 
in all the circumstances. As a result, I am upholding this complaint and directing Tesco to 
pay Mr J £75.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to pay  
Mr J £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman