DRN-4172298
The complaint
Mrs M complains that My Finance Club Limited (MFC) lent to her when it shouldnt have.
What happened
This complaint is about three payday loans MFC lent to Mrs M between August 2021 and 
March 2022. From the information provided, the details of the loans are as follows.
Loan 
numberStart date Loan amount 
(£)Repayment (£) End date
1 01/08/2021 210 260.10 31/08/2021
2 31/08/2021 400 448 15/09/2021
3 01/03/2022 200 243 28/03/2022
Mrs M complained about all the lending decisions but MFC didnt uphold her complaint and 
so she referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our adjudicators 
looked at the complaint and didnt recommend that any part of Mrs Ms complaint should be 
upheld. She thought MFCs checks went far enough, and those checks showed Mrs M could 
afford the loans.
Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MFC needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MFC should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint. 
Mrs M took a total of three loans from MFC, so I dont think the pattern of lending here 
demonstrated unsustainable lending.
Before MFC lent any of the loans, it has provided details of the monthly income and 
expenditure Mrs M declared, it has also provided evidence that it searched her credit file.
Mrs Ms declared income varied between £1,860 - £2,400 over the three loans. For her living 
costs including credit commitment Mrs M declared between £700 - £1,025, this included her 
declaring £0 costs for housing.  The results of the credit search showed Mrs M had a 
number of active accounts but there were no defaults or delinquent accounts recorded at the 
time of the loans. Those results did show Mrs M had a monthly mortgage repayment of £535 
and I can see MFC took this into account when assessing Mrs Ms affordability and so it lent 
on the basis that her living costs including credit commitments were between £1,203 - 
£1,694, which were figures higher than Mrs M declared in her applications. Looking at 
Mrs Ms income and expenditure, she could afford the repayments for each loan and was left 
with sufficient disposable income.
Im satisfied MFC carried out proportionate checks and reacted sufficiently to the information 
it saw from its checks. Those checks showed Mrs M was left with sufficient disposable 
income to afford each loan. So, I dont think it was wrong for MFC to lend Mrs M any of the 
loans at the time it did.
My final decision
For the reasons give above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman