DRN-1937277
Complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy on a credit card. Mr B has been subject to a bankruptcy order and The Insolvency 
Service has confirmed an interest in the complaint. As such, it is The Insolvency Service who 
has the right to bring the complaint. But to keep things simple, Ill refer to Mr B as the 
complainant throughout this decision. 
My findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Neither Lloyds nor Mr B know when or how this policy was sold. Lloyds says it was sold 
sometime between the card being taken out in 1985 and 2000. I also havent been given any 
paperwork from the time of sale. The lack of information and evidence available isnt 
unreasonable given how long ago the policy was likely sold. But I have looked at this case 
reviewing what is available from 1985 to 2000. 
Although Mr B hasnt been able to tell us how the policy was sold, he does recall it not being 
optional. But Lloyds says it has always made sure the optional nature of the PPI clear and 
only added to its customers accounts after asking them to agree to it.  
Where I have limited information about a sale, I have to decide what I think is more likely 
based on everything I have seen. While I have thought carefully about Mr Bs testimony, 
given the complete lack of any evidence available other than both Lloyds and Mr Bs 
testimony, Im afraid I dont have enough to say that its more likely the policy wasnt 
presented as optional to Mr B or that he didnt agree to take it. 
As explained above, given how long ago this policy was sold, there are limited documents 
available to help me decide this case. The policy documents from 1985 are no longer 
available  but I have looked at a range of the nearest available documents to help me 
decide what Mr Bs policy is likely to have said. 
As I dont know when or how this policy was sold, I dont know if Lloyds recommended the 
policy. But Lloyds has assessed this case as if it did recommend the policy as this holds it to 
a higher standard  so Ive done the same. This means Lloyds had to check that the PPI 
was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that 
it was. For example, he was likely eligible for the policy. Mr B was employed at the time he 
took the credit card, but later opened his own business in 1989. Based on these 
circumstances, he wouldnt have been affected by any of the likely exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. He also seems to have had a need for the cover.  Mr B told us he had no sick pay or savings available when he was employed. He also hasnt 
told us about any other means he had when he started his own business. And this policy 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if he was unable to work because of illness, injury or 
unemployment so I think he couldve found it useful. 
As I dont know what happened when the policy was sold, its possible the information Lloyds 
gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But I think its likely he chose 
to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have 
been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award 
any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask The Insolvency 
Service on behalf of Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
Asma Begum
Ombudsman