DRN-4261061
The complaint
Mr I has complained Starling Bank Limited added a marker against his name to the industry 
fraud database, CIFAS and closed his account.
What happened
Starling contacted Mr I in February 2023 to query a payment hed received into his account. 
This was for £2,031.82. Mr I confirmed he didnt know anything about this payment.
On further questioning Mr I confirmed his cousin occasionally used his account and had got 
this payment made into Mr Is account, and then payments made to other accounts had 
been his actions as well. 
As Starling knew the money into Mr Is account had been transferred as the result of a 
malicious scam, they decided to close his account and added a fraud-related marker against 
his record. They felt the evidence theyd seen indicated Mr I was aware of what had 
happened and been involved.
Mr I brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. He also presented evidence  texts 
from his cousin  confirming Mr I hadnt been aware of what was going on.
Our investigator felt the evidence showing payments immediately after the fraudulent money 
went into Mr Is account demonstrated his involvement. She wasnt going to ask Starling to 
do anything further.
Mr I continued to protest. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
It is clear what the requirements are prior to lodging a marker. Specifically:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted.
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently 
report the conduct of the subject to the police.
So Starling must be able to provide clear evidence that a financial crime was being 
committed and Mr I was involved. 
Ive seen the evidence about the funds paid into Mr Is account. These were the result of 
someone being scammed. Theres no doubt this money wasnt his.
However within five minutes of the money being received, money was withdrawn at a cash 
machine and payments were sent to people that Mr I had previously paid before. Money was 
also sent to his account held at another bank. Further cash withdrawals were then made.
Mr I told us the people who received over £750 and £400 were people he no longer knew. 
But I dont believe this to be the case. Payments were made to both individuals on 3 and 6 
February 2023 just days before the much larger payments were made. So it seems to me 
they were very much in contact at the time.
Mr I has said his cousin had access to his card and phone at this time but Im not convinced 
by this. These transactions werent happening in the middle of the night. Id be surprised if 
Mr I was willing to be without his phone for this period of time.
There are indications from Mr Is statement that he made payments to and from his cousin 
so I dont see why his cousin would need to use Mr Is account when he obviously had one 
of his own 
Ive seen Mr Is evidence that his cousin had access to his account and admitted this was all 
his fault. However none of this evidence is dated or something that couldnt be constructed 
after the event..
Overall Im satisfied that Starling had sufficient clear evidence to lodge the CIFAS marker 
and close Mr Is account.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Is complaint against Starling 
Bank Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman