DRN-3347175
The complaint
Mr W complains about TSB Bank plc and the way theyve managed his savings account.
What happened
Mr W held a savings account with TSB. On 30 January 2020, Mr W transferred £5,000 out of 
this account into his current account, also provided by TSB. But Mr W changed his mind on 
the intended purchase and so, he transferred £2,500 back into his savings account on the 
same day.
But this transaction was flagged as potentially fraudulent and blocked. So, Mr W called TSB 
to have the block removed, which TSB actioned. But Mr W was unhappy about this, so he 
raised a complaint.
Mr W didnt think TSB had acted fairly when blocking the transaction as it was a transfer 
between his two internal accounts. So, he wanted to be compensated for the cost of the call 
and upset hed been caused. Mr W also complained about the interest rate attached to the 
savings account as he thought the 0.4% he was receiving was less than the rate of 0.55% 
he agreed to in February 2019. Mr W says he was told this rate had been reduced in July 
2019 and he was unhappy hed not been given notice of this. So, he wanted TSB to pay him 
the total interest he believed shouldve been accrued at the 0.55% rate for that year. And he 
wanted to be compensated for the upset he was caused by the conduct of the complaint 
handler on the call. 
TSB responded and didnt agree. They thought theyd acted fairly when temporarily blocking 
Mr Ws transaction as they felt they had a duty to protect his accounts. And they explained 
there had been no reduction in interest rate and they were satisfied Mr Ws account accrued 
interest in line with 0.55% rate he expected. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything 
more. Mr W queried this response and TSB re-considered the complaint. But they 
maintained their position that they had acted fairly. Mr W remained unhappy with this 
response, so he referred his complaint to our service.
An investigator initially thought the complaint fell outside of our jurisdiction. But Mr W 
disputed this, and TSB consented for our service to consider Mr Ws complaint. So, the 
complaint was passed to another investigator, who upheld Mr Ws complaint.
They thought TSBs decision to block the transaction was fair, as they had a duty to ensure 
Mr Ws account was protected and they were satisfied the activity wasnt in keeping with his 
typical account usage. And they thought the interest had be charged correctly, in line with 
the 0.55% rate Mr W thought was attached to the account. But they thought TSB had been 
unprofessional on the call with Mr W, based on his testimony. So, they thought TSB should 
pay Mr W £75 to recognise this.
Mr W didnt agree, and he provided further information, including calculations, regarding the 
interest that had been charged. Our investigator considered this but issued another view 
explaining their outcome remained the same.
TSB then responding, disputing the outcome our investigator reached. They provided a call 
recording of the conversation Mr W had referred to. And they thought this showed theyd 
acted fairly on this call. Our investigator listened to the call and agreed. So, they issued a 
further view explaining, based on the evidence theyd now been provided, they didnt think 
they could say TSB had acted unfairly. And so, they didnt think they needed to do anything 
more.
Mr W didnt agree. He was unhappy with the investigators decision to change their mind and 
withdraw the £75 payment they had recommended. He referred to other calls he thought 
TSB had handled unreasonably. And he also disputed our investigators comments on why 
the interest payment hed received was less than he felt he shouldve received. As Mr W 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr W. I think its clear Mr W 
feels strongly about the service TSB have provided to him. From the comments and 
information Mr W has provided, its clear Mr W believes TSB have failed to pay him the 
interest rate he agreed to. So, I can understand why Mr W thinks TSB should pay him the 
interest he feels hes owed. And I dont think its in dispute that Mr has taken a significant 
amount of time and effort out of his day to day life to correspond with TSB about this. So, I 
can understand why Mr W believes TSB should compensate him for this.
But for me to say TSB should compensate Mr W, or cover any financial losses, Id first need 
to be satisfied they had done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied Mr Ws account 
did accrue a lower rate of interest than he expected and that he wasnt made aware of this. 
Or, Id need to be satisfied TSBs decision to block his transaction was unfair and without 
good reason. And in addition to these, Id need to be satisfied that the service Mr W received 
in calls to TSB was unprofessional. And unfortunately, in this situation I dont think thats the 
case.
Before I explain how Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. I recognise Mr W has commented on TSBs 
complaint process and the service he was provided during this. But complaint handling isnt 
a regulated activity and so, it isnt something Ive been able to consider or comment on as it 
falls outside of our jurisdiction. And Im aware in response to our investigators most recent 
view, Mr W has referred to calls that were held as part of this process. So, these wont be 
considered or impact the outcome Ive reached on this occasion.
Ive first thought about the blocked transaction, as this is the event that triggers Mr Ws 
further issues. Mr W doesnt think this was fair, as it was an internal transaction between two 
accounts that he owns. But I dont agree.
Even though both accounts were owned by Mr W, I dont think this means the transaction 
shouldve been exempt from TSBs security checks. This is because customers can be pressured, or manipulated, into making transfers from their own accounts which arent 
always able to be spotted by transactional data alone.
What I can see if Mr W withdraw £5,000 from his savings account and then transfers £2,500 
back into this account on the same day. Having looked at Mr Ws savings account 
statements, I think a withdrawal and deposit of these values, in such a short space of time, 
was unusual compared to how he usually managed that account. So, I dont think I can say 
TSB acted unfairly, or without good reason, when flagging this transaction to ensure it was 
genuine and Mr W own decision to do so. TSB have a duty to protect their customers 
accounts from fraudulent activity and I think they were acting in Mr Ws best interests, in 
good faith, on this occasion. So, I dont think they need to do anything more for this aspect of 
the complaint.
Ive then turned to the interest rate applied to Mr Ws savings account. Mr W believes the 
interest rate was reduced from 0.55% to 0.4% in July 2019, based on information he was 
told and interest rate that was showing on his online banking when he logged into the 
account on 30 January 2020.
The screenshot Mr W has provided me does show an interest rate of 0.4% on his online 
banking. And I can see this differs to the interest rate shown on his annual statement. So, I 
can understand why this would cause Mr W some confusion and I think he was justified in 
querying this with TSB.
While I cant be sure of exactly when and who told Mr W that the rate changed in July 2019, I 
dont dispute Mr W was told this information. So again, I can understand why Mr W feels so 
strongly about this.
But TSB have provided me with the interest rate information for Mr Ws account. And this 
shows each time the interest rate was changed or amended. And it doesnt show that any 
change was applied in July 2019. Instead, it shows changes on 4 February 2019, when the 
rate was amended to 0.55% and then 30 January 2020, when Mr W selected a new bonus 
rate of 0.46%.
Ive also seen both Mr W and TSBs interest rate calculations for the year 2019-20. And both 
calculations are based on a rate of 0.55% across the year. And both calculations predict the 
account should accrue just over £63 worth of interest based on this rate. So, Im satisfied the 
account was accruing interest at a rate of 0.55% and because of this, I dont think there was 
a change applied in July 2019. So, I wouldnt expect to see TSB making Mr W aware of this 
beforehand, as I think its reasonable for me to assume this never occurred.
I understand this doesnt explain the conflicting information Mr W was provided both online 
and in calls he held. But crucially, I dont think TSB have made an error with the interest rate 
thats being charged.
But I do recognise Mr W was paid £56.93 worth of interest for this year, which was an 
underpayment of just over £6. And I can appreciate why Mr W thinks this shows hes been 
left at a financial loss. But having considered all of the information available, I dont think 
thats the case. In the following financial year, 2020-21, I can see Mr Ws interest on the 
account was calculated at £60.76. But instead, he was paid £67.10, which is just over £6 
higher than the amount he shouldve received. And TSB have explained this is because in 
the year 19-20, Mr W renewed his bonus at a lower rate before the original offer of 0.55% 
was due to elapse. And the system notes show the bonus rate was renewed on 30 January 
2020 when the old rate was due to run until 4 February 2020. So, TSB have explained this 
five-day period was accounted for in the next year, 2020-21. While I cant explain exactly why TSB processed the interest in this way, I am satisfied that 
over the course of the two years, Mr W received the correct amount of interest on his 
account, based on the interest rates he agreed to at the time. I think he interest Mr W says 
he shouldve been paid in 2019-20 was paid in the year 2020-21 and so, I cant say Mr W 
has incurred a financial loss. Because of this, I dont think TSB need to do anything more in 
relation to this aspect of the complaint.
Finally, Ive then thought about the call between Mr W and TSB in January 2020. Im able to 
consider this call as Mr W initially made it to discuss the block on his account and so, I dont 
think it was made solely in relation to TSBs complaint process. Mr W has said TSB were 
unprofessional and that there was laughing in the background which he believes was about 
him.
But Ive listened to this call and I dont agree. I think TSB acted politely and professionally, 
as I would expect them to do. And although there is some background noise, I dont think 
this means TSB acted unfairly as I think this its reasonable to expect this when a customer 
calls a call centre, where several conversations will be ongoing in close proximity at the 
same time. So, while I dont dispute Mr Ws testimony and the way he recollects the call and 
how he felt at the time, I dont think Im able to say TSB acted unfairly. And so, I dont think 
TSB need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr W was hoping for. But I hope it goes some way to 
providing Mr W with some closure to his complaint. I want to reassure Mr W all of the 
information hes provided, and comments hes made, have been considered when reaching 
this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman