DRN-1817116
The complaint
Miss O complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made on 
her motor insurance policy. She wants pictures of the damage to the other drivers car and a 
breakdown of the repair costs. She also wants evidence that the other driver was insured. 
Miss O is represented in this matter by her mother, Mrs O.
What happened
Miss O was involved in an accident when she hit another drivers car. The other driver made 
a claim and Miss O was unhappy that Admiral settled the claim without contacting her. She 
thought the other driver was uninsured. And she was unhappy that her renewal premium 
increased significantly due to the claim and she wasnt able to pay the costs herself and so 
retain her No Claims Discount (NCD). Admiral agreed that it had given incorrect information 
about the claim costs and it offered Miss O £100 compensation for this. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
had kept Miss O reasonably up to date with the claim. He thought it was obliged to settle the 
claim with the cars registered keeper, no matter if the driver at the time was insured or not. 
And, from the information available, he couldnt say that the renewal premium was unfair. 
Mrs O replied that she thought the other driver being uninsured should have a bearing on the 
outcome of Admirals liability decision. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss O feels frustrated with Admirals handling of the claim. She said 
there had been minimal damage to the other drivers car and the driver had said she was at 
fault. But Admiral held Miss O liable and settled the other drivers claim.
It isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the accident. This is the role of the 
courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate how the insurer 
made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy?
Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Miss O to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Miss O has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of a claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
I can see that Admiral had to consider the two versions of events, which were the same. It 
thought the claimed for damage was consistent with the circumstances. So it held Miss O 
liable and settled the claim. I think this was fair and reasonable as it was in keeping with the 
policy terms and conditions.
Mrs O thought that the other driver being uninsured would have a bearing on this decision. 
But I dont agree. Admirals responsibility is to the cars owner. It must financially indemnify 
the cars registered keeper in the case of a valid claim. The other driver may have been 
uninsured and so not be driving, but this doesnt change the fact that she was driving, and 
Miss O damaged the car. So Admiral was obliged to settle the claim. 
Miss O thought Admiral should have kept her better informed. But I think it had told Miss O 
that it would have to deal with the claim. I think it kept her reasonably informed on the claims 
progress. 
Miss O said she wanted to reimburse Admirals outlay and so retain her years NCD. Admiral 
agreed she could do this, but it gave her an incorrect amount for its outlay. Miss O took out 
cover elsewhere on the basis of having the years NCD. Admiral then told her that the repair 
costs were over £1,000 and there were also £273 hire costs in the claim. Admiral agreed 
that it had given Miss O incorrect information and it paid her £100 compensation for this. I 
think thats fair and reasonable. 
I think that if Miss O still wants to reimburse Admiral for its outlay, she can do this and so 
retain her years NCD. But I think Admiral should first confirm its outlay to her. I cant hold 
Admiral responsible for the cost of Miss Os cover with another insurer.
Miss O was also unhappy with Admirals renewal quote. Admiral has now provided us with 
its underwriting evidence. I can see that the renewal quote was correctly calculated taking 
into account Miss Os two claims, one fault and one non fault, and her change of vehicle. I 
cant say that Miss O has been treated any differently to any other of Admirals consumers. 
So I cant say this was unfair or unreasonable. 
Miss O wanted photographs of the damage to the other drivers car. I can see that she asked 
Admiral for these some time ago. Our investigator also asked Admiral to provide these. I can 
understand that the present situation may cause delay in Admirals response. But I think it 
should provide these to Miss O.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman