DRN-3223849
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC has not agreed to extend the term of his 
mortgage. He is also unhappy as he says he was led to believe that this would be possible. 
What happened
Mr H has an interest only mortgage with Barclays. The mortgage term was due to expire in 
December 2020. 
Barclays sent Mr H several reminders over the years that the mortgage was on an interest 
only basis and that he needed a way to repay the balance at the end of the term. Barclays 
contact notes indicate that after receiving reminders in 2014, 2016 and 2018, Mr H told 
Barclays that he had a repayment vehicle in place.
In February 2020, Mr H contacted Barclays and said his repayment vehicle was no longer 
going to be available to repay the borrowing. So, he wanted to discuss options. Barclays 
didnt think it was affordable for Mr H to convert the mortgage to a repayment basis, based 
on his circumstances. And it didnt think there was any other option it could offer, so 
suggested he look at other funding options.
Mr H contacted Barclays again in October 2020, again to discuss options as he wasnt going 
to be in a position to repay the borrowing at the end of the term. He says he was interested 
in extending his mortgage term, either until his 70th birthday or for his lifetime, and that the 
person he initially spoke to indicated this was something Barclays could look to do.
Barclays later declined to extend the mortgage term as this didnt meet its lending criteria.
Mr H complained to Barclays. He was unhappy that it would not agree to the extension. And 
he was also unhappy as he said he had been led to believe it would, by Barclays staff. He 
wanted Barclays to honour what its staff had said would be possible.
Barclays did not think it had made an error by declining the request to extend the term. It did 
though acknowledge that Mr H mayve been provided misleading information. So, to address 
the upset caused by this, it offered £50, and said this would be paid directly to Mr Hs 
account.
Mr H asked our service to investigate his complaint as he didnt think this was fair. One of 
our Investigators looked into matters. He didnt think that Barclays decision to decline the 
requested extension was unfair. And he felt that the £50 offered by Barclays for the poor 
service provided was reasonable.
Mr H did not agree. He said Barclays staff had said it would be able to extend the term and 
Barclays had acknowledged in its response to his complaint that he had been misled. So, to 
put things right, he thought it should honour what its staff had said it would do.
As Mr H did not agree with our Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has said that it declined to extend the term of Mr Hs mortgage to his 70th birthday 
because it didnt think this was affordable or appropriate.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) previously carried out a Mortgage Market Review 
(MMR). This led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential 
mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter 
lending assessments  including around affordability and repayment strategies for interest 
only mortgages  aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more 
responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old rules but not 
under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this which allow some of these 
new tests, particularly around affordability assessments, to be set aside in certain 
circumstances.
The circumstances where a lender can potentially set these criteria aside are when the 
mortgage was taken out before 26 April 2014, there hasnt been any further borrowing since 
that date, the requested change doesnt include any further borrowing (besides product fees) 
and the change being requested to the mortgage was in the customers best interests.
Its important to note, though, that these rules dont oblige lenders to make changes to 
mortgages or agree to lend. They merely say that changes dont have to be refused  if the 
criteria for setting aside the more stringent tests are met  on grounds of affordability. And 
whether the mortgage repayments were affordable, can still play a part in whether the 
change is in the borrowers best interests.
Mr Hs mortgage was taken out before 26 April 2014. From the information Ive seen he 
doesnt appear to have borrowed any additional money since that date. And he wasnt 
looking to borrow any additional money here. So, if extending the term to his 70th birthday 
was in his best interests, I think Barclays couldve set aside its assessment of affordability.
But having thought about matters, I dont think extending the term like this was in Mr Hs best 
interests. Extending the term wouldve brought with it significant additional cost  monthly 
contractual repayments for the length of the extended term. And Mr H appears to have no 
set plan in place to repay the capital sum borrowed  even if the term were extended. He 
has indicated his intended means of doing this, an investment, has decreased significantly in 
value. And he doesnt have any replacement financing in place. So, there is no guarantee he 
would be able to repay the mortgage if the term was extended.
So, it appears extending the term in this way wouldnt have resulted in a solution to the 
underlying issue  that the balance needs to be repaid. It wouldve just delayed the matter. 
And there is nothing to suggest Mr Hs financial circumstances wouldve improved in that 
time. And all the while he wouldve incurred the additional cost of the monthly interest 
repayments. So, with that in mind, I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly by declining his 
request to extend the mortgage term.
Mr H has also mentioned extending the term indefinitely, for the remainder of his lifetime. But 
Barclays has provided evidence that this isnt something it would usually consider. And the 
contact notes also indicate Mr H told Barclays he had discussed this with other providers but wouldve preferred for his mortgage to remain with Barclays. In the circumstances, I dont 
think Barclays needed to offer something that it usually wouldnt. And so, I dont think it was 
wrong to decline to extend the term on this basis either.
Mr H has said that Barclays staff indicated that a term extension would be possible. And in 
Barclays response to the complaint it accepted that Mr H mayve been misled. So as an 
error was made, Ive thought about what the fair way to address this is.
Mr H has indicated he thinks Barclays should be required to honour what its member of staff 
said  that an extension could be given. But I dont agree this would be fair. Although a 
member of Barclays staff has provided incorrect information, I dont think it would be fair to 
require Barclays to do something it wouldnt otherwise have done  and make the incorrect 
statement true. 
I dont doubt that it was upsetting for Mr H to find out Barclays couldnt offer a term 
extension, after initially thinking that it could. And I think the disappointment of finding this 
out couldve been avoided. Im conscious though that the person Mr H initially spoke to was 
not a mortgage adviser. And it does seem, based on the contact notes Ive seen, to have 
been explained to Mr H that he would need to speak to an adviser, in a specialist department 
before an extension could be formally agreed. And that conversation with a mortgage 
adviser seems to have taken place within ten days of the incorrect information having been 
provided  at which point it was explained that Barclays could not agree to a term extension. 
So, the correct information was provided to Mr H promptly.
Taking all of this into account, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, I 
think the £50 Barclays offered for the upset caused by this, which I understand it has already 
paid, is fair and reasonable.
Mr Hs mortgage term has now expired. And as such, based on the initial agreement, I dont 
think it is unreasonable for Barclays to ask for the balance to be repaid. Id expect Barclays 
though to think about what it could potentially do to assist Mr H while he looks into ways to 
repay the balance. And Id remind it of its underlying responsibility to treat customers fairly 
and to take this into account when deciding its next steps.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman