DRN-2535924
The complaint
Mr J has complained about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) offered to settle a claim under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Js hob was damaged, so he contacted UKI to make an insurance claim. UKI accepted 
the claim and said it would replace the hob through its supplier. Mr J didnt want UKI to use 
the company that would supply the hob so, after some discussion, he asked for the claim to 
be settled for the amount that it would cost him to buy the hob and fit it himself. UKI said it 
would only pay the cost to UKI of providing the hob and the cost of fitting it.
When Mr J complained, UKI replied and said its nominated company could provide the hob 
or it would pay a cash settlement for the amount it would have cost it to provide the hob, plus 
the cost of fitting.
Mr J complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that 
UKI had acted reasonably by offering either to supply the hob or to pay a cash settlement for 
the amount it would have cost it to supply it.
As Mr J did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint Im looking at is whether it was reasonable for UKI to offer to settle the claim 
in the way that it did up until UKI issued its final response letter in May 2020.
Ive read the policy terms and conditions and these say: 
For any item of contents that is lost or damaged we will choose whether to:
 replace or repair the item or part
 pay the cost of replacing or repairing the item or part, up to the amount it would have cost 
us to replace or repair using our own suppliers, or
 make a cash payment.
We wont pay more than the amount it would have cost us to replace or repair using our own 
suppliers.
If appropriate parts or replacement items are not available, we will pay the full cost of the 
item, provided the sum insured is adequate.
UKI offered to replace the damaged hob through a company that it used to settle claims. 
However, Mr J didnt want the hob to be provided by that company as he said there would be 
a conflict of interest due to his employment. UKI looked into whether there was a conflict of 
interest and was satisfied that there wasnt. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
UKI explained to Mr J that the company would supply the hob, but wouldnt fit it.  Mr J said 
that he wanted UKI to provide a contractor to fit the hob, but UKI said that it didnt have its 
own contractors and that Mr J could use a contractor of his choice. Mr J wasnt happy about 
this. There were a number of discussions between Mr J and UKI, including Mr J getting his 
own quote for the supply and fitting of the hob. UKI said it would either supply the hob or pay 
the amount it would have cost it to do so, but Mr J said he wanted to be paid the amount it 
would cost him to buy the hob himself. I think the options that UKI offered Mr J were 
reasonable in the circumstances and in line with the policy terms and conditions. I think UKI 
tried to address Mr Js concerns, but that there was no requirement for UKI to pay an 
increased amount because Mr J didnt want the hob to come from that particular supplier.
Ive looked at the amount that UKI offered to settle the claim. Im satisfied that this was the 
amount it would have cost UKI to supply the hob and that it was willing to pay Mr Js costs 
for having it fitted, minus the excess. Although Im aware that this was less than it would 
have cost Mr J to buy and fit the hob, I think UKIs offer was reasonable in the circumstances 
and that it explained its position to him.
Ive also looked at how long it took UKI to deal with this part of the claim. I can see that it 
took about a month from when Mr J logged his claim for the damage to when UKI issued its 
response to his complaint. I can see that between those two dates, UKI explained to Mr J 
what it needed to progress the claim and followed up on Mr J concerns both by contacting the contractor to understand the position and by discussing it with Mr J. I havent seen 
anything that suggests to me that UKI didnt deal with the claim, or Mr Js concerns, in a 
timely manner.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require UKI to do 
anything further.
Im aware that circumstances have moved on and Mr J has now accepted a cash settlement 
from UKI to settle the claim and that he is unhappy about how long it took UKI to resolve the 
claim overall. However, that isnt part of this particular complaint. Mr J would need to 
complain to UKI in the first instance to allow it the opportunity to consider this.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman