DRN-2560280
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc unfairly declined a claim he made on his 
motor warranty. Reference to Pinnacle includes its agents
What happened
Mr M bought a used vehicle, and at the same time took out an extended warranty with 
Pinnacle.
Unfortunately, Mr Ms car broke down. He took his car to be fixed and hoped the damage 
would be covered by the warranty he held with Pinnacle.
Pinnacle declined Mr Ms claim. It said the cause of the breakdown was a failure of the 
clutch. And it said the clutch had failed due to wear and tear. It said Mr Ms policy didnt 
provide cover for damage caused by wear and tear within the first 90 days of cover.
Mr M disagreed and complained to Pinnacle. He said the repairing garage said the problem 
was with the gearbox, and that the gearbox itself didnt fail due to wear and tear. He thinks 
because of this, its unfair that Pinnacle wont pay his claim.
Pinnacle didnt change its decision, so Mr M brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought 
the independent engineers report showed the cause of the damage was wear and tear. She 
thought it was clear that Mr Ms policy excluded damage caused by wear and tear within the 
first 90 days of the policy. And as Mr Ms claim was made within the first 90 days, she 
thought it was fair for Pinnacle to rely on this to decline Mr Ms claim.
Mr M remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, the case has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I understand this wont be the answer 
he was hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning below.
Mr Ms policy with Pinnacle clearly says hes not insured for Breakdown or damage caused 
by wear and tear in the first 90 days of this policy (unless this policy is a renewal or an 
extension of a manufacturers warranty) irrespective of whether or not a pre-warranty 
inspection was carried out.
Mr M made his claim 48 days after he bought the policy, so Im satisfied Pinnacle can rely on 
this clause. The key point I need to consider is whether or not the damage was caused by 
wear and tear.
Mr Ms repairing garage diagnosed a problem with the gearbox but couldnt determine the 
cause of the failure. Mr Ms car was then moved to another garage, who confirmed the 
gearbox had failed, but they too couldnt determine the cause of the failure.
Pinnacle instructed an independent engineer to assess the damage to try and determine the 
root cause of the failure. That engineers report clearly states that the clutch pack displayed 
significant wear and that there was no evidence of any sudden breakage. This report goes 
on to say the cause of the condition is consistent with general in-service wear and 
deterioration to the clutch pack. Its fair Pinnacle rely on this report, as the engineer who 
carried it out can be reasonably considered to be an expert in their field.
I understand Mr Ms point that the gearbox itself didnt fail due to wear and tear. But I think 
the report is clear in saying that the root cause of the problem was the failure of the clutch, 
which in turn caused the failure of the gearbox. Im satisfied that report indicates the clutch 
failed due to wear and tear.
But Ive also considered the mileage at which the clutch failed. When Mr M purchased his 
car it had travelled roughly 23,000 miles. When his car broke down, it had travelled 26,564 
miles. Its clear Mr M hadnt travelled a lot in his car, and its clear that the car itself hadnt 
covered a lot of miles.
In a manual car, the wear on the clutch can be heavily impacted by driving style. But Mr Ms 
car was an automatic. However, Pinnacle has explained that driving style can still affect the 
wear on the clutch. Quick accelerating and/or stop start driving can increase the wear on the 
clutch compared to lengthy motorway driving. And I think this is reasonable. As Mr M had 
only travelled 3,564 miles in the car and owned it for 48 days, most of the cars driving 
history was with another driver, whose driving style could have contributed to the wear on 
the clutch.
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied that its fair for Pinnacle to rely on the 
report carried out by the independent engineer. That report clearly suggests that the damage 
was caused by wear and tear, and that that wear was in line with general in-service wear.
Therefore, as the damage was caused by wear and tear and occurred within the first 90 
days of cover, its not something Mr Ms policy provides him cover for. Because of this, Im 
satisfied Pinnacles decision to not pay Mr Ms claim was in line with the policy terms and is 
a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman