DRN-1766598
The complaint 
Mr and Mrs M have complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (the Co-op) mis-sold them a 
packaged bank account, called a Privilege account. 
Mr and Mrs M paid a monthly fee for the Privilege account and received several potential 
benefits in return. They think that the Co-op should refund them all the fees they paid, plus 
interest. 
What happened 
Mr and Mrs M have held a bank account with the Co-op for quite a long time. I understand 
that for several years they held one of its fee-free accounts and then in 2002 the Co-op sold 
them the Privilege account. This replaced their fee-free account and Co-op started to charge 
them the monthly fee. Amongst other things, the potential benefits of the Privilege account 
included travel insurance. The Co-op provided this benefit through a separate insurance 
company (the insurer). 
Unfortunately, in 2018, Mr M became seriously ill whilst travelling on an aeroplane which had 
to make an emergency landing so he could receive medical care. I understand that he was 
in hospital for around a week and that Mr and Mrs Ms adult daughter stayed in a nearby 
hotel to help care for him during this time. 
Mr and Mrs M made a claim on the travel insurance which came with Privilege account. I do 
not know many details of their claim, but I gather it included costs incurred by Mr and Mrs M 
themselves and by their daughter. I gather that the insurer paid for some of Mr and Mrs Ms 
own costs, but not for any of those incurred by their daughter. Mr and Mrs M think this was 
unfair and shows that the Co-op mis-sold them the account. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and didnt think 
that the Co-op mis-sold the Privilege account to them. Mr and Mrs M didnt agree and asked 
for an ombudsman to review their case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do in Mr and Mrs Ms case. Ive 
looked into everything that Mr and Mrs M and the Co-op have told us or sent us about the 
complaint, and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why in a moment, but first I would like 
to extend my best wishes to Mr and Mrs M and their daughter following Mr Ms illness on the 
plane. It must have been a very worrying and upsetting experience for them and I gather that 
Mr Ms ill health has continued. Im sorry to hear this and I wish him well.  
Mr and Mrs M have been very clear that the main point of their complaint against the Co-op 
is about the way it sold them the account. Theyve told us that when the insurer excluded 
their daughters costs, it only paid them less than half of their total claim and so they think 
that the Co-op sold them a travel policy which wasnt fit for purpose and therefore must 
have mis-sold them the Privilege account. 
Mr and Mrs Ms account was in their joint names and the travel policy covered both of them 
against certain risk, and resulting financial costs, while travelling. In some circumstances, it 
could also cover children who were dependent upon them. 
I fully accept that the insurer didnt pay for everything that Mr and Mrs M claimed, but this 
doesnt mean that the policy wasnt fit for purpose. The policy certainly covered some risks, 
and although I dont know for sure if the insurer was right to exclude the costs which Mr and 
Mrs Ms daughter incurred (although I understand that she was above the normal age limit to 
be classed as a dependent child), this is primarily a matter for the insurer. The Co-ops 
responsibility was to sell the Privilege account, and the insurance it provided, to Mr and Mrs 
M fairly and without misleading them. 
In 2002, the Co-op, along with other banks, could sell packaged bank accounts in two ways. 
It could do so without giving personal advice on an information-only (or non-advised) basis; 
or as an advised (or recommended) sale. Whichever approach the Co-op used for Mr and 
Mrs M, as well as giving them a choice, I would have expected it to tell them about the 
Privilege accounts costs and benefits clearly and fairly; and in an advised sale, I would also 
have expected it to check if they needed the benefits which the account could provide before 
making any recommendation. 
Neither the Co-op, nor Mr and Mrs M, have told us a great deal about the sale itself, 
although they have both agreed that the Co-op sold the account to them during a discussion 
at one of its branches, rather than over the telephone or online or through the post. The Co-
op has told us that when selling Privilege accounts, it usually did so on a non-advised basis. 
I havent seen anything to make me think it changed this practice for Mr and Mrs M, so I 
have considered their complaint to be about an information-only sale.
I have already said that I dont agree with Mr and Mrs M that the travel policy wasnt fit for 
purpose, but I have also considered if the Co-op did anything to make them think that it 
covered more risks (or people) than it did and so misled them into believing that their 
daughters costs should have been covered. 
The Co-op has told us that it when it sold the Privilege account to Mr and Mrs M, it gave 
them various leaflets about the account, including a welcome pack and a copy of the travel 
policy. I have looked at both the current version of the policy on the Co-ops website and 
some earlier examples, as policies do change from time-to-time. The policy documents are 
all quite detailed and lengthy, but they highlight who is insured and I dont think they are 
misleading about the risks or people covered. Obviously, I cant tell for sure what the Co-op 
said, or didnt say, to Mr and Mrs M during the discussion at its branch, but I doubt that it 
said anything to make them think the policy covered risks and people beyond those 
described in the relevant leaflets. 
As the Co-op was trying to sell the Privilege account to Mr and Mrs M, I also think its highly 
likely that it told them about the other potential benefits it could provide.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that the Co-op told Mr and Mrs M about the monthly 
fees for the Privilege account, but they have complained that they dont think it gave them a 
fair choice. Theyve told us that the Co-op said they had to pay for (their) bank account and 
that it did not make them aware (they) had any option until the insurance claim.I accept that Mr and Mrs M are trying their best to remember what Co-op said to them in 
2002, but as they had held a fee-free account for several years before then, I doubt it told 
them they didnt have a choice and had to start paying for a bank account. This would have 
contradicted their own experience at the time and would also have been incorrect as the Co-
op has continued to provide fee-free accounts. I think its more likely that the Co-op told Mr 
and Mrs M about the Privilege account and then allowed them a choice about buying it.
 
In the course of our investigation into this complaint, Mr and Mrs M have raised some 
concerns which seem as if they may to be more appropriate to the insurer than to the Co-op. 
For example, they have told us that the insurer may have told them to include their 
daughters costs in their claim and then delayed things until it was too late for her to claim on 
her own insurance. I have not considered these concerns in this decision, which is only 
relevant to the Co-op. If Mr and Mrs M wish, they may still be able to complain to the insurer 
about this. Similarly, their daughter may still be able to make a claim on her own insurance 
policy. However, I cannot give Mr and Mrs M, or their daughter, any advice about this. Nor 
can I speculate on possible outcomes.
Similarly, Mr and Mrs M have also raised concerns about other insurance policies the Co-op 
sold them when they took out some loans. They havent told us a great deal about these 
other policies. They may have been for payment protection or they may have been for 
something else. Either way, I have not considered them within this decision. Mr and Mrs M 
may be able to raise a separate complaint about these policies with Co-op ban k if they so 
wish. Again, I cannot give them any advice about this, or speculate on the likely outcome. 
However, there are time limits on how long they have to complain (particularly for payment 
protection) and the Co-op may decline to investigate any complaint if it thinks Mr and Mrs M 
have made it too late.
So, in summary, although I accept that the Co-op may not have done everything right in the 
way it sold the Privilege account to Mr and Mrs M, I dont think it misled them about the 
people and risks the travel policy covered. Im also satisfied that it told them about the other 
potential benefits of the Privilege account and the fees they would have to pay. I also think it 
probably gave them a choice to buy the Privilege account or to keep the fee-free account 
they already had. 
I dont think that the Co-op mis-sold the Privilege account to Mr and Mrs M.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about 
The Co-operative Bank Plc. I am not going to tell it to give them any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 January 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman