DRN-4451934
The complaint
Mr J complains that Nationwide Building Society has been collecting charges from him as 
part of a stocks and shares ISA investment he took out, but he hasnt been offered or 
received the service he paid for. He would like the charges to be refunded. 
What happened
In March 2002, Mr J invested in a Nationwide Life stocks and shares ISA. Due to the 
passage of time, Nationwide has no sales paperwork available. Mr J has provided a 
confirmation of the investment and Nationwides involvement in the sale. 
The ISA remained invested for several years and responsibility for administering the 
investment has passed between several businesses. 
Nationwide sent Mr J a letter in December 2021, which confirmed the service charge he was 
paying entitled him to financial advice. He contacted Nationwide, who told him he could 
discontinue the service charge. So, he asked the current investment manager to remove 
Nationwide as his advisor and stop the charge.  In January 2022, Mr J raised a complaint 
with Nationwide. He complained that he had been paying a service charge that entitled him 
to the availability of financial advice, but he had never received or been offered advice. 
I issued a provisional decision in October 2023. This is what I said: 
Mr J took out his ISA in 2002 and this was sold by Nationwide. Since then, the business 
responsible for the management of his ISA has changed several times. This has meant that 
the charges and fees on his investment have been administered and collected by different 
businesses over the years. But what has remained consistent is that Nationwide were 
recorded as the business who sold his investment. As a result of this, during the time hes 
held the investment Nationwide has received ongoing payments. 
When Mr J took out his investment in 2002, Nationwide started to receive trail commission 
as part of the transaction. Trail commission is a fee paid to the business / financial adviser 
who sold the investment. It usually takes the form of a percentage fee taken from the sum of 
the investment and intended to cover an ongoing service. It wasnt something that Mr J could 
opt out of. At the time it was legitimate and not uncommon for advisors or intermediaries 
selling investments to be paid in this way and commission would form part of a bundle of 
charges which were deducted from any investments sold.
The Financial Services Authority (FSA), the UKs former industry regulator, conducted whats
known as The Retail Distribution Review (RDR), which outlawed trail commission for all new
investments sold following 31 December 2012. But it did not immediately require any
amendments be made to existing arrangements which were subject to trail commission  
such as Mr Js ISA. There were further changes brought in for pre-RDR investments that 
came into effect after 2013. It appears it was at this point that a commercial decision was 
taken by the investment manager of Mr Js ISA to restructure its charges. 
Nationwide has provided copies of correspondence sent to Mr J about changes to charges 
around this time. Ive seen an August 2014 letter from the investment manager. This gives 
information about platform fees and service charges. The section on service charges 
explains The Service Charge is as agreed with the person or company who introduced you 
to the investment. And goes on to say you can get more detail about the charge from them. 
It does say that it will be charged at 0.5%. Nationwide has provided copies of letters dated 
October 2015 and January 2016 from the investment manager to Mr J about changes to the 
structure of charges. Nationwide says the January 2016 letter referred Mr J to the Financial 
Planning Team at Nationwide if he wanted to speak to about his options. 
Nationwide has also referred to a tariff of charges document Mr J had access to. It says this 
supports he was aware of the availability of advisory services. In my view this wasnt 
particularly clear. On the second page of the January 2016 letter in a section under the 
heading New Terms and Conditions there was a website address to follow that provided a 
document giving details of charges and services. As previously mentioned, I dont think its 
apparent that Mr J would have understood from this letter the importance of following this 
link to find information about the services including as part of the service charge. 
It appears when changes were made to charges, the decision made by the investment 
manager sought to convert the previously bundled (with trail commission) charging 
arrangements into a new unbundled format. In the unbundled format, the trail commission 
would still exist, but it would be displayed clearly and separately from other fees charged to 
the investment. From the information Ive seen this is what happened with Mr Js investment 
when a service charge started to appear on his statements. The first statement Ive seen 
showing the service charge is from Mr Js 2016 statement. 
Ive considered all of this evidence alongside the information from the conclusions of the 
RDR, to decide what is fair and reasonable in these circumstances. There was no regulatory 
requirement for firms to provide a specific level of service in exchange for historic trail 
commission they receive. In short, investments like this one, when they were sold, the firm 
could take an open-ended annual sum from the investment to pay for the initial sale. Thats 
whats happened here and I see no fair and reasonable reason to say Nationwide shouldnt 
have charged it. Ive thought about this carefully when considering Mr Js complaint. I 
acknowledge his comments about not requiring or receiving advice services in exchange for 
the charge applied. But I havent found that the relevant regulations required a service to be 
provided in exchange for the commission to be claimed. I also acknowledge that Nationwide 
has confirmed that the trail commission originally charged wasnt something that was 
optional when Mr J first took out his investment. So, this wasnt something that he could 
have avoided all together  even if he did have full clarity of the services that were being 
provided.
Mr J has acknowledged that he was aware of the fee when it appeared on his statement as 
a service charge, but not the services being charged for. Referring to the regulators 
guidance for consumers about trail commission, it wouldve been for Mr J to either rearrange 
his investment to remove the commission element. Or alternatively, to speak to Nationwide 
about the level of service it was providing in exchange for the fee it was collecting. As I 
havent seen evidence of this happening, I havent found a failing. Going back to Mr Js 
awareness of the service charge - given this, I think it reasonable for him to have enquired 
further with Nationwide if he was concerned, he might not be getting value for money out of 
it. As Ive mentioned above, I think Nationwide didnt do a good enough job of highlighting 
the services the charge was for. But here I dont think thats resulted in a loss to Mr J. By his 
own admission he didnt want to use the advisory services, so I dont think hes lost out on 
the ability to have done so. In my view Mr J knowing about the charge in 2016, especially 
without knowing what it was for, was enough for him to take steps to either find out more or 
ask Nationwide to stop charging it. I therefore dont find that Nationwides somewhat unclear explanation of the services has been to Mr Js detriment. I appreciate Mr J will be 
disappointed by this conclusion but I havent found that Nationwide has done something 
wrong in the way it collected charges for the available services.  
Nationwide has told us that when the current investment manager took over the running of 
the investment in April/May 2019, there was an ability to opt out of the charge and 
associated services that came with it - and this would need to be requested. As mentioned 
above, Mr J took up this option around the time he made his complaint. So going forward he 
isnt paying for the services he doesnt require. 
Mr J responded to reaffirm that until Nationwides letter in December 2021, it was far from 
transparent that he was being charged for the availability of financial advice  and he was 
unaware that he had been paying 0.5% per annum unnecessarily. He still believes that 
Nationwide should refund the charges paid.
Nationwide responded to say it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further submissions made by Mr J. I acknowledge the points he makes 
about his awareness of the availability of advice and that he has paid unnecessary fees. But 
I havent found reason to change the conclusion I reached in my provisional findings. 
For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I havent found Mr J should be 
refunded the service charges hes paid or that I should conclude that Nationwide has failed 
in its obligations. In coming to my decision about whats fair and reasonable in this case, Ive 
thought very carefully about the findings of the regulators RDR. I understand Mr Js 
frustration at paying a fee for services that he was unaware of but having considered the 
circumstances of how and why it came about, Im not persuaded that Nationwide has treated 
him unfairly. It follows that I do not require Nationwide to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman