DRN-4095334
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc have treated him poorly which at times has been 
borderline harassment and they did not follow their fraud processes.
Mr R is represented by his father in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill refer 
to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mr R himself.
What happened
Mr R attempted to transfer a family member over £16,000 to a third party account, however, 
HSBCs systems flagged this for a fraud check. Mr R says they handled this very poorly and 
they did not follow their fraud processes as they were borderline harassing him. He said he 
wanted his father to talk on his behalf, but HSBC said he didnt have an Authorised Adult 
Mandate (AAM) set up on the account. Mr R made a complaint to HSBC.
HSBC upheld Mr Rs complaint. They said their fraud detection defences became concerned 
with the payment being processed for £16,663 on 25 October 2022. They said although this 
was the right thing to do, their service thereafter had not been good enough. HSBC said they 
tried to contact the number held on file on 26 October 2022 and 27 October 2022 to follow 
their policies and to make sure this payment was not fraudulent, but the payment was 
subsequently released in error on 26 October 2022. HSBC said that as they could not reach 
Mr R on 26 October 2022, a colleague reviewed the fraud alert and issued a letter early on 
27 October 2022, but ideally they should have closed the alert at that stage to give Mr R time 
to call back, but they left the alert open, and calls continued.
HSBC said Mr R called them on 27 October 2022, but the call was not handled well and the 
call handler did not take Mr Rs age into consideration, diligently relied on their procedures, 
and did not think outside of the box. They said there was no AAM on the account, allowing 
them to speak with Mr Rs father, but they have now added this to stop the issue reoccurring. 
HSBC said that once the call was completed, they should have closed the fraud alert, which 
would have stopped any future calls being made as the payment had already been released 
and discussed. HSBC said they missed this simple step which led to further inappropriate 
calls. As a result of this, HSBC said they credited £500 to Mr Rs account.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. He said the error which caused the lack of 
check before the release of funds was not picked up by the agents concerned on several 
occasions and these mistakes did lead to unnecessary calls with Mr R and his father which 
caused upset and stress, which due to Mr Rs age was concerning. He said on receiving the 
complaint, HSBC did deal with it promptly, acknowledged their errors and also amended the 
mandate on the account to improve matters going forward. He said the £500 compensation 
that HSBC paid him was in line with our guidelines for compensation.
Mr R asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said the issues here had a direct 
impact on him as he is now very aware of transactions in his account and he has disputed 
several transactions with HSBC which are genuine, which is a behaviour caused directly 
from the experience he had with them. He said the compensation does not take into account 
the time and the impact this has also had on his father, who incurred losses due to his time 
in resolving this issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent them being victims of scams and fraud. Sometimes they identify and block 
legitimate payments due to security concerns. This can cause distress and inconvenience to 
a customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted incorrectly. 
I have listened to the calls Mr R had with HSBC on 27 October 2022. The initial call handler 
repeats several questions which Mr R had already provided the answer, which leads to 
frustration for Mr R, and he passes the phone onto his father. The call handler fails to realise 
that the funds had already been released and the call is not handled well, despite Mr Rs 
father already explaining the funds are already in the third party account, which the call 
handler tells him the payment is still pending on their end. The call is later disconnected 
which resulted in Mr R needing to ring them back. 
Mr R is audibly distressed on the next call and his father takes over the call. Again, the new 
call handler misses the opportunity to provide a more bespoke service, as he doesnt take 
into account Mr Rs age, despite clarifying to Mr Rs father the age of Mr R. The call is then 
passed onto a floor supervisor, who after speaking with Mr R says she will be able to remove 
the blocks for the online banking and release the payment (albeit the payment was already 
released). This appeared to resolve the issue. 
But Mr R received a call later on in the day from HSBCs fraud department. The call handler 
did not realise that the funds had already been released and the security checks had already 
been completed. Mr R passed the phone to his dad after he had completed verification  
which they shouldve allowed on previous calls given the unique circumstances here. There 
is a heated discussion between Mr Rs father and the call handler about transferring the call 
to a supervisor and then the line disconnects, although its not clear how the line 
disconnects. 
Mr R then receives another call later that day from HSBCs fraud department to verify the 
payment which had already been verified earlier in the day. Mr Rs father tells the call 
handler that the previous call handler hung up on him after he wanted to speak to a 
manager. Mr Rs father asks to speak to a manager and the call handler tries to find a 
manager, but she is unsuccessful. She explains to Mr Rs father that shes also looked into 
the payment, and she can see there is a technical issue which is causing further calls 
despite the payment already being released and she would ensure there are no more calls 
made to Mr R about this. Ive seen no evidence of further calls regarding this payment to Mr 
R after this call, so it does appear the call handler took the relevant action.
Based on the details of the attempted transfer, I would expect this transaction to be flagged 
for further security checks. But after the transaction was flagged, a number of errors 
occurred which resulted in Mr R being let down by HSBC on a number of occasions which 
HSBC admit to. These include but are not limited to HSBC releasing the payment in error, 
the alert staying on Mr Rs account which led to agents trying to contact Mr R, the handling 
of the calls from HSBC - especially considering Mr Rs age with no adjustments being made 
for this, no AAM on the account which resulted in Mr Rs father being unable to quickly 
resolve the issue, and the alert being rescheduled instead of cancelled which set Mr R up for 
more contact from HSBC. And its probable they disconnected the call on at least one 
occasion as opposed to trying to resolve the issue.Ive considered what compensation would be fair for this complaint. In doing so, I want to be 
clear to Mr R that here, he is the only eligible complainant on this complaint (regardless of 
whether his father can act on his behalf or not). So although his father may have been 
impacted by the events Ive documented, our rules only allow me to consider the impact of 
HSBCs errors on the eligible complainant. But here, Im satisfied that Mr R as the eligible 
complainant has directly suffered inconvenience and distress from HSBCs actions. 
Im persuaded that £500 is proportionate compensation for what happened here. While the 
funds were released earlier than they should have been (prior to security checks), they did 
thankfully go to the intended account. From when the funds were first attempted to the last 
call HSBC made to Mr R, it appears this timeframe is less than 48 hours. HSBC have since 
added the AAM onto the account which should avoid this happening again.
But Ive also considered Mr Rs individual circumstances here. Ive took into account his age 
and the impact he says this has had on him including events that took place even after this 
was resolved. And Im satisfied that £500 compensation is in line with what I would have 
awarded him if HSBC had not upheld his complaint. This is because Im persuaded that 
HSBCs errors did cause him considerable distress, upset and worry despite the main errors 
lasting less than 48 hours. But as HSBC have said they have credited Mr Rs account with 
£500, it follows I dont require HSBC to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman