DRN-4254424
The complaint
Mr H complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc blocked his account and requires him to complete 
enhanced security checks before it will remove the block.
What happened
Mr H holds a credit card account with Sainsburys Bank. In November 2022, several 
transactions which he attempted on the card were declined, so he called Sainsburys Bank 
to find out why. Sainsburys Banks agent told Mr H that his account had been blocked 
because some mail had been returned undelivered. They couldnt tell Mr H what the piece of 
mail was. Mr H said his address hadnt changed. He said Sainsburys Bank should have 
called him to tell him about the block as this would have saved him the embarrassment of 
having his card declined while shopping. 
Sainsburys Banks agent said that Mr H would need to answer some enhanced security 
questions to remove the block, some of which related to information on his credit file. Mr H 
wasnt happy about this and declined to answer the questions. He said that, if Sainsburys 
Bank had any doubt about who it was speaking to, the agent shouldnt have discussed any 
details about the account during the call. He raised a complaint and asked for a transcript of 
the call. The block remained in place.
Sainsburys Bank said that, when mail is returned, its policy is to place a block on the 
customers account until it can confirm their current address. It said it couldnt tell Mr H 
exactly what mail had been returned as this had been destroyed for security reasons. It said 
it had sent Mr H a secure message through his online banking telling him his account was 
blocked and what he needed to do. Sainsburys Bank said it couldnt override this security 
process, so Mr H would need to complete the steps set out in the message for the block to 
be removed. It said it couldnt provide the call transcript while the block remained in place.
Unfortunately, Sainsburys Bank sent its complaint response to an incorrect email address, 
so Mr H didnt receive it. This came to light several weeks later when Mr H chased up a 
response. Sainsburys Bank apologised for this and offered Mr H £50 in recognition of its 
mistake. This hasnt been paid to date as Mr H didnt accept the offer.
After this, Mr H confirmed by email that the address held on his online account was correct. 
He said no mail should have been returned and Sainsburys Bank shouldnt have blocked his 
account. He asked for all the information Sainsburys Bank holds about him, the 
correspondence it sent him between 1 October 2022 and 30 December 2022 and a 
transcript of the call from November. He said that, as his address was correct, the block 
should be removed. But Sainsburys Bank said Mr H would still need to complete the higher 
level of security. It said it couldnt confirm any details about the account or provide the 
information he had requested until the security process had been completed.
After further contact from Mr H, Sainsburys Bank reviewed the complaint. It maintained that 
it couldnt remove the block because Mr H had declined to complete the security checks. But 
it said it would send him a secure code which he could use to reset his account security. It 
said it wouldnt be able to discuss the account with Mr H until he had done this. 
Mr H wasnt happy with Sainsburys Banks response and brought the complaint to this 
service in May. He wants it to unblock his account and provide all the information he has 
requested under his subject access request. He would also like some compensation. He 
says he has received mail from Sainsburys Bank while the block is in place, which is at odds 
with Sainsburys Banks stance that it cant comply with his subject access request until he 
has completed the security checks. Mr H says he has repeatedly asked Sainsburys Bank to 
explain its requirement for enhanced security, but it has refused to do this. 
Our Investigator thought that Sainsburys Bank had acted reasonably. But Mr H didnt agree 
and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Sainsburys Bank has acted fairly and reasonably here so Im not 
going to ask it to do anything. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs account say that Sainsburys Bank may suspend, restrict 
or cancel the use of his card or stop the use of its telephone or online service if its 
concerned about the security of his account.
Sainsburys Bank says that mail sent to Mr Hs address was returned. It says that, when this 
happens, it needs to secure the customers account until it can verify that the details it holds 
are correct. I think thats a reasonable approach.
Mr H says that nothing was delivered to his address and has asked what mail was returned. 
He says that Sainsburys Banks agent told him it wasnt a statement but couldnt confirm 
what it was. Sainsburys Bank says it cant confirm what the mail was as it was destroyed for 
security reasons. I think thats reasonable. Mr H says it was probably a marketing 
communication and doesnt think this justifies his account being blocked. I havent seen 
anything to suggest what the item of mail was. But I have no reason to doubt that mail was 
returned to Sainsburys Bank. So, regardless of the type of document it was, I think 
Sainsburys Bank had cause for concern about the security of Mr Hs account. Therefore, I 
think it was reasonable for it to block the account.
Mr H says that Sainsburys Bank should have told him it had blocked his account. Im 
satisfied that it sent him a secure message through his online banking on the day the 
account was blocked. So it did tell him about the block. But Mr H says that Sainsburys Bank 
should have known that he wasnt using online banking so wouldnt receive the message. 
Sainsburys Bank says it doesnt monitor individual accounts, so it wouldnt have known that 
Mr H wasnt accessing online banking. I think thats reasonable. Mr H says that Sainsburys 
Bank should have called him or sent him a text message. I can understand that would have 
been preferable for him. But I dont think Sainsburys Bank did anything wrong by using 
online banking to inform him of the block. The terms and conditions of his account allow it to 
contact him in this way and I think it was reasonable for it to do so here.
Turning now to the steps required to unblock the account, Sainsburys Bank says that Mr H 
needs to complete a higher level of security before it can do this. Id expect Sainsburys 
Bank to have security measures and procedures in place to safeguard customers accounts 
and prevent fraud so far as possible. Its for Sainsburys Bank to decide exactly what those 
procedures are and how theyre carried out. But I think its reasonable for it to have particular measures in place to deal with the removal of a security block. And Im satisfied that 
Sainsburys Banks process requires enhanced security to be completed in this situation. 
So, I find that Sainsburys Bank was following its usual process by asking Mr H to complete 
the enhanced security checks. Its in the nature of checks like this that they do sometimes 
cause inconvenience, but the checks are in place to protect customers. Here, I dont think 
Sainsburys Banks approach was unreasonable or unduly inconvenient to Mr H.
But Mr H says he had already passed security on the call and the agent had confirmed 
certain details about his account. He says they shouldnt have done this if they had any 
doubts that he was the genuine customer. Sainsburys Bank has explained that there are 
different levels of security within its process. Removing a block from a customers account 
poses a significant risk, so it requires a higher level of security than some other actions. Mr 
H had completed a lower level of security, which enabled the agent to discuss issues up to a 
point. But a higher level of security had to be passed for the riskier action of removing the 
block to be completed. I think thats a reasonable explanation.
After Mr H declined to answer the enhanced security questions over the phone, Sainsburys 
Bank offered him another way of completing security. It said he could log in to online banking 
to check and update his address. Mr H says he logged in and saw that the address held on 
his account was correct. The information Ive seen confirms that Mr H logged in at the end of 
December and viewed the account, but the block wasnt lifted. Sainsburys Bank has 
explained that, although Mr H viewed the account details and his address hasnt changed, 
he would need to re-enter and save the address to satisfy its requirements. I dont think this 
was clear from Sainsburys Banks communications with Mr H at the time.
However, following further contact from Mr H, Sainsburys Bank offered an alternative 
solution. In March, it sent Mr H a secure code by email. It has asked him to call and confirm 
this code, following which it says it will be able to remove the block and also unlock 
telephone access to his account (which is currently locked as a result of his decision not to 
answer the enhanced security questions on the previous call). I think this is a fair approach: 
it enables Mr Hs account to be unblocked without him having to answer further questions 
but without compromising the security of his account. 
Mr H has confirmed that he received the code but he hasnt contacted Sainsburys Bank. I 
dont think Sainsburys Banks security requirements are onerous here. And it has offered a 
solution which goes beyond its usual procedure in an effort to resolve the situation. Mr H has 
chosen not to complete the security process or use the code. So, its reasonable for 
Sainsburys Bank to keep the block in place.
Mr H is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank hasnt provided the information he requested through 
a subject access request. Sainsburys Bank says that, as the account is blocked due to 
security concerns over returned mail, it cant send out the information Mr H has requested. It 
says it will be able to do so once the security requirements have been completed. This could 
be resolved by Mr H calling Sainsburys Bank with the code Ive referred to above. I think 
Sainsburys Banks approach is reasonable. Mr H has received some mail from Sainsburys 
Bank while the block has been in place. But I dont find that to be inconsistent with 
Sainsburys Banks approach because those letters dont contain sensitive personal 
information. I dont think Sainsburys Bank has acted unfairly in this respect. But if Mr H 
remains unhappy, he can ask the Information Commissioners Office to look at it. 
When Sainsburys Bank responded to the complaint, it made a typing error in Mr Hs email 
address, so he didnt receive the email. Sainsburys Bank acknowledged this mistake and 
offered Mr H £50 as an apology. I think this is a fair offer as I think the impact of this mistake 
was minimal. But Mr H says that Sainsburys Bank should have had his email address on file as it sends him marketing emails. Sainsburys Bank says that he may receive marketing 
emails from other parts of the business, but it doesnt hold an address on his account. It says 
it took his email address for the purposes of this complaint, but it wasnt saved to his 
account. It says that, once Mr H has completed the enhanced security process, it can update 
the email address to his account. I think thats reasonable. 
In conclusion, I think Sainsburys Bank acted fairly and reasonably here. If Mr H wants to 
unblock his account, he should contact Sainsburys Bank using the secure code. If he now 
wishes to accept the offer of £50 for the mistake with the email address, he should let 
Sainsburys Bank know. But Im not going to ask Sainsburys Bank to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman