DRN-4098470
The complaint
Ms H complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a claim made on her motor 
insurance policy. She wants it to increase its compensation payment for her trouble and 
upset. 
What happened
Ms H was involved in a car accident in 2019 and made a claim on her policy. Ms H was 
unhappy with how AXA investigated the claim and considered her evidence that she hadnt 
been at fault. AXA abandoned the claim in 2022. It told Ms H that it would be recorded as 
non-fault and her No Claims Bonus (NCB) would be unaffected. It offered Ms H £800 
compensation for her inconvenience. But Ms H thought this wasnt sufficient for its delays, 
and for her trouble and upset. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought AXAs 
compensation payment was fair and reasonable. But he thought the fault claim had affected 
Ms Hs premium for a number of years. He thought AXA should refund the difference for the 
three previous years if Ms H had paid more for her cover because of the fault claim. 
AXA agreed to do this. Ms H replied that she thought AXA should refund her premium 
increases for three years, her policy excess and her expenses. She thought further 
compensation was warranted for her four years trouble and upset. She wanted confirmation 
from AXA that the fault claim had been removed from her records. Ms H asked for an 
Ombudsmans review, so her complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has kindly provided us with a detailed timeline of her experience following the accident 
and raising a claim on her policy. I can see that this has been a frustrating and time 
consuming experience for Ms H. And I can understand that Ms H was upset that AXA 
abandoned the claim and settled it as fault after more than two years. This was despite her 
providing details of witnesses and dashcam footage to support her version of events. 
In its response to Ms Hs complaint, AXA said that the claim had been mishandled by AXA 
throughout and it was clear there was a considerable delay caused by its lack of proactivity. 
Ms H had contacted AXA on multiple occasions, and it was clear it had not replied in a timely 
manner, or on occasions not at all. AXA has also agreed that it should have done more with 
the evidence available to push for a non-fault settlement. 
When a business makes mistakes, as AXA accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
In AXAs response to Ms Hs complaint it said it had changed the claim to non-fault and her 
NCB would be unaffected. It has confirmed that no claims are showing on the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. Ms H asked for written confirmation of this, and I 
think thats a reasonable request in the circumstances.
AXA has agreed to redress the effect the fault claim had on Ms Hs premium for the following 
three years. Ms H has obtained evidence of the effect of the fault claim on her premiums 
from two subsequent insurers. I can understand that this is an inconvenience for Ms H, but I 
think its for her to provide the requested evidence of a premium increase from the third 
insurer if she wants AXA to refund it. 
Ms H also had to pay her policy excess of £150. This is always the first part of a claim to be 
paid and is an uninsured loss. So AXA wouldnt usually refund it unless it had recovered its 
outlay from the other driver. But I dont think this would be fair in Ms Hs circumstances. I can 
see from its file notes that AXA offered to refund her policy excess in 2021 as a gesture of 
goodwill for its delays. But it didnt action this at the time. So I think it should now do this. I 
asked AXA to comment on this, but it hasnt responded. 
Ms H said she had submitted a list of her out of pocket expenses to AXAs solicitors but had 
heard nothing further. These may have been required so that the solicitors could recover any 
uninsured losses from the other drivers insurer. But we wouldnt normally require an insurer 
to reimburse these. And I think they can reasonably be considered to be covered by the 
compensation payment. 
I think these actions reasonably restore Ms Hs position. So Ill now consider the impact 
AXAs claim handling had on Ms H. I think Ms H was caused substantial trouble and upset 
over more than two years. I can see that she was caused avoidable frustration by 
unanswered phones, unreturned calls and failed correspondence. I can see that pushing 
AXA for updates and resubmitting her evidence took an inordinate amount of Ms Hs time. 
And I can understand her frustration and upset. 
AXA offered Ms H £800 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of her claim. Im satisfied that this was in keeping with our published guidance for 
the level of impact this caused. In deciding this, I have considered the duration of the claim 
and the stress caused. Ive also considered that any incident and claim would involve a level 
of trouble and upset. So I dont require AXA to increase its offer.
Putting things right
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the following, as its already agreed to do:
1. Refund Ms H the increase in premium she paid for her motor insurance in the three 
years following the accident, on provision of reasonable evidence of this.
2. Refund Ms H the policy excess she paid.
3. Pay Ms H £800 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service.
4. Provide Ms H with a letter stating that the claim was closed as non-fault and her NCB 
was unaffected and this has been recorded on all external and internal databases
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman