DRN-3480178
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the way Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) has handled 
his income protection insurance policy.
All references to Great Lakes include any agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr W had an accident, sickness and unemployment policy which renewed monthly, 
underwritten by Great Lakes. It was reviewed every year on 1 May. In May 2021, Mr W 
received a letter dated 11 May 2022 which confirmed the cost of the policy, what he had paid 
for the last 12 months, and what he would pay for the next 12 months.
Mr W called to cancel soon after he received the review letter but was told he would need to 
give 30 days notice as set out in the policy terms. Unhappy with this, he complained and 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Great Lakes had done anything 
wrong. She found that the policy terms were clear and so didnt think Great Lakes had acted 
unfairly by requiring 30 days notice to cancel. 
Mr W disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
He has other insurance products and all the other insurers send him an annual 
statement with details of the premium for the next year around 40 days before the 
new policy starts. This gives him time to consider if he wants to continue.
Great Lakes send out annual statements and the new premiums for the next policy 
year after the start date of the new policy. As they refer to the next policy year, this 
indicates it is an annual policy and not a 30-day roiling policy.
He did not require the policy any longer and would have cancelled before the next 
policy year started had he received a letter in time.
Mr W has asked about timescales of making a claim including the waiting period for 
the new policy to become active.
He feels the policy was forced on him and Great Lakes gave misleading information 
about the date they sent policy information to him. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by the investigator. Whilst I wont respond to every point Mr W 
has made, I have fully considered everything he has said. And I will focus on what I consider 
to be key to my decision.
Ive seen the letter dated 11 May 2021 which was sent to Mr W. The letter said his annual 
statement was enclosed with details of his premiums for the last 12 months. It also 
confirmed the premium for the next 12 months. And it confirmed Great Lakes would write to 
him again ahead of the next policy anniversary to confirm what the premiums would be for 
the following 12 months.
The annual review document confirmed the policy could be cancelled at any time by 
providing 30 days notice.
The insurance product information document confirms Mr Ws cancellation rights if he 
cancels after the cooling off period. It says no refund of premiums is payable after the first 30 
days as it is a monthly policy and so he would have paid for the cover received.
The policy terms and schedule, which make up the contract of insurance between Mr W and 
Great Lakes, explain that the policy renews on a monthly basis, and that there is a 30-day 
cancellation period. This means the policy renews every month, not every year, and can be 
cancelled with a 30-day notice period. 
Mr W says the renewal letter came after the automatic start of the new policy and is dated 
after the policy start date. But this wasnt an annually renewable policy. It was an ongoing, 
monthly policy, with an annual review date. The terms and conditions confirm the policy is 
reviewed every year at the anniversary date of 1 May and if there are any changes made by 
Great Lakes, it will give Mr W 60 days notice. As no changes were made to his policy at the 
anniversary date, I dont think Great Lakes needed to do anything further. Mr W didnt need 
to wait until 1 May to cancel his policy. 
I note Mr W doesnt think there is a distinction between annually reviewable and annually 
renewable. But I think the policy terms are clear. 
Great Lakes did get confused about what Mr Ws complaint was. It thought he was 
complaining that the letter took too long to arrive. But he was complaining that the letter 
wasnt sent at least 30 days before 1 May. I dont think this makes any difference to the 
outcome of this complaint. The policy makes it clear that he can cancel at any time, so the 
date of Great Lakes letter isnt relevant to his cancellation. 
Mr W has commented that he is given time to consider if he wants to continue other 
insurance policies he has around 40 days before the new policies start. But the policy Mr W 
has with Great Lakes isnt an annual policy. The terms of his other policies arent relevant to 
this complaint as each insurer can decide how their policies work. 
Mr W also says Great Lakes reference to the next policy year indicates it is an annual 
policy. But I think the policy paperwork makes it clear the policy is monthly. The next policy 
year refers to the anniversary date and 12 months after that. I dont think that automatically 
means it is an annually renewable policy. Instead, it simply refers to payment of premiums 
for the next 12 months for an ongoing policy. Its reasonable for Great Lakes to review 
ongoing policies every year. 
Mr W has also asked about the deferred period for the policy. But this isnt something he has 
complained about to Great Lakes and so it doesnt form part of my decision. Finally, Mr W feels the policy was forced on him and that Great Lakes gave him misleading 
information. But I dont think thats the case as he could have cancelled at any time by giving 
30 days notice. And the date the policy information was sent to him didnt affect his ability to 
cancel his policy at any point during the year on the basis that this was a monthly policy. 
I know Mr W will be disappointed with my decision due to the strength of his feeling in this 
matter. But I hope my decision explains why Great Lakes hasnt acted unreasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman