The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA declined her dispute for an item she 
purchased. PayPal has said it declined the dispute because the item didnt meet Mrs As 
expectations, and this reason isnt covered under its buyer protection scheme. Mrs A says 
the item wasnt as described and PayPals decision was unfair because she returned the 
item and provided proof it was returned to the seller. 
What happened
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She said PayPals decision wasnt fair 
on Mrs A because she hadnt done anything wrong. She added that Mrs A had taken 
pictures of the damage she found when the item was received and provided these along with 
evidence the item was returned. So, Mrs A should receive a refund of the amount she paid 
for the item - £3,717.38. And PayPal should pay £150 in compensation for the trouble and 
upset its decision and the way it had handled the issue had caused. 
PayPal disagreed. It said it reserved the right to fairly decide the item didnt meet Mrs As 
expectations, so she wasnt covered under its buyer protection scheme. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold the complaint. And for largely the same reasons as the 
investigator.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I must make 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
This service would expect PayPal to resolve a dispute between two of its customers fairly. 
Having considered the file, Im not satisfied it has treated Mrs A fairly here. Mrs A has 
purchased an expensive item which, from the pictures Ive seen, had visible damage (wear 
and a tear) when it arrived. The seller said when the item was sold that it had some 
scratches. But I dont think this description matches the evidence provided by Mrs A. So, Im 
satisfied  on balance - the item wasnt as described. And that it wasnt fair or reasonable for 
PayPal to decide the item didnt meet her expectations in the circumstances. 
DRN-2344319Mrs A returned the item, obtained proof of postage and proof the seller received the item 
back. But PayPal still felt she shouldnt be covered and declined her dispute. PayPal has 
then said it wasnt right that Mrs A attempted to raise a chargeback through her bank. But 
Mrs A has said she only did this after the dispute was declined on 29 August 2019 and she 
spoke to a PayPal customer service agent who said this was the best course of action. I 
dont think Mrs A unreasonably contacted her bank in the circumstances in order to try and 
get her money back. This is a lot of money, and I would expect a reasonable person to try 
and exhaust all their options to get their money back in the circumstances. I also note 
PayPals own terms and conditions advise customers whose disputes have been declined to 
contact their card issuer. 
The chargeback was rejected but, as PayPal has pointed out, that decision is a separate 
process decided by a different set of rules with a third-party company. So, I havent 
considered that decision here when deciding whether PayPal should refund Mrs As money. 
Putting things right
So, PayPal should return to Mrs A the £3,717.38. And it should add 8% simple interest per 
year to this amount from 29 August 2019 to the date the settlement is made to recognise the 
time Mrs A has been without this money. 
As Ive mentioned above, I can understand why PayPals decision not to refund Mrs A her 
money when the item was returned to the seller wouldve caused her trouble and upset. Its 
a significant amount of money to be without. And it wouldve been troubling for Mrs A to then 
go through the chargeback process as a result of PayPals decision, and for this to be 
declined as well. So, I believe its right that PayPal pay Mrs A some compensation to 
recognise the trouble and upset it has caused. £150 seems reasonable to me, and in line 
with what Id expect in similar cases. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA 
must do the following; 
Refund Mrs A the amount she paid for the item - £3,717.38.
Add 8% simple interest per year to the above amount from 29 August 2019 (the date
the dispute was declined) to the date of settlement.
Pay Mrs A £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman