DRN-3061934
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain because U K Insurance Limited (UKI) refused to extend or refund 
an upgrade they purchased for their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C are insured under a policy, underwritten by UKI, which is provided as a benefit 
with their packaged bank account. In July 2019, Mr and Mrs C paid £75 for an age extension 
upgrade to their travel insurance policy. The upgrade ran from 21 August 2019 to 20 August 
2020. 
On 19 August 2020, Mr C contacted UKI and asked for the upgrade to be extended or 
refunded, as they hadnt been able to travel due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
UKI said it was unable to extend the upgrade and that Mr and Mrs C would only have been 
entitled to a refund if theyd cancelled it within the first 14 days. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs C complained to UKI before bringing their complaint to the attention of 
our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened but said he didnt think UKI had 
acted unfairly by refusing to extend the upgrade or refund any of the premium. Mr and Mrs C 
didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so their complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the applicable rules, regulations and law. I agree 
those are the relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Cs travel insurance policy say:
 
The account holder can cancel any upgrades or endorsements at any time by telling 
us either over the phone or in writing. We will not refund any premium unless the 
account holder cancels the relevant upgrade or endorsement within 14 days from the 
date of purchase or renewal or the date of receiving the relevant documents or 
renewal notice, whichever is the later, and so long as no insured person has travelled 
or made a claim.  
Mr and Mrs Cs policy upgrade was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so 
there is no requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for UKI to 
offer a refund.
As Ive outlined above, Mr and Mrs Cs contract of insurance says that UKI doesnt 
have to refund a policyholders upgrade premium after the cooling-off period has 
ended. In this case, Mr and Mrs Cs cooling-off period ended no later than September 
2019. But the policy wasnt cancelled until August 2020. So, the request to cancel the 
upgrade was significantly outside of the 14-day cooling-off period. This means I dont 
think the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Cs contract with UKI entitle them to any 
refund of premiums.
Ive also taken into account what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
the complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid19. I understand that Covid-19 had an impact on Mr and Mrs Cs travel plans 
and they had a cruise cancelled, but Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the 
upgrade contract with UKI to be performed. 
UKI covered the risk of Mr and Mrs C making a successful cancellation claim for any 
number of pre-booked holidays, or the risk of travelling on any number of holidays 
(regardless of whether or not Mr and Mrs C actually travelled) from the date the 
upgrade started on 21 August 2019 for the entirety of the time the upgrade was in 
force. UKI is entitled to retain the premiums relating to the risk it covered during this 
time. Ive considered what Mr C has said about being told he wouldnt have been 
covered if he and Mrs C had travelled against Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office advice but, this doesnt mean the upgrade was of no benefit to 
Mr and Mrs C and/or that UKI didnt carry any risk. 
UKI made a commercial decision to refund a portion of premiums paid by certain 
customers who purchased upgrades after a certain date if those customers contacted 
it to ask for an extension or a refund. UKI did this as a gesture of goodwill outside of 
its regulatory and contractual obligations. I cant fairly say UKI did anything wrong by 
setting the criteria that it did, or that it should have proactively contacted its 
customers to let them know what it had decided to do. 
Mr and Mrs Cs upgrade was purchased to run for a set period of time. Insurers 
wouldnt generally allow dates of cover to be altered in the way Mr and Mrs C 
originally requested for a number of reasons  including the changing nature of 
insurance risks and the way these are priced. So, I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for UKI to refuse to amend Mr and Mrs Cs upgrade. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C, but there arent any reasonable grounds on which I 
could fairly ask UKI to refund any of the premium they paid, or to extend their upgrade. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman