DRN-1101571
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited hasnt settled his claim 
under his motor insurance policy following the theft of his car. Mrs S is a named driver on the 
policy and is helping Mr S to bring his complaint.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr S told LV that his car had been stolen. He said that he and Mrs S had last 
used the car two days before and parked it on the road opposite his house. Mr S said hed 
locked the car and left his key on the key holder in the kitchen. Mr S said that when he came 
to use the car two days later, it wasnt there. Mr S reported the theft to the police and the car 
hasnt been recovered. 
Mr S told LV that he had two keys for the car and the second key was kept at his mothers 
home and was still there. LV asked Mr S to send it various things, including the keys. 
In May 2019, LV said that it wasnt satisfied with the circumstances of Mr S loss. It said that 
in order for it to settle a claim, it must be satisfied that a genuine incident occurred in the way 
that it was reported. LV said that a key forensic specialist said that one of the keys had been 
destroyed internally, so that it couldnt be read. But the specialist was able to establish that 
the key was for a different car. LV said it wasnt known how the car was stolen but one of the 
two keys is missing and Mr S had sent it a matching fob for a different car and the fob had 
been damaged internally. So, it couldnt validate Mr S claim.  
Mr S says that LV didnt contact him to him what was going on. He says that hes paid for the 
car and insurance and has no car and still owes money. Mr S wants LV to settle his credit 
agreement. He says he needs to get another car. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that LV had acted 
unfairly. The investigator said that LV had relied on the opinion of an independent forensic 
specialist and it wasnt satisfied that Mr S car had been stolen. 
Mrs S responded on Mr S behalf and said: 
She found the investigators findings lengthy and confusing. 
The car was stolen and they reported it to the police. 
LV didnt contact them during its investigation.
LV told them about issues with the second key but they had no knowledge about that 
before then.
Mr S explained to LV that the second key had been at his mothers home for three 
years and offered a theory that tradesmen at his mothers home may have been 
involved in the theft.
The spare key worked the last time they used it, which was about three years before, 
so when they sent it to LV they thought it worked.  The car is keyless and its widely known that it can be stolen without a key. The 
length of their hall from the front door to the kitchen, where the car keys were kept 
was approximately 25 feet and the car was parked outside their house.
Mr S asked neighbours if they had any CCTV footage but none captured the incident. 
They are telling the truth and theres been too much focus on the keys. 
 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding it and 
Ill explain why.
LV has a duty not to unreasonably decline a claim. But before that, its for Mr S to show hes 
suffered a loss, as hes described it, thats covered by his policy. LV has said in this case 
that it cant validate Mr S claim. Im satisfied that decision is reasonable.
LV instructed an investigator to examine the two keys Mr S provided. The investigator said 
that one of the keys Mr S had provided was for a different car and had been damaged by 
heat, so that information stored on the key couldnt be read. So, one of the original keys is 
missing and unaccounted for. I think it was reasonable for LV to rely on the investigators 
conclusions. 
As Mr S provided only one key for the car, its not known whether the other key was used to 
take the car. So, its not clear how the car was stolen. 
Theres nothing to support the suggestion that either thieves might have used an electronic 
device to operate the locking and ignition system or that tradesmen at Mr S mothers home 
were involved in some way. But if the missing key comes to light or theres any new 
evidence that an electronic device was used to override the locks and ignition system, I think 
it would be fair and reasonable for LV to reconsider its decision.
LV didnt keep Mr S updated about the progress of his claim. He made the claim in early 
March 2019 and he didnt hear about the outcome until May 2019. LV apologised for the 
delay in conveying its decision to Mr S. I think thats sufficient in this case. 
I understand Mr S position. But on the available evidence, I dont think LV has acted unfairly 
or contrary to the terms and conditions of Mr S policy in coming to the conclusion that it 
cant validate his claim. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask it to deal with Mr S 
claim as hed like. 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I don't uphold Mr S' complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Louise Povey
Ombudsman