DRN-2459962
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the actions of Comfomatic Ltd when she bought a bed from it with 
credit provided by a third party, which Ill call L. 
What happened
In September 2018 Mrs M bought an electronic bed from Comfomatic for a little over £3,700. 
Comfomatic arranged a loan from L, under which Mrs M was to pay for the bed at some 
£120 a month over four years.  
Mrs M reported a number of problems with the bed, which she took up with both Comfomatic 
and with L. 
She also said that she thought the loan had been mis-sold. She believed that Comfomatics 
sales representative had wrongly indicated that she had an annual income of £40,000  well 
above her actual earnings. Comfomatic denied that it had provided L with any information 
about Mrs Ms earnings; the lending decision had been Ls and lending applications were not 
in any event made through sales representatives.
Mrs M referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. She 
did not believe that Comfomatic had entered incorrect information and did not therefore 
recommend it do anything more to resolve Mrs Ms complaint. Mrs M did not accept the 
investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Comfomatic was both the seller of the bed and the credit broker. I can only consider its role 
as credit broker. I cannot consider here any complaint she might have about Comfomatic 
concerning the quality or suitability of the bed or any complaint about L concerning the loan. 
Mrs Ms complaint about Comfomatics role as credit broker is that it provided L with 
incorrect information about her income. I have however seen no evidence that that was the 
case. In fact, it does not appear that L sought information about Mrs Ms income at all. It was 
for L to decide what information it needed and whether it needed to see supporting evidence 
of that. I accept Comfomatics case that the sales representative would not have processed 
the credit application; that would have been done elsewhere. 
However, even if I were to reach a different conclusion on that point, I note that Comfomatic 
called Mrs M to discuss, amongst other things, her understanding of the credit agreement. 
She was able to provide, unprompted, details of the loan including the amount borrowed, the 
monthly payments, the total amount she would have to pay and the interest rate. She 
confirmed that she was happy with the terms. In the circumstances, I dont believe it would 
be fair to require that the finance agreement be ended.        
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require Comfomatic Ltd to do anything 
more to resolve Mrs Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman