DRN-2944481
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V have complained to Aviva Insurance Limited about the way a claim they made 
under their home emergency cover has been dealt with.
What happened
Starting in September 2020 Mr and Mrs V experienced ongoing problems with their boiler 
which resulted in periods with no heating or hot water, and ultimately resulted in a new boiler 
needing to be installed.
Mr and Mrs V had HomeServe insurance cover and are unhappy with the level of service 
they received and the way in which their claims under the cover were handled over a period 
of time.  HomeServe managed the claims handling service, but the policy is provided by 
Aviva  which is why this complaint is made against Aviva. In this decision, I will refer to 
Aviva and HomeServe interchangeably.
In the course of this complaint a considerable amount of information has been provided 
about what happened and the communications between Mr and Mrs V and Aviva.  Ive 
reviewed and taken everything into account but have set out a brief overview of some of the 
key dates and interactions below.  In the interests of brevity, I havent included everything, 
but have focussed on some of the information which sets the general chronological 
background.
On 26 September 2020 Mr and Mrs V had no heating or hot water in their home.  Mrs 
V called Aviva to claim under her cover. She was told that an engineer wouldnt be 
able to come out until 2 days later.
Mrs V was unhappy with the time it would take for a callout and asked to speak with 
a manager.  She explained that Mr V had health issues and was vulnerable.  There 
were missed calls between Mrs V and a manager the next day, but Aviva did manage 
to assist Mrs V to carry out a self-fix and offered to provide heaters (which were 
declined).  So, Mr and Mrs V were without heating and hot water for one night.
On 24 October 2020 the boiler was serviced, and it was noted that it was noisy but 
working.  On 30 October Mrs V contacted Aviva as the noise had gotten worse.
An engineer was sent out to look at the boiler on the same day, but Mr and Mrs V 
were unhappy as no-one rang ahead of the visit.  Given Mr Vs health and concerns 
around the covid pandemic at the time, they had concerns about someone coming 
into their house without being prepared.  I also note the engineer didnt have 
everything needed and had to use WD40 that belonged to Mr and Mrs V to oil the fan 
and stop the noise.
On 2 December 2020 an engineer was called out again to inspect the heating system 
and found sludge in the water tank.  He collected water samples to be sent away and 
tested, but on 24 December 2020 Aviva confirmed that the samples had been lost.  
New samples had to be collected on 28 December 2020.
On 3 January 2021 Mrs V again contacted Aviva as the boiler was leaking  but 
asked for a different engineer to come out than had visited previously.
On 4 January 2021 a different engineer visited Mr and Mrs Vs home and found a 
fault with the boiler which meant that it was beyond economic repair and needed 
replacing.  Aviva offered Mr and Mrs V temporary heaters, but they were declined.
On 5 January 2021 Mr and Mrs V received a parcel labelled as an isolation valve, but 
in fact containing temporary heaters.  Though Aviva had already authorised a 
payment of £90 for Mr and Mrs V to source their own heaters.
Under the terms of their cover, Mr and Mrs V were told that they would need to make 
a £500 contribution towards the installation cost of a new boiler.  Mrs V asked what 
make and model the new boiler would be, but Aviva wasnt able to confirm until the 
£500 deposit had been paid.
On 7 January 2021 a surveyor visited Mr and Mrs Vs home to carry out an 
inspection in preparation of a new boiler being installed.  He also noted that there 
would likely be additional work required such as a fitting a new gas run and pump  
as the old boiler was 22 years old and the fittings outdated.
Mr and Mrs V were told the boiler options on 8 January 2021.  Mrs V explained that 
they were unhappy about having to pay a £500 contribution and believed the different 
engineers whos looked at the boiler had caused the problems and damage.
On 22 January 2021 Mr and Mrs V informed Aviva that they had arranged for the 
boiler to be replaced privately.  They had also cancelled the HomeServe cover.
Mr and Mrs V had no heating or hot water between 8 January and 22 January 2021.
Aviva reviewed Mr and Mrs Vs complaint and upheld it. It accepted there had been delays 
and customer service failures (including the loss of the water samples).  It made an offer of 
compensation for £462.50  being made up of £350 for the service failings and a goodwill 
payment of £112.50 to reflect what it would have had to pay out if the replacement boiler had 
been sourced through it.
Mr and Mrs V didnt accept Avivas offer and referred their complaint to this Service.  They 
asked for the compensation offered to be increased to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
to them, along with reimbursement of some of the boiler installation costs they incurred.
Once of our investigators reviewed everything and recommended the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld.  She concluded that Aviva hadnt dealt with Mr and Mrs Vs claim well but 
considered the offer it had made was fair and reasonable overall.
Mr and Mrs V disagreed and responded clarifying a few points.  In summary, they said:
The delay with the boiler was as a result of HomeServe  its customer service was 
awful.
There are incomplete records of engineer visits and telephone calls  and the 
available call recordings should be listened to.HomeServe should have noticed and done something about the banging noises 
sooner. In October the they said it wasnt just the fan and would need replacing soon 
 but not immediately.  Theres no record of that on their system.
Photos were taken by engineers but have never been provided.
There was evidence of a water leak before January 2021.
The replacement boiler that Aviva was going to arrange for installation only came 
with a two-year warranty  which is less than standard.
Aviva made is difficult to cancel the policy and continued to collect premium 
payments and correspond about the cover after it should have been cancelled.
The investigator considered the additional information but wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind.  As no agreement could be reached, it was requested that the complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman for a fresh review and to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached much the same conclusion as the investigator  
and Ill explain why below.
I should start by saying that I understand this has been a distressing and frustrating matter 
for Mr and Mrs V.  The service provided by HomeServe was not of the standard which Mr 
and Mrs V were entitled to expect  and I appreciate the impact of this was compounded by 
Mr Vs health and concerns around covid.
Aviva has accepted there were failings in some of the dealings Mrs and Mrs V had with 
HomeServe  including the delays when the water samples were lost in the post.  In view of 
that, I think the offer it made of £350 is fair and reasonable. In deciding this Ive noted:
The policy was designed to provide home emergency cover and understandably Mr 
and Mrs V were keen to get the issues resolved quickly.
On each occasion a call was made to HomeServe, an engineer was made available 
to attend within a reasonable timeframe.  I do understand that Mr V is vulnerable and 
concerns about the impact of having no heating or hot water  but I havent seen 
anything which shows there was an obligation under the policy for more urgent call-
out timeframes.
Whilst there were times when Mr and Mrs Vs boiler was not working and they were 
without heating, I think Aviva acted reasonably in offering temporary heaters, and 
ultimately providing payment to Mr and Mrs V to source their own heaters.
It would have been unsettling to receive an unsolicited parcel that was incorrectly 
labelled and to receive a visit from an engineer without advance warning. 
Some of the interactions between Mr and Mrs V and Aviva have not been fully 
recorded.I agree the level of customer service and inconvenience experienced by Mr and Mrs V was 
poor.  Given everything which has happened, Ive no reason to doubt what they have said in 
that regard.  I note theyve insisted that the telephone calls between it and Aviva are 
reviewed, but as I already accept their version of events, I dont consider that necessary in 
this case.
Cost of running temporary heaters
Aviva provided temporary heaters (or paid funds to Mr and Mrs V so that they could source 
their own).  In their complaint, theyve expressed concern about the cost of running those 
heaters whilst the boiler wasnt working.
Im satisfied this point is covered in the policy terms and conditions, and cant say its an 
unreasonable provision:
If you have no source of heating, two temporary heaters will be delivered to your 
home The running cost of these heaters are not covered.
Replacement boiler
Ive considered the concerns raised by Mr and Mrs V that the failure of their boiler might be 
because of the work undertaken by one or more of the engineers called out from 
HomeServe.  Ive not seen anything to suggest that and on balance consider it very unlikely.  
Mr and Mrs Vs boiler was 22 years old and had several issues requiring engineer callouts.
I understand Mr and Mrs V were unhappy with the requirement to pay £500 for towards a 
replacement boiler, but I consider this to have been a clear term of the policy also:
5.  If upon making a claim your boiler is deemed to be Beyond Economic Repair, or 
the parts required to repair your boiler are obsolete, we will arrange for HomeServe 
to source, replace and install a new boiler.  However, if the boiler is aged 7 years or 
over you will be required to pay a contribution of £500 in addition to any excess. 
Given the age of Mr and Mrs Vs boiler, its clear that this term applied, and a £500 
contribution was required.
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs V were dissatisfied that any replacement boiler would only 
come with a two-year warranty and so considered it would likely be of low quality. Whilst I 
understand this point, I also note it would have been replacing an old boiler with no warranty 
 and I cannot reasonably interfere with Avivas commercial decision about the level of 
warranty to offer.  However, I am satisfied the same terms apply to all HomeServe 
customers and so I cant say Mr and Mrs V would have been treated unfairly in that regard.
In any event, Mr and Mrs V didnt opt for a replacement boiler through their insurance cover, 
but instead arranged for the installation of a replacement privately.  They were entitled to do 
that, but Aviva is under no obligation provide recompense for that action.  However, I do note 
that it offered £112.50 as already detailed above.
Policy cancellation
Aviva has acknowledged there was an administrative error following Mr and Mrs V 
requesting cancellation of their policy.  In particular, Mrs V recently sent details of a mailing 
that was sent out by Aviva in error.  The mailing didnt form part of Mr and Mrs Vs original complaint to Aviva, but it has since 
looked into this issue and responded to Mrs V confirming it was a computer-generated letter 
issued to some previous customers in error.  Whilst I understand it must be frustrating for Mr 
and Mrs V to have received that letter given the ongoing problems, I dont consider it 
material to the outcome of this complaint and am satisfied Avivas explanation was sufficient 
reassurance.  So, I dont direct Aviva to do anything more in relation to that issue.
Summary
Ive considered everything and for the reasons set out above Im satisfied Avivas offer is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances, but also recognises the poor service provided to Mr 
and Mrs V.  I realise there are some specific instances referred in the course of this 
complaint which I have not mentioned in this decision, but I have considered them and I 
dont consider them material to the outcome.
I realise Mr and Mrs V are likely to be disappointed with my conclusions, and I understand 
they were hoping for Aviva to do more.  But I must reassure them Ive reviewed everything 
fully and impartially and my conclusions are based upon what I feel is fair and reasonable 
overall.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint against Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Whilst I agree that Aviva failed to provide an adequate service to Mr and Mrs V, but Im 
satisfied the offer of compensation it has already made is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman