DRN-4515688
The complaint
Mr J complains that UK Insurance Limited, trading as Direct Line, did not fairly settle his 
motor insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr J held a fully comprehensive motor insurance policy with Direct Line. His car was 
damaged and he made a claim on his policy. 
Mr J says Direct Line decided his vehicle was a total loss and it offered to settle the claim by 
paying the market value of the car. It said the car would have been worth £12,995 at the 
date of loss, but there was some pre-accident damage on the car. It then deducted £105 for 
the pre-existing damage. After a further deduction was made because of the excess, Direct 
Line offered to pay £12,690 to settle Mr Js claim. 
Mr J says there was a delay in Direct Line dealing with his claim and he had to purchase a 
wheel at a cost of around £1,000 to make the vehicle roadworthy. Direct Line agreed to 
cover the cost of this wheel, but payment was not sent to Mr J until January 2023. 
Mr J did not accept Direct Lines valuation and so he made a complaint. Direct Line said that 
it thought its valuation was fair. However, it recognised that it should have covered the cost 
of the wheel earlier than it did and it offered to pay £200 to Mr J to compensate him for that 
delay. 
Mr J then complained to this service.  Our investigator considered the matter but didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. She consulted some valuation guides and thought Direct 
Lines valuation was fair. She said that the £200 already paid was fair compensation for the 
delay Mr J experienced. 
Mr J did not accept our investigators view. He said that due to the unusual nature of his car, 
the only similar replacement vehicle was advertised for sale at £15,000. He said the guides 
our investigator had considered related to auction prices and did not show a fair valuation of 
his car. 
As Mr J did not accept our investigators view, the matter has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr J will be disappointed with my decision, but I havent upheld his complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
The terms and conditions that apply to Mr Js policy say that where Direct Line has decided it 
is not economical to repair his vehicle, it will settle the claim by paying the market value of 
the car at the date of loss. Market value is defined in the policy as the cost of replacing Mr 
Js car with another of the same make and model, and of a similar age and condition at the 
time of the loss. 
I can see that when Direct Line valued Mr Js car, it consulted two valuation guides, which 
showed valuations of £11,995 (Guide 1) and £11,310 (Guide 2) respectively. However, 
Direct Line then looked to see whether there were any similar vehicles for sale. It says it 
found a similar car to Mr Js on the market for £12,995. It then based its valuation on the 
advertised price of the similar car. 
It isnt the role of this service to value Mr Js car. Instead, we look at whether Direct Lines 
offer was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Assessing whether an offer was fair 
isnt an exact science. Like most insurers, this service often finds valuation guides 
persuasive. Thats because the valuations are based on nationwide research. As a service, 
we generally consider the valuation guides to be helpful in showing likely selling prices at the 
month of loss. 
As well as considering the two valuations obtained by Direct Line, our investigator consulted 
another two guides and obtained the following valuations: Guide 3 - £13,179; and Guide 4 - 
£12,570. Looking at the valuations that were obtained by Direct Line and our investigator, I 
can see that they are based on the correct model, specification, age and mileage as Mr Js 
car. The correct date of loss has also been entered. 
I know Mr J was concerned that the valuation guides only showed the prices of cars at 
auction. But I understand the valuations set out in the guides obtained by Direct Line and our 
investigator show the likely retail value.  
I can see that Guide 4 shows a number of similar vehicles that were for sale at around the 
time of Mr Js loss. The vehicle with the closest mileage to Mr Js car was for sale at 
£13,890. This vehicle had 75,999 miles on the clock whereas I understand Mr Js mileage 
was 107,298. Id usually expect a car with lower mileage to be valued at a higher price than 
the same car with higher mileage. Taking account of the difference in mileage, I think this 
shows the value of Mr Js car would have been similar to Direct Lines valuation. 
Direct Line provided us with the advert it relied on to settle Mr Js claim. The advert shows a 
car for sale at £12,995. Im satisfied that this vehicle is the same make, model and age as Mr 
Js. The mileage is 98,000 miles, which is similar to the mileage on Mr Js car. 
I know that in response to our investigators view, Mr J said he understood the only similar 
car that was advertised for sale at around the date of loss was for £15,000. I havent seen 
the advert Mr J refers to, but for the reasons Ive set out above, at the date of loss, Im 
satisfied there were cars for sale that were similar to Mr Js for less than £15,000. 
Putting all the evidence together, I am satisfied that that Direct Lines valuation is at the 
higher end of the valuation guides and is in line with a similar car that was advertised at 
around the time of loss. It follows then that I find it was fair for Direct Line to base its 
settlement on a valuation of £12,995 at the date of loss. It was also fair for Direct Line to 
make a small deduction for pre-accident damage on the vehicle. I dont require Direct Line to 
take any further action here. 
Ive also looked at the delay Mr J experienced in waiting for Direct Line to cover his outlay to 
get his vehicle roadworthy. It took Direct Line until January 2023 to release a payment to him 
for this. I can see how the delay here would have caused Mr J some frustration. But as our 
investigator said, I think the £200 Direct Line has already offered is fair compensation for 
this. 
Overall, Im satisfied Direct Lines valuation is fair and that it has fairly compensated Mr J for 
the delay it caused. It follows then that I dont require Direct Line to take any further action 
and I havent upheld the complaint. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about UK Insurance Limited, trading as Direct Line. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman