DRN-4226543
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money she paid for replacement 
windows which she didnt receive from the merchant.
What happened
In early 2021, Mrs K was seeking replacement windows. She sought personal 
recommendations and was pointed to a company (which Ill refer to as W) that offered to fit 
bespoke windows.
She obtained a quote and was happy with the initial contact she had with W. She decided to 
proceed and paid the initial 25% deposit  an amount of £4,750. Mrs K made this payment 
by Faster Payments bank transfer from her Lloyds account. 
W visited her property and measured up, and everything seemed to be progressing as 
expected. Mrs K was told shed need to pay the next instalment of 25% when the 
manufacturing of her windows was about to begin.
Subsequently, W emailed with an invoice for this second instalment, and Mrs K made the 
payment accordingly on 4 October 2021, again in the sum of £4,750. 
The next contact Mrs K received was an email from W in January 2022, saying it was 
entering administration. Her windows were not delivered or installed. Mrs K along with other 
customers in the same position began to think W may have been fraudulent in nature.
Mrs K reported what had happened to Lloyds. Initially it accepted her view that shed been 
the victim of a scam. Lloyds attempted to recover her money from the beneficiary account. 
However, nothing remained to be retrieved.
However, Lloyds has since explained to Mrs K that it believes she has a civil dispute with W. 
In other words, it doesnt consider she was the victim of an Authorised Push Payment scam 
(APP scam). Because Mrs K had paid W by bank transfer, the protections that would apply 
against breach of contract or misrepresentation if shed paid by card werent available. And 
because this hadnt been established as an APP scam, the CRM Code (which can offer 
protection against APP scams) simply didnt apply. Lloyds couldnt help and didnt consider it 
was liable to refund Mrs K.
Mrs K pointed out that some years earlier, Lloyds had closed her credit card account due to 
a lack of use. Shed clearly not been able to use that card to make payment instead of bank 
transfer. She disputed that W had been operating legitimately.
Mrs K referred the matter to our service, but one of our Investigators didnt uphold her 
complaint. They sympathised with the situation Mrs K now found herself in but agreed with 
Lloyds that the matter was a civil dispute rather than an APP scam, so the bank had no 
obligation to provide Mrs K with a refund. It had been entitled to close her credit card 
account through lack of use.
Mrs K disagreed. She thought there was evidence to suggest that W hadnt been operating 
legitimately when shed paid it. She had lost a significant sum to W and needed her bank to 
cover the loss shed suffered.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the situation Mrs K is in. She has paid a considerable sum and 
received nothing in return. 
It seems hard to argue other than that W has breached its contract with Mrs K and she has a 
claim against that business as a creditor. But Im not deciding a dispute between Mrs K 
and W  I dont have any power to look into a complaint about W. My role is limited to 
deciding the dispute between Mrs K and her bank. 
Of course, Lloyds didnt contract with Mrs K for the window installation work she wanted 
done, and I cant hold the bank responsible for any breach of contract or other failings 
on Ws part. As a starting point in law, Mrs K is responsible for payments shes instructed 
Lloyds to make for her. Unfortunately, theres little protection available for bank transfer 
payments, as these were.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) 
does provide some protection to victims of APP scams. But it excludes private civil disputes. 
Simply put, in order to find Lloyds was somehow liable to Mrs K under the CRM Code, Id 
need to find that the evidence was strong enough to show this had been a deliberate 
criminal scam from the outset rather than it being a private civil dispute between Mrs K 
and W.
The question therefore, is whether the evidence demonstrates that W was most likely acting 
fraudulently when Mrs K made one or both of these payments - deliberately setting out to 
deceive Mrs K into making these payments whilst never having intended to supply or fit the 
windows as agreed. That also requires that I can exclude, on the balance of probabilities, the 
alternative possibility that this is simply a matter of W breaching its legitimate contract with 
Mrs K.
Put another way, that means deciding whether the available evidence shows it is most likely 
that W set out to defraud Mrs K with criminal intent. That is a high bar to meet.
Its important to note that it isnt for Lloyds to investigate W, neither does it need to prove that 
W wasnt operating fraudulently. It is for Mrs K to provide evidence to support those 
allegations. While Mrs K has provided evidence showing that the work was not completed, 
this could be consistent with W having been a failed business, as much as with W never 
having intended to complete the work when the payments were made.
The evidence I have seen suggests W had been trading for at least five years, apparently 
legitimately. This is reflected in the personal recommendations Mrs K says prompted her to 
use the company  that would seem unlikely if W had been consistently failing to fulfil its 
agreements. W appears to have failed a few months after Mrs K made her second payment. 
After entering administration I understand that some concerns about potential fraud were referred to the Police and to the Insolvency Service, but I am not aware that either has 
decided to pursue the investigation.
All considered I simply cant safely conclude that W took Mrs Ks money without ever having 
the intention of carrying out any of the work. The evidence available to me simply isnt 
enough to support such a finding. 
I realise how frustrating and disappointing this answer will be. Mrs K has lost a lot of money 
as a result of Ws failure to complete the agreed work. But I cant exclude the possibility that 
W entered the agreement in good faith, intending to fulfil the work (as it appears to have 
done previously for other customers) and then was unable fulfil the agreement due to the 
unanticipated failure of the business or some other reason. The evidence doesnt allow me 
to conclude its more likely than these alternative possibilities that W intended to steal 
Mrs Ks money from the outset and never had any intent of fulfilling the arrangement in full or 
in part. 
I appreciate Mrs Ks point that she might have paid using her Lloyds credit card had it not 
been closed by Lloyds some years prior. But I note that Ws invoices state clearly that they 
request payment by bank transfer. There seems to me a good chance that Mrs K would 
therefore have chosen that payment method even had her closed credit card account still 
been available to her. Even if not, and if Mrs K had insisted on paying W by card payment, 
that could have been effected by use of her accounts debit card  and that would have 
afforded the possibility of recourse under the chargeback scheme. All taken into account, I 
dont find I can fairly hold Lloyds to blame for Mrs Ks choice to pay by Faster Payments 
bank transfer.
That means that I cant fairly hold Lloyds responsible for the loss suffered here by Mrs K. 
The bank did what it could to try to recover her funds, although none remained. In saying 
that I dont underestimate the impact this whole matter has had on Mrs K  I am sorry she 
has lost out through no fault of her own. But its simply the case that I cant fairly tell Lloyds 
to pay her the money shes lost, because I dont think Lloyds has treated her unfairly or was 
otherwise at fault here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman