DRN-3613123
The complaint
Miss O and Mr G complain about the mortgage borrowing arranged for them by TSB Bank 
plc (previously Cheltenham & Gloucester). Mr G has let us know he has no interest in this 
complaint and that Miss O should solely receive any compensation payable in relation to it. 
Miss Os complaint has two broad areas  how the mortgage was arranged when it was 
initially taken out and changes to it in the years soon after; and that the charge over her 
property wasnt removed when the mortgage was repaid in 2014. 
I have already decided Miss Os complaint in relation to her mortgage borrowing has been 
brought out of time, and so this decision only concerns the removal of the charge over her 
property.
What happened
Miss O repaid her mortgage in 2014. In 2021, Miss O was sorting out her affairs  arranging 
a will - and as part of that process she made enquiries of TSB as to how it would be known 
her mortgage had been repaid. She was directed to the Land Registry. 
She was informed that TSB still held a charge over her mortgage and so she got back in 
touch to arrange for it to be removed. However, despite following up this wasnt done until 9 
March 2021 when Miss O chased again, and it was removed the same day. 
Miss O complained to TSB about the charge not being removed when the mortgage was 
repaid, and the length of time taken to finally get it removed. She had been going through a 
particularly difficult time in early 2021 and wanted to ensure her child was provided for. 
TSB said it had explained it would take 21 working days for the charge to be removed but 
also agreed it had done something wrong by not removing it in 2014. It offered Miss O £200 
compensation. Not happy with that Miss O asked us to look into it. Our investigator didnt 
think £200 went far enough to compensate Miss O for the distress and impact this error had 
and so she asked TSB to increase compensation to £350. 
TSB didnt agree saying it had already taken into account Miss Os circumstances when 
making the offer. Miss O also didnt agree with the outcome, particularly as when chasing 
TSB they removed it the same day and that she was never told it would take 21 working 
days for the charge to be removed. She considers £800-£1,000 to be more appropriate 
compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss O has provided information to this office about her personal circumstances. Although I 
havent repeated that here, I would like to reassure her that I have read and considered 
everything provided and taken it into account when reaching my decision.  Ive also listened 
to the calls she had with TSB that it had available about this matter.   
Miss O was in the process of writing a will to ensure her child was provided for. And it was 
whilst making those arrangements that it came to light TSB still retained a charge over her 
property despite her repaying her mortgage in 2014, some seven years earlier.  
I can understand how distressing it must have been for Miss O to discover that; particularly 
given the steps she was taking at the time. It not only caused Miss O a lot of worry about 
what might have happened had she passed away in the intervening years, but also what 
time and trouble her child might be put to in the future if they wanted to sell the property. 
From listening to the calls, it appears Miss O visited a branch about this. And it was during 
an internal call from the branch that a time frame of 21 working days was given for the 
removal of the charge, although it was felt this would be done sooner given it was urgent. 
Miss O tells us she was never given this time frame, but I can understand why the complaint 
investigator assumed it had. Ordinarily I wouldnt find 21 working days to remove a charge to 
be unreasonable. 
However, Im mindful the charge had been in place incorrectly for seven years. And it was 
only as a result of the actions Miss O was taking, that the error came to light, otherwise it 
might have remained for far longer. And although it appears there is a typical time frame for 
a charge to be removed  whether or not Miss O was aware of that  it doesnt appear the  
matter was treated with any urgency, nor was it completed within 21 working days either. 
Indeed, it was only as a result of Miss O calling on 9 March 2021, that the complaint handler 
took it upon themselves to arrange for the removal of the charge immediately.  This does 
beg the question of why it couldnt have been done sooner. 
Not only was Miss O impacted by the initial discovery that a charge remained over her 
property, but she was caused further distress and inconvenience by having to chase to get 
its error rectified. And when it was, it was done in a matter of minutes. TSB could have 
avoided causing Miss O additional distress had it done that as soon as the matter was 
raised. I therefore agree with the investigator that £200 doesnt go far enough to compensate 
Miss O for the trouble she was put to and find £350 overall (to include the original £200 offer) 
to be more reflective of the impact its error had.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I uphold this complaint and I require TSB Bank 
plc to pay Miss O £350 in total, for the impact its error in not removing its charge had. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman