DRN-3566741
The complaint
Ms R complains about a home emergency policy (boiler cover) that she says British Gas 
Services Limited set up without her consent. 
Any reference to British Gas includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to Ms R and British Gas. I wont repeat in  
detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the 
reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
In December 2021 British Gas offered free boiler cover to Ms R. Theyve said that some 
issues were identified during the migration of data on their systems and, as a customer 
service gesture of good will, they offered Ms R (and other customers) free boiler cover for 12 
months.  
Ms R has said she was unaware a policy had been set up in her name until 22 December 
2021. She was unhappy and asked British Gas to cancel the policy. Ms R felt shed been 
mis-sold the policy as it had been added without her consent. 
She complained to British Gas who offered her £30 for any inconvenience caused. Ms R 
referred her complaint to our Service for an independent review, but our investigator didnt 
recommend that British Gas needed to do anything further. As Ms R didnt accept the 
investigators recommendations, the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
A large part of this complaint is about how the boiler cover came to be set up in Ms Rs 
name. Im satisfied by the explanation that this cover was offered to some customers 
(including Ms R) in good faith - as a good will gesture. But any issues relating to data 
protection, or how Ms Rs data was processed would be best dealt with by the relevant 
regulator - the Information Commissioners Office - rather than our service. That said, our 
Service can still consider whether Ms R has lost out overall as a result of the actions of 
British Gas. I will return to this point later in my decision
British Gas have shown us a copy of the core contents of (what theyve told us) was an 
email sent to Ms R on 14 December 2021 offering the cover. This document doesnt have a 
header with details such as the time the email was sent and to which address. Ms R 
disputes receiving it and our investigator has also shared it with Ms R. It outlined that this 
cover was free for 12 months, some information about the policy  including that it wouldnt 
auto renew and what Ms R should do to opt out of the policy.
As is often the case with emails, messages can end up in junk or spam folders and be 
missed by the recipient. But even in a scenario where Ms R didnt receive this email, I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude that this policy was mis-sold - as alleged by 
Ms R. 
The policy was offered free of charge for 12 months with no auto-renewal  so I dont 
conclude there was any financial loss for Ms R  even if I were to have concluded that it was 
added without her consent. 
When Ms R contacted British Gas (after receiving a letter on 22 December 2022) they 
promptly cancelled the policy and offered Ms R £30 for any inconvenience caused.
Im satisfied that British Gas treated Ms R fairly and reasonably. As the £30 offer was made 
prior to our Services involvement and is in Ms Rs favour, its not something Id seek to 
interfere with, but I wont be directing British Gas to increase their offer.
Summary
As outlined previously, any issues surrounding the handling of Ms Rs personal data would 
be best dealt with by the Information Commissioners Office. 
What I have considered has been the impact of the actions theyve taken on Ms R. Overall in 
the specific circumstances of this case, Ive seen no supporting evidence that the actions of 
British Gas in offering a policy free for 12 months to Ms R has caused her to lose out or that 
they need to do anything further to put things right. 
I acknowledge that my decision will likely disappoint Ms R, but it brings to an end what our 
Service in trying to informally resolve her dispute with British Gas  can do for her.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman