DRN-3043346
The complaint
Mr I complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to refund a transaction that he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr I had a dormant account with Lloyds that hed recently asked to be re-opened. Once this 
was done, Mr I received a new debit card. Mr Is salary was paid into the account and a few 
days later hes said that he was shopping for a present for a close relative and entered his 
debit card details into a website. Shortly after he noticed a payment from his account to a 
betting company that he didnt recognise. Ill refer to the betting company as K.
Mr I notified Lloyds and Action Fraud about the unrecognised transaction. He thought his 
card details might have been compromised when he entered them into the shopping website 
and he told Lloyds he didnt have an account with K. Lloyds looked into the transaction and 
found that Mr I was using his online banking account at the time of the disputed transaction 
and would likely have seen this payment leaving his account because it reduced the balance 
considerably. They thought that Mr I was responsible for the transaction and declined to 
make a refund. Lloyds also noted that a payment from K had been received into Mr Is 
account the day after the outgoing disputed transaction. The account showed that Mr Is 
salary funded the payment to K and there was no other use of Mr Is debit card.
Mr I was unhappy with how Lloyds had dealt with his issue and made a complaint. It was 
again looked at by Lloyds who didnt change their position and Mr I then brought his 
complaint to our service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our 
investigators who thought it was reasonable for Lloyds to hold Mr I liable for the payment.
Our investigator thought that there was no evidence of the card details being compromised 
and it was unusual for stolen card details to be used on a gambling site. She also noted that 
Mr I was logged in to his online banking throughout the period that the disputed transaction 
took place.
Mr I disagreed with the outcome and explained that he thought he hadnt been given enough 
time to respond to the investigators review. Mr I also said that he disputed the fact that he 
had an account with K and hadnt had any history of gambling. He also disputed that he 
noticed the transaction when he was logged on to his online banking.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Mr I complained that he hadnt been given opportunity to put his side of the story or provide 
evidence. I asked Mr I for further information about his complaint, but he didnt provide this 
after we gave him a number of opportunities to do so over the previous two months. So, Ive 
made this decision based on the information I do have.
Mr I denied authorising the transaction to K and the relevant law surrounding authorisations 
are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The basic position is that Lloyds can hold Mr I 
liable for the disputed payment if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he 
made it or authorised it.
 
Authorisation is made up of two parts. Authentication and consent. Authentication is usually 
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, Lloyds have supplied evidence that 
shows the correct card details and the three-digit security number where entered to 
complete the transaction and Im satisfied the evidence shows the disputed transaction was 
authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Lloyds and Mr I agreed to operate the account to allow 
Lloyds to make payments on Mr Is behalf. For example, Lloyds terms and conditions set out 
that if a payment is arranged through the use of the card details, then Lloyds accept that the 
instruction to make the payment is authorised by the account holder. So, because the 
correct card details where used to confirm the transaction - Im satisfied that consent was 
given and the disputed transaction was authorised. But, there are exceptions where it 
wouldnt be appropriate for Lloyds to hold Mr I responsible, for example if his card details 
were used without his permission.
Mr I said he didnt make the transaction and thinks his card details were used fraudulently 
when he entered them into a shopping website. Ive examined the transaction log for Mr Is 
debit card and theres no record of any entry from the shopping website referred to by Mr I. 
But, this doesnt necessarily mean he didnt enter his details onto a website, just that nothing 
was recorded by Lloyds. So, its possible that his card details were taken at this point, but I 
dont think its likely when viewed against the other information Ive examined.
K operate a closed loop system for receiving/sending payments. This means that if there 
are pay outs to be made, theyll pay it to the same account it was made from. So, in this 
case, any winnings from K would go back to Mr Is card and theres a payment of £110 
received by Mr I the day after the disputed transaction. Mr I has suggested this was a 
payment from a fraudster to cover up the disputed transaction, but I dont think thats likely.
Any payments from K  such as the £110, would only go back to Mr I, which would seem to 
miss the point of stealing the card details in the first place. If the fraudster had also been 
able to take over the account to give them access to the online banking details, then using 
someone elses funds for gambling would be more understandable because theyd be able 
to control the account, but theres no evidence that Mr Is account was taken over by a 
fraudster. And if a fraudster had Mr Is card details as hes suggested, then there are easier 
methods of using the card to steal Mr Is funds. There are no records of other attempts to 
use the card details which I would also expect if it was a fraudster using the debit card 
details to take as much from the account as quickly as possible, before the theft was 
discovered. So, I dont think an unauthorised third party was responsible for making this 
transaction.
Mr I was using his online banking during the time the transaction was being made. The 
records show he logged on to it about ten minutes before it was made and logged off about 
five minutes after. The transaction took place after midnight and I think it likely that the online 
activity was linked to the disputed transaction. Mr I said payments dont necessarily appear 
straight away on the online banking system, which is why he didnt notice it. But, I think the timing of the payment and the online banking is suggestive of a link that Mr I more than likely 
was responsible for making the transaction. 
The payment made to K was made after Mr I received his salary, and this left a few hundred 
pounds in the account. This suggests that whoever was making the transaction knew that 
there were funds in the account and had an idea what the balance was. As Ive already 
made a finding that I dont think an unauthorised third party had access to the account, I 
think its more likely than not that Mr I was responsible for making the payment to K. 
Mr K said that he didnt have a history of gambling, but when Ive examined the account 
notes from when the account was first opened  they contained a reference to high levels of 
gambling. I appreciate this is some time ago, but it does indicate that Mr I was associated 
with gambling in the past.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr I was responsible for 
the transaction hes disputed and its reasonable for Lloyds to hold him liable for the 
payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman