DRN-1664631
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr M says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I explain why below.
I think Capital One made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. I explain why I say this. 
The PPI was sold during a telephone call during which the card was activated. Capital One 
told us it does not have a copy of the telephone call and thats not surprising given the call 
happened nearly ten years ago. But Ive had regard for the script the representative was 
supposed to follow. That suggests that the representative was only to attach the PPI to the 
credit card with the express consent of the consumer, having asked in a way that made it 
clear the consumer had a choice in the matter. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy would cost. But he chose to take 
out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time it seems he was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And Ive considered 
that Mr M told us his sick pay was paid at his full rate for only six months if he was off work 
through ill health, after which it would have dropped significantly. And Mr M told us he had 
no other means he could have relied on in that event, or if he lost his job. So as this policy 
could have paid out for up to 12 months in that event, or if Mr M lost his job, I think the policy 
would have been useful to him if something went wrong. 
So I dont think better information about the PPI and its cost would have put Mr M off taking 
out the cover.
I have looked at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given by 
the adjudicator, and set out above, I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Capital One 
doesnt need to refund everything Mr M paid for it. But Capital One has already offered to give Mr M back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman