DRN-1049085
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
alongside a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G applied for a mortgage in August 2000, and at the same time applied for a PPI 
policy. The policy covered both of them, and insured them for half their mortgage costs if 
either of them lost their job or were off work sick. The policy started in September 2000. Mr 
and Mrs G think the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at Mr and Mrs G's complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. Mr 
and Mrs G didn't agree. The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I've taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs G's case.
I've decided the PPI wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr and Mrs G didn't have to buy the policy and that they 
chose to take it out. The mortgage application gave them the choice to apply for or decline 
the cover, and they completed a separate application form.
As Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, it had to check it was right for 
them. Based on what I've seen of Mr and Mrs G's circumstances at the time, I think it was.  
They weren't affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - and they seem 
to have had a need for the cover. While I recognise that Mr and Mrs G got some sick pay 
from their employers, this policy would paid half their mortgage related costs for up to a 
year if either of them were off work sick or lost their job for more than 60 days - which is 
longer than they say they'd get their full sick pay for.
It's possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
should have been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I don't think better information about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover.
This means Lloyds doesn't have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G:Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs G about this. Because Lloyds didn't tell 
Mr and Mrs G that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
I've thought about everything else Mr and Mrs G have said. But these points don't change 
my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold - Lloyds Bank PLC doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I don't award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman