DRN-3038125
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) unfairly recorded a 
default on his credit file. He would like this removed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
Halifax sent Mr C numerous letters over the course of 2018 and 2019 advising him 
his account was overdrawn and asking him to get in touch to agree a repayment 
plan. From the customer notes I cant see that Mr C responded to these letters. In 
October 2019 Halifax sent a formal demand letter requesting the full balance of 
£1,547.46 be paid off within 60 days. The notice advised that if full payment wasnt 
made within two months Halifax would close the account and might put a default on 
Mr Cs credit file. As full payment wasnt made the account was closed and default 
applied in December 2019.  I dont think this was unreasonable. I feel Halifax gave 
Mr C every opportunity to make good his account and to warn him of the possible 
consequences of not doing so.
I appreciate the subsequent refund to Mr Cs account, applied in March 2021 
reduced his balance by £879.17. Halifax explained that this was down to an 
automated account review, but it feels the charges, whilst refunded, were fairly 
applied in the context of what Mr C told the bank at the time.
I dont accept Mr Cs point that if the charges refunded had never been applied, he 
would have paid off  the outstanding balance on demand therefore avoiding the 
default. We have no evidence of this. Mr C would still have owed over £600 but he 
only made payments totaling £130 to his account when asked to pay off the balance..
Mr C has told us the default has impacted on his ability to get a mortgage but  has 
given us no evidence of this. But even if he had its important that credit files 
accurately reflect account history and I think Halifax correctly applied the default
As I dont feel Halifax has done anything wrong, I cant reasonably ask it to remove 
the default as Mr C would like. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman