DRN-2290535
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage that, until recently, Mr and Mrs W held with Barclays 
Bank UK Plc. Theyre unhappy that Barclays renewed the attached secured overdraft facility 
after theyd consolidated a previous balance into the mortgage. Mr and Mrs W think this was 
irresponsible, and are asking for a refund of the interest they were charged on the overdraft.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary (in my own words and rounding the figures 
involved) and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Mr and Mrs W took a mortgage with Barclays in 2002; it came with a mortgage current 
account (MCA) which had an overdraft facility. Mr and Mrs W had made extensive use of the 
overdraft facility, but in 2007, they took out a further advance on the mortgage to repay the 
MCA, various other credit card debts and carry out home improvements. The MCA remained 
in place, however, and in subsequent years, Mr and Mrs W began using the overdraft again.
Mr and Mrs W fell behind with the mortgage payments and in 2017, Barclays obtained a 
suspended possession order (SPO) to formalise a payment arrangement. In 2019, 
Mr and Mrs W complained that the MCA shouldnt have been kept in place after theyd 
already repaid it once. Then, in 2020, Mr and Mrs W arranged an equity release mortgage 
and repaid the Barclays mortgage and MCA overdraft in full.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs W have asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Having done so, I fear I must disappoint Mr and Mrs W all over again. I say this because I 
have come to much the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same 
reasons.
I think there may be a misunderstanding on Mr and Mrs Ws part about what happened in 
2007. They didnt take out a new mortgage to replace the one they started in 2002. They 
simply took a new interest rate product on the 2002 mortgage and then a further advance 
that ran alongside the original. So the mortgage and further advance that are the subject of 
the complaint, and which were repaid in 2020, both derive from the original 2002 contract, of 
which the MCA is a compulsory component. 
Mr and Mrs W made use of the MCA facility, cleared the balance in 2007 from the further 
advance they took out, but for the reasons Ive explained above, the MCA facility remained 
in place. But although the MCA is a compulsory component of the mortgage, using it is not 
compulsory. 
Mr and Mrs Ws usage of the MCA for a second time was documented in the regular 
statements that Barclays sent them showing them how much of the facility they have used 
from time to time. It was their choice to make full use of the MCA again, so its fair and 
reasonable that they be charged interest for doing so in accordance with the contract terms.
Mr and Mrs W have spoken about how Barclays increased the limit on the MCA; in one 
sense it did, but not in a way that increased Mr and Mrs Ws overall debt or debt exposure. 
That was set in 2007 when the bank agreed the further advance. Barclays assessed the 
overall amount of debt that it considered was responsible to provide to Mr and Mrs W; the 
difference between that sum and the debt they already had in the form of the mortgage and 
further advance balances was set as the ongoing facility limit on the MCA. 
With both the mortgage and further advance being capital repayment loans, the balance on 
them gradually fell. Under a system called re-balancing, the MCA facility rose by a 
corresponding amount, but the overall debt limit remained the same. 
Taking an overview of everything that happened, I dont find that Barclays was wrong to 
leave the MCA in place following the 2007 further advance. And of course, once 
Mr and Mrs W had made fresh use of the MCA up to its limit, it would have been difficult for 
Barclays to intervene and remove or reduce the limit once they got into wider difficulties. All 
that would have done is leave the business open to a charge of unfair treatment of 
consumers in hardship.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman