DRN-2413038
The complaint
 Miss H complains that it took too long for Monzo Bank Ltd to send her a replacement bank 
card.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. 
Monzo upheld Miss Hs complaint. In its final response letter, it accepted that it hadnt 
provided Miss H with the level of service she should have received. It apologised and paid 
Miss H £60 compensation. Unhappy with the response Miss H referred the complaint to us.
Both Miss H and Monzo subsequently explained that since issuing its final response, Monzo 
had also agreed to refund fees incurred on another account Miss H had had to use while she 
was unable to use a debit card on her Monzo account. This amounted to £53.57. But Miss H 
says this refund didnt include a £15 cash withdrawal fee she incurred. And she felt the £60 
compensation was too low to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
extended delay and the amount of times she had to contact Monzo.
Monzo explained that it had also waived £90 (3 x £30 per replacement card) in fees that 
Miss H would have normally incurred for requesting a card to be sent abroad. So, it felt its 
overall redress of £203.57 was fair.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Hs complaint and he thought Monzo needed to do 
more to put things right. He didnt think a payment of £60 fairly reflected the time and 
inconvenience Miss H had suffered in having to repeatedly chase Monzo for a replacement 
card. He recommended that Monzo should pay Miss H an additional £105  which included 
increasing the inconvenience payment from £60 to £150 (£90 extra) and a refund of the £15 
cash withdrawal fee Miss H had incurred.
 
Monzo disagreed. It said that the problem with the first replacement card wasnt its fault. It 
pointed that Miss H had ordered the card on her banking app and so the use of a PO BOX 
address (the underlying problem here) wouldnt have been picked up during an automated 
process. But it recognised that this also wasnt spotted when its staff ordered the second 
replacement card. So, it did agree to offer an additional £30 on top of what it had already 
paid.
The investigator didnt agree. So, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo has not disputed it couldve handled the second replacement card request better than 
it did and that the service Miss H received fell short of what she should have received. So, I 
dont need to make a finding on this point.
What I need to consider is the issue around the ordering of the first replacement card and 
what overall is fair redress given all the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I 
agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
The problems surrounding the issue of a replacement card come about because it came to 
light that a PO BOX address is not acceptable when sending cards abroad. So, Ive thought 
carefully about this this. 
And I acknowledge that Miss H ordered the first replacement card using an automated 
process on the banking app. But Ive not seen anything that would make me think that 
during the process of ordering a replacement card in this way, it was highlighted to Miss H 
that a PO BOX delivery address was unacceptable. Nor did Monzo spot the problem when 
Miss H initially entered into a conversation with it via its chat function to discuss the fee for 
sending cards abroad. 
Had it done so, I think its most likely Miss H wouldve given a different postal address. I say 
this because this is what Miss H did when it was eventually bought to her attention that a full 
residential address was required on the third replacement card request. I dont think it is fair 
to hold Miss H responsible for providing a PO BOX address when it was no highlighted to 
her that such an address was unacceptable.
In addition, Monzo did not pick up on this issue when Miss H was contacted it again - when 
the first replacement card did not arrive and when a second replacement card was ordered 
by a member of staff. Miss H was also promised tracking details for the cards which were not 
supplied. 
The underlying problem was not identified until Miss H made a formal complaint. So, overall, 
I think Monzo was responsible for the delays and inconvenience Miss H experienced in 
receiving a replacement card. 
Miss H first requested a card on 10 May 2020 and she finally received a card  after the third 
attempt on 12 July 2020. I think this timeframe is much longer than should reasonably be 
expected the execute a standard banking account request. So, I agree with our investigator 
that £150 more fairly reflects the delay and inconvenience Miss H experienced  which is an 
increase of £90 on what Monzo has already paid.   
I note Monzo waived the fees it would normally charge for sending a card abroad. But as 
only one card was successfully delivered, like our investigator, I only think Monzo was 
entitled to charge one fee and I think its reasonable this was waived given the circumstances 
around why a replacement card was needed. 
Miss H had to use an alternative account while waiting for her replacement card. As a result, 
she incurred transaction charges totalling £53.57 as the alternative account incurred charges 
when used abroad - which she wouldnt have incurred if shed used her Monzo account. 
Monzo has already refunded these charges. But Miss H also incurred a £15 cash withdrawal 
fee which she wouldnt have incurred had she had access to her Monzo account. So, I think 
its fair that this should be refunded too. 
 Putting things right
Monzo Bank Ltd should pay Miss H a further £105 compensation for the issues he 
experienced in getting a replacement credit card as detailed above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd should take the action set 
out above to compensate Miss H for the distress and inconvenience she was caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman