DRN-3095141
The complaint
Ms K complains that Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith) avoided her car insurance policy and 
refused to pay her claim. She also complains about not being kept updated about her car. 
What happened
Ms K used a comparison website to purchase a car insurance policy from Zenith which 
started in December 2019. A few months later, Ms Ks car was hit by a third party while it 
was parked and unattended. Ms K reported the incident to Zenith and they deemed the car a 
write off but also decided to void the policy. Ms K complained about this and about the lack 
of communication received from Zenith about the next steps. 
Zenith responded and said Ms K hadnt provided accurate information about her occupation 
and, had she done so, they wouldnt have offered her a policy. They said, as the policy has 
been voided, they are unable to deal with Ms Ks claim. Zenith accepted they didnt inform 
Ms K about the next steps regarding her car after they told her the policy had been voided. 
They also accepted there had been delay in dealing with her complaint. Zenith apologised 
and offered compensation of £200.     
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Ms K and Zenith on 7 September 2021. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Voiding the policy 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For 
it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered 
the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless.
Zenith thinks Ms K failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when, at inception of the policy, she disclosed her occupation as an Event Organiser, 
but didnt disclose that she also had a secondary occupation as a student. 
Zenith say a student isnt an acceptable occupation under the policy criteria and 
therefore they had to void the policy. Zenith say, the comparison website gave Ms K 
the option to disclose a secondary occupation. And, had they known Ms K was also a 
student, they wouldnt have offered her a policy. 
Ms Ks Statement of Insurance notes her full-time occupation as Events Organiser 
and under part-time occupation, it says N/A. It also says, It is an offence under the 
Road Traffic Act to make any false statement in order to obtain a certificate of motor 
insurance. You are required by the provisions of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure 
and Representations) Act to take care to answer all questions honestly and to the 
best of your knowledge. Failure to supply accurate and complete answers may result 
in your policy being cancelled or treated as if it never existed, or your claim rejected 
or not fully paid. Your policy will be based on the answers provided on this statement 
of insurance. Your answers will influence the acceptance and assessment of your 
policy.  
Theres no dispute here that Ms K was a student at the time she took out the policy 
or that she didnt disclose this when taking out the policy. Ms K says she was working 
as an Event Organiser but was also studying two days a week. Ms K says she wasnt 
aware a part-time student would be classed as a second occupation. And, she says 
she didnt use her car to attend classes as she used the train. 
  
The first point Ive considered is whether Ms K took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. Ive been on the comparison website and the first question in the 
Your occupation section asks for the consumers employment status. There are four 
options here, Employed, Self-employed, Full-time education (student) and More. 
By clicking the More option, another box appears which includes a drop-down list  
but I cant see any of the options on this list apply to Ms K. Theres a question mark 
highlighted in this section which provides help and clarity to answer this question. It 
says, Please choose the employment status that reflects the majority of the work 
you do. For example, if you are a house person and have a part time job of 5 hours a 
week, you should select House person/parent as your primary job. 
Ms K appears to have selected Employed and this then brings up another box which 
asks for the consumers main occupation. Ms K appears to have then entered 
Events Organiser in this box. 
This section also asks the consumer whether they have another occupation. Theres 
a box beside this which says, If you have two jobs, please enter the occupation you 
spend most hours at and the other as the secondary occupation. I should add, both 
the main occupation and another occupation box appears to work on the basis of a             
pre-defined list of occupations, for example, when typing in Events, a box appears 
underneath with a list of occupations which contain the term Events. Consumers 
then have to choose from this list as opposed to having the flexibility to type the full 
occupation. Ms K hasnt then made any reference to being a part-time student. Ive 
tried typing Student into the main occupation and another occupation box but a list 
doesnt appear which allows a consumer to select Student. 
Zenith say Ms K shouldve selected Full-time education (student) and then a second 
box wouldve appeared asking her to confirm what type of student she is, and she 
shouldve entered Mature Student  Living At Home. And then, in the section which 
asks if she has another occupation, she shouldve entered Events Organiser. Ive 
tried this and this does allow for both Student and Events Organiser to be 
recorded. But Ms K says she wasnt a full-time student and was studying two days a 
week  so entering Full time education (student) wouldnt have been accurate. 
So, Ive looked at Ms Ks circumstances to see whether she could reasonably have 
been expected to answer the questions in the way Zenith have described. I can see Zenith ask Ms K for evidence she was employed as an Event Organiser but 
she explains shes unable to as shes paid cash in hand and doesnt have a contract. 
Ms K has provided our service with payslips which appear to relate to an events-
based role. But, both are weekly payslips for March 2019  which is nine months 
before the policy was taken out. One payslip shows Ms K worked just under nine 
hours that week, and the other shows she worked around 32 hours during the week. 
While this doesnt demonstrate Ms K was working in this role when she took out her 
policy, it shows she was working an average of 20 hours a week in this events-based 
role.  
Weve also asked Ms K to provide our service with evidence of the course she was 
enrolled on and it being part-time. Ms K has provided a payment timetable for a 
tuition fee loan for the academic year 2019/2020. This shows the course as 
Business Management  extended degree with the total tuition fees for the 
academic year as £9,250. Theres no mention of the course being part-time so Ive 
been on the relevant Universitys website and this shows the fees for the full-time 
version of this course being £9,250 per year. So, in the absence of any information to 
prove otherwise, Im persuaded Ms K was enrolled on a full-time course.     
So, given that Ms K was a student on a full-time course, I think Zeniths suggestion 
for how Ms K shouldve entered the information is reasonable. Firstly, it wouldve 
allowed both employment statuses to be recorded and, given the evidence Ive seen 
about Ms Ks course being full-time, it wouldnt have been unreasonable for her to 
select Full-time education (student) even if she was only required to attend two days 
a week. So, I think the questions, together with the explanatory material, were clear 
and specific. I therefore dont think Ms K took reasonable care when answering the 
questions about her occupation.   
Theres been a misrepresentation here but an insurer will only be entitled to take 
action if its a qualifying misrepresentation in accordance with CIDRA. So, Ive now 
considered whether the information provided by Ms K amounts to a qualifying 
misrepresentation. 
The next point Ive looked at is whether the misrepresentation actually made a 
difference to Zenith. In other words, if the information Zenith received had been 
accurate, would they have offered the insurance policy at all or only on different 
terms - including whether they wouldve charged more. 
Zenith say a student is an unacceptable risk based on their underwriting criteria. And, 
had this been disclosed by Ms K when applying for the policy, they wouldnt have 
offered cover. Zenith have provided evidence of a risk calculation using their 
underwriting guide where they have included Ms Ks status as a student. And, this 
shows the outcome as Decline. So, Im satisfied the application from Ms K, if she 
had entered details of being a student, wouldve led to Zenith declining to offer Ms K 
a policy.  
         
So, taking this information into account, I think Ms K has made a qualifying 
misrepresentation. I can see Zenith believe the qualifying misrepresentation was 
careless and Im minded to agree. Zenith have also provided evidence which shows 
they wouldnt have offered a policy. 
So, I dont think they have acted unreasonably in voiding Ms Ks policy from 
inception, refusing to deal with her claim and refunding her premium. Zenith have 
paid Ms K the £60 salvage value of her car which I think is reasonable.   
Customer service The key facts about this part of the complaint arent in dispute. Zenith have admitted 
they got things wrong when they didnt update Ms K about the process involving her 
car following their decision to void her policy. And, they accept there had been delays 
in dealing with her complaint. The only issue I have to decide in respect of this part of 
the complaint is whether the amount of compensation theyve offered is fair and 
reasonable.
I think its right that Zenith compensate Ms K for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by their poor service. Not being told about the next steps involving her car 
caused Ms K further frustration and worry at a time when she was already upset at 
being told her policy was voided. I feel its reasonable for Zenith to pay compensation 
to reflect the frustration and worry caused to Ms K. I think the £200 paid to Ms K is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
So, subject to any further comments from Ms K or Zenith, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to not uphold this complaint. 
Following my provisional decision, neither party has provided any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, Ive decided not 
to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and copied above.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman