DRN-2044709
The complaint
Mr G complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly refused cover for a claim under the 
legal expenses section of a Home insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
In early 2020, Mr G made a claim on his policy to cover the legal fees of pursuing a building 
contractor for breach of contract.
Aviva instructed one of its panel firms of solicitors to consider the claim. And it was the 
solicitors professional opinion that Mr Gs claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of 
success on the evidence available. They also had concerns over proportionality and 
prospects of recovery. As these are specified requirements for cover under the policy, Aviva 
declined the claim.  
Mr G wasnt happy with Avivas decision so brought a complaint to our service. But our 
investigator didnt uphold it. She said Aviva were entitled to rely on the legal advice it 
obtained. And without further evidence or a supportive legal assessment, she was satisfied 
Aviva had declined the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms. 
As Mr G didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is a requirement of Mr Gs policy that any intended claim has a reasonable prospect of 
succeeding and that its proportionate to pursue from a financial perspective. These are 
common requirements in all the legal expenses policies Ive seen. For civil cases it means 
the policyholder will, on the balance of probabilities, recover losses or damages or obtain 
any other legal remedy Aviva has agreed to, as assessed by its preferred law firm.
These policy terms arent unusual, and we dont think theyre unfair. Court action can be 
expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely 
to succeed or that they will recover less than the legal costs incurred. I dont think it would be 
reasonable to expect a legal expenses insurer to either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, we look at whether the insurer has 
acted fairly. So long as they have obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont 
generally question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or 
based on factual mistakes. Aviva did this. And the panel firms advice is that Mr Gs claim 
doesnt have reasonable prospects of being successful. 
The panel solicitors explained in a detailed and non-legalese way to Mr G the actions he 
should take in order to show hes mitigated his losses. They also explained what expert 
evidence he needs to obtain in order to evidence his claim, and why. The policy says that Mr 
G will need to provide as much information as possible to support his case and this includes 
expert reports, as well as estimates. Here the lawyers required Mr G to provide an expert 
report at his own expense and explained why. I appreciate Mr G doesnt agree but I havent 
seen anything to persuade me that Aviva shouldnt rely on the advice it has obtained from its 
panel firm because it was obviously wrong or factually incorrect. Rather it was up to Mr G to 
obtain a contrary legal opinion on the merits of his claim, at his own cost. If he does this and 
such an opinion is supportive, then Aviva should consider his claim again.
In the absence of a supportive legal assessment, Im satisfied Avivas decision to decline the 
claim was fair and Im not asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman