DRN-2840021
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about a bike insurance policy with Hiscox Underwriting Limited.
What happened
Mr A took out the policy with Hiscox on 7 April 2020. Mr A made a claim under the policy on 
14 May 2020, as he said his bike (worth £4,000) had been stolen. 
Hiscox asked Mr A for proof of purchase of the bike and for other information. Mr A 
complained that Hiscoxs queries were unreasonable, and that they were taking an 
unreasonable amount of time to settle his claim. Mr A says he had complied with all of
Hiscoxs requests and it was unfair that Hiscox continued to ask for further information.
Hiscox considered Mr As complaint and provided a final response letter on 3 June 2020. It 
said it still required the further information and evidence, concerning the purchase and 
ownership of the bike, and could not meet the claim at that stage. Hiscox made Mr A aware 
that it had several concerns about the claim for the stolen bike, which Ive summarised 
below: 
Mr A said in the claim form that the bike was stolen on 4 May 2020 but later said it 
was stolen on 11 May 2020.
In a call about the claim on 20 May 2020, Mr A said he had bought the bike on 4 May 
2020, paying three/four instalments with cash withdrawn from his current account. 
but he could not recall the date of the instalments. 
When asked for evidence of the cash withdrawals, Mr A said he had paid £1,000 for 
the bike because he bought it from his cousin, who owed him money. Then he said 
he had not paid his cousin but had worked unpaid for his cousin in lieu of payment for 
the bike. He also said as he worked in construction, he had lots of cash, so had not 
needed to withdraw the money from his bank account. 
Mr A also admitted that the invoice hed submitted dated 15 April 2020, confirming 
that £4,000 had been paid for an unspecified bike, purporting to be from his cousin 
as the seller of the bike, had been prepared by him. 
A photograph Mr A provided as evidence of his ownership and possession of the bike 
(which he said was taken on his own phone) was in fact taken from an online advert 
for the sale of the bike. It had contacted that seller who confirmed the photograph 
provided by Mr A was taken by him and he still had possession of the bike. The seller 
provided it with other pictures of the bike. It had asked Mr A for a copy of the original 
photo, so it could verify it was taken by him but he has not done so. 
Mr A also provided handwritten receipts dated 2 March 2020 for £320 for the bike 
saying £680 left to pay; one dated 10 March 2020 for £340; and one dated 13 April 
2020 for £340. So these suggest that a total of £1,000 cash was paid for the bike. 
Hiscox asked Mr A for an explanation about these matters. It also informed him it was 
unlikely the claim was covered anyway, as he had said the bike was locked with the lock 
through the rear wheel and frame of the bike but the policy requires that any bike be locked 
to an immovable object while being left away from the policyholders home. 
Hiscox subsequently issued a second final response letter to Mr A, in which it said that as he 
had not been able to explain the inconsistencies raised, it considers he was attempting to 
claim for a bicycle that he did not own. As such it is entitled to terminate the insurance policy 
with effect from the date of the claim. 
Mr A is very unhappy with this. He has made a number of points, which Ive summarised 
below: 
there is not enough evidence to say he has made a fraudulent claim. 
He was asked for an invoice for the bike, so he provided a sellers invoice and a 
buyers invoice/receipt. He couldnt find the original receipt so provided one to show 
what he paid for the bike. 
The person he bought the bike from, was not answering his calls so he cant get 
more evidence form him. 
He has provided everything he has been asked for but he keeps being asked for 
more information. 
He disagrees with the testimony of the seller of the bike that Hiscox says was using 
the same photo he provided of the bike. He says there are lots of scammers on 
online sale sites and he could be the person that stole his bike. Or, the photo could 
be the same by coincidence.
Mr A says he will take court action, if his claim is not paid. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he was satisfied that Hiscoxs actions had been reasonable. 
Mr A doesnt accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
While we were considering this complaint, Mr A lodged a second claim on 26 June 2020 in 
relation to personal injury and accidental damage to a second bicycle. The second claim was 
the subject of a further complaint, which I have dealt with in a separate decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is for a claimant to establish their claim. This means in the context of this case that Mr A 
has to prove that he owned and possessed the bike for which he is claiming as well as that 
he suffered a loss covered by the policy. There are specific terms in the policy which reflect 
this but even if there were not, this is a matter of general insurance law. 
So in order to be satisfied that Mr A owned this bike, Hiscox asked him to provide evidence 
in relation to that. Mr A said he had bought the bike recently and produced various evidence 
about the purchase. However, the April 2020 invoice is printed and bears Mr As company 
name and email address, so is clearly an invoice he has issued. It is dated 15 April 2020 and 
confirms that £4,000 was paid on 4 May 2020 for the bike. 
The crime report states the bike was stolen at 15.06 on 4 May 2020. 
The second invoice Mr A provided is on a pro forma printed page but with the details 
handwritten onto it. This purports to be from a different company name (with the same 
second name as Mr A, so I assume this is his cousins name). It again states that £4,000 has been paid for a bike. It says sold as seen and the invoice and the signature are both dated 
15 September 2020. 
He has also said he paid £1,000 in cash for the bike, in three instalments and provided  
handwritten receipts for this. Two of these pre-date the April 2020 invoice. 
None of these invoices/receipts are enough to prove Mr A bought the bike he is claiming for. 
He has also not provided evidence of any cash payment for the bike (such as bank 
statements) or evidence that he worked the payment off for his cousin instead, as claimed. 
Mr A has provided a number of different accounts as to how he acquired the bike and how 
much he paid for it and when. All are inconsistent with each other and there is no 
independent evidence to support any one of them. I dont find Mr As explanation as to the 
differing accounts convincing. He says he only bought the bike shortly before the claim, so it 
would be reasonable to expect him to have a clearer recollection of the purchase details, in 
my opinion. 
Mr A also provided a photo of the bike he is claiming for. He has not provided a copy of the 
original photo, which he says he took on his phone. He is asking Hiscox to accept that an 
identical picture is on an advert for sale by coincidence, or the person advertising the bike 
might be the one that stole it from him. This does not however explain how that person also 
stole the photo from Mr A. 
Overall there is no convincing evidence that Mr A owned the bike being claimed for and so 
there are no grounds to require Hiscox to meet the claim. 
It is also difficult to come to any other conclusion, in the face of this evidence, than that Mr A 
made a claim for a bike he did not own in order to make a financial gain to which he is not 
entitled and as such has acted fraudulently.
Fraud is basically a dishonest act or omission made with a view to obtaining pecuniary 
advantage or some other benefit to which the fraudster is not entitled. Where a claim is 
established to be fraudulent, or exaggerated, the insurer is entitled to refuse the claim and 
cancel the policy from the date of the fraudulent act. Its entitled to keep the premium paid. 
Again, the policy terms reflect this legal position. I am satisfied, having considered all the 
evidence, that Hiscox is entitled to terminate the policy with effect from the date of the claim. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021. 
Unless Mr A accepts my decision, it has no legal or binding consequences and does not 
prejudice his right to take court action. 
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman