DRN-4072347
The complaint
Miss M complains that a mistake on her mortgage account with Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax prevented her from taking a new interest rate on her mortgage.
What happened
Miss M took out her mortgage with Halifax in around 2012, moving to her current property in 
2017. She was on a fixed rate which was due to end in late 2022.
In April 2022, conscious her rate was due to end, Miss M got in touch with Halifax. She was 
told that her rate ended at the end of November 2022, and that the earliest she would be 
able to book a new rate was the beginning of September  as Halifax told her it allowed 
customers to book new rates 90 days before their old one expired.
In August 2022 Miss M took some advice from mortgage brokers about moving her 
mortgage, but couldnt find a deal she was happy with. So in September she got in touch 
with Halifax to see what it had available. 
Miss M wasnt able to log in to manage her mortgage online, so rang Halifax on 21 
September. She had difficulty passing security because Halifax had her residential address 
recorded as different to the mortgage address. Miss M says she is in fact living at the 
mortgaged property, and thinks there may have been an error on Halifaxs part around the 
time she moved house (porting her mortgage) in 2017. 
Miss M says the Halifax adviser she spoke to told her that the only way this could be 
corrected was for Miss M to log into her online account and change her address. Miss M 
explained she was having difficulty accessing her online account. So the adviser told her she 
would need to go to a branch with two separate identity documents.
Miss M says this wasnt easy for her to do, because she doesnt live or work near a branch 
and couldnt easily attend one during working hours. As this was at a time when interest 
rates were increasing, she was concerned that any delay would result in her losing out on a 
better deal. So she complained. 
Two days later, Miss M spoke to a Halifax complaints manager who corrected her address 
on its systems. She said that she had had three days of stress and uncertainty and didnt 
know if shed be able to get a new interest rate. She said Halifax told her that her address 
had been changed in April 2022  she said she hadnt changed it, so she was worried that 
someone had accessed her account without her authority. Halifax offered £150 
compensation, and said it would ensure she was able to take an interest rate that was 
available on 21 September.
Miss M says shes not happy with that. She says she was put to considerable worry and 
stress and £150 doesnt reflect that. She says shes since checked her credit records, and 
her credit score was high up to April 2022 but has been dropping since then. Shes 
concerned that Halifax might have been reporting wrong information about her. And she 
says that these problems meant she wouldnt have been able to move her mortgage to 
another lender, leaving her tied to Halifax. 
Miss M says that on 21 September Halifax had rates available, but they were higher than 
shed seen with other lenders in August and early September. Those rates are no longer 
available. Miss M says that to put things right Halifax should extend her previous rate of 
2.47%, which expired in November 2022, for the next five years  or, alternatively, it should 
compensate her for the difference between the rate it had available and the 0.8  0.9% lower 
rates she says she could have got with other lenders. 
Having reconsidered matters after Miss M complained to us, Halifax offered to increase the 
compensation to £300, and confirmed it would still allow Miss M to take an interest rate that 
was available on 21 September 2022, backdated to 1 December 2022 when her previous 
rate ended. It said those rates were 4.06% over two years, 4.02% over five years and 3.68% 
over ten years. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The problems in this case stem from a change Halifax made when it amended Miss Ms 
correspondence address, and the impact that had on her ability to pass security when she 
called Halifax on 21 September to arrange a new mortgage interest rate.
This had a particular impact in this case, because not only were interest rates rising 
generally in the second half of 2022, but there were particular increases following a change 
to Bank of England base rate on 22 September and the governments mini-budget on 
23 September. The result was that available interest rates rose substantially immediately 
after Miss Ms call on 21 September. 
Halifax says Miss Ms address was updated in April 2022. Its aware of a system issue where 
if an existing customer consults a mortgage broker about moving property, Halifaxs 
correspondence address can sometimes wrongly update to the proposed new property. 
When Miss M first complained, Halifax told her it thought that might have been what caused 
the problem with Miss Ms address on its systems.
But Miss M says that she hadnt spoken to a broker in April 2022. She did speak to one in 
August, but that was to look at mortgages at other lenders not Halifax, and she wasnt 
moving home. So this didnt explain how her address had been amended  and so she was 
very worried that someone seemed to have accessed her account and changed it without 
her knowledge or consent.
We asked Halifax to investigate this further. It explained that when Miss M contacted Halifax 
to ask about her rate in April 2022, a note had been made on its systems. Miss M actually 
had two customer profiles on the system (which covered all of the Lloyds Banking Group)  
one with this mortgage and a product with another firm in the group, which had her current 
address. The other profile was linked to the old mortgage shed paid off in 2017 and a bank 
account, and still had the old address on it. Following the contact in April 2022, the system 
merged the two profiles, taking the old address rather than the new one. This resulted in all 
Miss Ms records now being linked to the old address, including the mortgage at the new 
address. 
Im sure it was very upsetting for Miss M, and very concerning, to discover that Halifax had 
changed the address associated with her mortgage without her knowledge or consent. But I 
dont think it quite had the consequences that she says it did.Miss M says that her credit score dropped over this period  from 934 in April to 791 in May. 
She is worried thats connected to the issue with her address with Halifax and would have 
prevented her from moving her mortgage elsewhere. She says that as a result she was left 
trapped with Halifax  that it has, as she puts it, monopolised her custom.
I havent seen any evidence that Miss Ms credit score dropped at this time, though I see no 
reason to doubt what she says. 
But  for several reasons  I dont think that the Halifax address problem would have had 
any impact on the mortgage rate Miss M was able to obtain in any event.
Firstly, a credit score is a number calculated by each of the separate credit reference 
agencies separately. Each has their own methodology, and the same credit record can 
produce different scores from each agency. I dont know which agency Miss M uses, or how 
it calculates its notional credit score. And I havent seen Miss Ms wider credit file. Its 
possible that if Halifax also reported the new correspondence address as a new associated 
address that may have had an impact on her score. But Halifax says her address recorded 
at the credit reference agencies didnt change at this time. And its also possible her credit 
score changed for some other unrelated reason. 
Secondly, a credit reference agencys credit score serves no practical purpose. When a 
lender checks a credit file it looks for things like payment history, total amount of outstanding 
credit, record of applications for other credit, time at address, and so on. A credit score is 
an estimate by the credit reference agency of how the underlying credit file might look to 
lenders. But its not seen by or taken into account by the lenders themselves. Lenders 
produce their own assessments of a credit file when someone applies for new lending.
So even if Miss Ms credit score  as produced by the credit reference agency  had 
dropped, that doesnt mean that a lender faced with an application from her would have 
treated that application any differently than it did before. Its likely a lenders own view of any 
application would only be treated differently if there was some change to Miss Ms underlying 
creditworthiness, such as a missed payment or a substantial new amount of credit being 
taken out.
Thirdly, I dont think its likely that Halifaxs error would have had any impact on Miss M 
getting a mortgage elsewhere. An error in Halifaxs internal systems with the 
correspondence address it held for Miss M would not be something any other lender was 
aware of or have been influenced by. If Halifax didnt just record the (incorrect) new 
correspondence address on its systems but also told the credit reference agencies that 
Miss M was associated with a new address that might well have been picked up on a new 
lenders credit check. But its not something that would have led another lender to 
automatically reject an application, and if queried Miss M would have been able to show that 
she was in fact living at the mortgaged property and would have been able to get the error 
corrected by Halifax quickly. 
In this case, the error was resolved within two days, and I see no reason why Halifax 
wouldnt also have corrected it quickly if Miss M had complained following an application to 
another lender rather than an application to Halifax. So while Miss M says she didnt apply 
elsewhere because she was worried the error would stop her re-mortgaging, I dont think 
that in fact it would have done. 
Fourthly, Miss M told us that she did consider moving her mortgage elsewhere. She 
consulted two separate brokers in August, before getting back in touch with Halifax in 
September. So before she knew of the error, shed already decided to remain with Halifax in 
any event  and it follows that it wasnt the error that forced her to stay. Im therefore satisfied that, as of 21 September, Miss M had considered shopping around 
and had either decided to stay with Halifax or had not yet decided to apply anywhere else. 
She says that one of the brokers she contacted hadnt got back to her  but Halifax isnt 
responsible for that. And Im also satisfied that its unlikely the address issue would have 
prevented her applying to another lender had she decided to do so, either before or after 
21 September. I dont therefore agree that its fair to say that Halifaxs mistake trapped her 
with Halifax or allowed it to monopolise her custom.
Miss M says that she was disappointed with the rates available on 21 September and 
thought other lenders had more competitive rates. And they may well have done. 
But even if Halifax had not made any error at all in this case, Miss M would still not have 
contacted Halifax until 21 September, and so wouldnt have decided to go to another lender 
after all until after 21 September. As the Bank of England increased base rate on 
22 September and the mini-budget happened on 23 September  both of which caused 
interest rates to rise across the market  the rates Miss M had seen with other lenders 
before 21 September wouldnt have been available to her after 21 September in any event.
In summary, if the address issue had never happened, I think this is what would have 
happened instead. Miss M had looked around the market but hadnt applied for anything with 
any other lender, so on 21 September she decided to see what Halifax had available. She 
would then either have accepted a Halifax rate  securing one on that day, just before they 
started increasing after the events of 22 and 23 September. Or, alternatively, she would 
have decided not to take what Halifax had available on 21 September and keep shopping 
around  and what would have been available to her then, either from Halifax or elsewhere, 
would have been much higher because of what happened in the wider economy over the 
next few days. 
If nothing had gone wrong, the only options Miss M would have had as at her call to Halifax 
on 21 September were:
Take one of the rates Halifax had available on that day; or
Decide not to take one of those rates and keep shopping around, leading to either
oGo elsewhere  and as an application to another lender would have been 
made after 21 September, take a rate higher than Halifax had available on 
21 September; or
oCome back to Halifax at a later stage having found no better rates available 
elsewhere and take a Halifax rate, which would have been higher than the 
rates available on 21 September.
Given events in the wider economy at the time, Im satisfied that because she hadnt booked 
a rate with any other lender before 21 September, there are no circumstances in which 
Miss M would have ended up with a rate lower than those Halifax had available on that day.
Im therefore satisfied that Halifaxs offer to put Miss M back in that position  to honour the 
rates available on 21 September 2022  is a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. 
It ensures she receives the best possible outcome of those that would have been available 
to her on that day had the address issue not happened.
I dont agree it would be fair to require Halifax to extend Miss Ms previous rate, which 
expired in November 2022, for a further five years. That rate has ended. An extension on the 
same terms would never have been available to Miss M even had nothing gone wrong. That rate wasnt available, and it wouldnt be fair to resolve the complaint by putting Miss M back 
in a better position than she could have expected at the time. And for the same reasons, it 
wouldnt be fair to require Halifax to refund the difference between the 21 September rates 
and the rates Miss M says shed seen with other lenders in August. Miss M didnt apply for 
those rates at the time. Had she done so, Im not persuaded Halifaxs mistake would have 
stopped such an application being successful. It wouldnt be fair to require Halifax to 
compensate Miss M for having lost out on a rate she chose not to apply for.
I understand Halifax has now implemented a 21 September rate with effect from 1 
December when Miss Ms old rate expired, and has refunded the additional interest Miss M 
paid before the rate was retrospectively implemented. I think thats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances.
Finally, I turn to whether Halifaxs offer of compensation is fair. I dont doubt that this was an 
upsetting experience for Miss M. Im sure both the mortgage problem, and the concerns she 
had about the security and integrity of her mortgage account, caused her real worry. Shes 
told us something of the impact on her health and her wider family, and Im sorry to hear of 
that. But theres no evidence of a wider security breach or any wider data protection impact, 
and Halifax resolved the substantive problem within two days. Im satisfied its offer of £150 
compensation for the initial upset, and a further £150 for not immediately being clear it would 
stand by the offer to honour the 21 September rates, is a fair offer in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Im satisfied Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax has made a fair and reasonable offer to put things right. If Miss M accepts this 
decision it should pay her £300 compensation  to include any amounts already paid  in 
addition to the interest rate it has already applied and backdated to 1 December 2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman