DRN-3257737
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about their home insurer Fairmead Insurance Limited in 
respect of how it handled a water damage claim they made to it in 2014.
What happened
On 14 March 2014 Mr and Mrs M returned home to find their house, which they lived in with 
their daughter and their dog, flooded with sewage water overflowing from the downstairs 
toilet. They called Fairmead and were told to get quotes and come back to it. 
Mr and Mrs M were unsure what to do  they began cleaning up the sewage but were 
wading round their home in wellies. They appointed a loss assessor to assist them. The 
assessor had a surveyor complete a schedule of repairs  the total cost for the work was 
estimated to be around £80,000.
At the end of April 2014 Fairmead logged Mr and Mrs Ms claim  it transpired it hadnt been 
logged when Mr and Mrs M had called it in March. Fairmead accepted it had given poor 
advice to Mr and Mrs M, and when its appointed loss adjuster visited the property in 
early May 2014, the loss adjuster confirmed the home was, and since the leak always had 
been, uninhabitable. It was noted in the report of 9 May 2014 that:
In all ground floor rooms damage has been caused to internal doors, hardwood architraves 
and skirting boards and wallpaper and these will all require replacement. The doors are 
bespoke solid mahogany. Floor and wall tiles in the bathroom, utility room and kitchen are 
showing very high moisture readings and will need to be removed and replaced. In the 
kitchen and utility room all base units have started to swell and split and will also require 
replacement.
The loss adjuster told Mr and Mrs M to arrange alternative accommodation (AA) which 
Fairmead would pay for. 
On 15 and 16 May 2014 Mr and Mrs M spoke with Fairmead  they were concerned as they 
felt they needed AA urgently. A property for lease had been found but wouldnt be available 
until 26 May and staying in the property was really affecting their health, including that of 
their dog who had sore feet. Fairmead agreed to pay for a stay at a hotel as well as the rent 
for the lease property. When Mrs M asked Fairmead about food costs theyd likely incur 
whilst staying at the hotel, Fairmead said it would usually pay £10 per adult per day.
However, during their first nights stay at the hotel, Mr M was sick in the bed. The family had 
to move home as the hotel said it would charge them for the cost of the mattress. Mrs M told 
Fairmead no other hotels would take dogs so they felt they had no choice but to stay in their 
home. Whilst Fairmead offered to pay for the cost of kennelling the dog, Mrs M said this 
wasnt an option. Fairmead confirmed it would continue to pay for their food (a disturbance 
allowance, DA) whilst they were staying in their uninhabitable home at £10 per adult per day.
On 19 May 2014 Fairmead and its loss adjuster discussed that the loss adjuster would be 
reviewing the repair scope presented by Mr and Mrs Ms loss assessor. By mid-June a 
further visit to the property to assess damage had occurred and Fairmead noted on its file 
that drying and decontamination works by Mr and Mrs Ms loss assessor were underway. 
The loss assessor said the property would be ready to reinstate in two to three weeks.
In early July Fairmeads loss adjuster told it they were still considering the repairs. It was 
noted that its estimated repair value was much lower than that stated by Mr and Mrs Ms loss 
assessor. But it was late August when Fairmead shared with Mr and Mrs M what it thought 
was needed to reinstate the property. Mr and Mrs M felt this scope was lacking  it wasnt 
allowing for a replacement kitchen, or to replace their patio doors damaged whilst contents 
were moved out of the property when the leak was found. Mr and Mrs M said they were 
appointing a microbiologist and Fairmead said it wouldnt pay for that.
Fairmead felt its scope of reinstatement was fair and, in a final response of 30 October 2014, 
told Mr and Mrs M it would pay £16,291.78 for that work. It said it would review if other 
damage needed including, such as repair of the kitchen units  but Mr and Mrs M would 
have to agree to a meeting at their home to discuss matters. It said if other work currently in 
dispute was required, that would equate to an additional £6,150. Neither sum included VAT. 
For the work that it felt was required, Fairmead said that would take around three months  
allowing for the Christmas period and any snagging issues that might arise. So, Fairmead 
said, it would continue to pay for the AA until the end of January 2015 (although it later 
extended that further to the end of March 2015). It also paid £500 compensation for the 
upset it had accepted it had cause by not dealing with the claim properly when Mrs M had 
first made it in March 2014. Fairmead noted the contents claim hadnt been made fully yet, 
but said it would review this once it was. Regarding the damaged patio doors  Fairmead 
said another claim for accidental damage would have to be made (and considered).
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy  they felt Fairmead hadnt addressed all of their concerns. 
They also felt the decision regarding the kitchen was unfair. Around this time their loss 
assessor confirmed to Fairmead that it had asked Mr and Mrs M to price the list of contents 
which had been disposed of. Fairmead reviewed its evidence and felt it may have been 
mistaken about the kitchen not needing replacing. But Fairmead noted that even if it 
accepted the kitchen needed replacing  its cost for this was still markedly below that of the 
Mr and Mrs Ms loss assessor. So Fairmead felt its decision to not review the claim 
settlement without a visit to discuss costs was reasonable and so should be maintained.
As 2015 progressed the contents claim remained unresolved and in May 2015 Mr and Mrs M 
moved from one rental property to another. The loss assessor told Fairmead that it hoped to 
submit the contents claim in September 2015. In October 2015, after several enquiries and 
chases from Mrs M, Fairmead paid for moving costs for contents and their storage up to end 
February 2015. But Mrs M noted that Fairmead had agreed for the family to stay in AA until 
the end of March. When Fairmead was challenged on this point it agreed to pay a further 
months storage costs. The contents claim remained outstanding.
The contents claim was then received in January 2016. There was a complication as the 
cost of the items claimed for exceeded the sum insured on the policy. Ultimately Fairmead 
decided to settle the claim on the basis of the sum insured (£50,000), less the deposit for the 
alternative accommodation which it had paid. This was paid in two amounts, one in 
August 2016 and one in January 2017. Mr and Mrs M said they thought items had been 
disposed of unnecessarily by their loss assessors contractor. Fairmead said that was 
irrelevant to the settlement it was making because Mr and Mrs M had been underinsured 
and it was paying the maximum allowed for by the policy.
In May 2018 Mr and Mrs M moved back to their damaged home, subsequently contacting us 
for a second time in late 2019. They detailed a host of concerns about Fairmead, the claim, 
how they felt theyd been treated and how all this had affected them. Fairmead objected to us looking at the complaint, it felt it had been made too late. But a fellow ombudsman 
determined this was a complaint we could and should consider.
Our investigator then considered the complaint. But she wasnt persuaded that Fairmead 
had done much wrong, and the £500 compensation it had paid was fair and reasonable. As 
Mr and Mrs M were disappointed by the findings, feeling their side of things hadnt been 
taken into account, their complaint was passed to me for consideration. 
I felt Fairmead had failed Mr and Mrs M  but not to the extent and for the duration 
Mr and Mrs M felt Fairmnead was responsible for. In short I said Fairmead would need to 
determine what is needed now to repair Mr and Mrs Ms home, and pay for that, along with 
paying for the patio door repair, a disturbance allowance (plus interest) and a total of £3,500 
compensation. Both parties considered my decision and responded to it. Neither totally 
agreed with what Id said or recommended. 
My provisional findings were:
Right at the very outset Fairmead failed Mr and Mrs M, and I note it accepts that. But I think 
it actually failed Mr and Mrs M three times in those first few months in respect of AA  in 
March, then in April when it appointed the adjuster, and then when the adjuster first visited 
the property. On each occasion Fairmead could (and should) have acted to get 
Mr and Mrs M out of the uninhabitable home and into emergency accommodation. But that 
only happened after further overtures from Mrs M in mid-May. By then I dont doubt the 
whole family including the dog were suffering. And I think that theres a fair chance that, if 
the hotel had been arranged earlier, Mr M would never have been sick and the family 
wouldnt have had to move back home. In the circumstances of this case I think Fairmead 
should actually have done more to assist them when the issue arose with the hotel.
I see Fairmead did start paying a DA when the family moved home, but I cant see it ever 
backdated this payment. Fairmead knew, from the outset, again in April and then when the 
adjuster visited in May, that the home was uninhabitable. And that it hadnt moved the family 
into AA. So it should always have been paying them DA. Again it failed Mr and Mrs M in this 
respect, which was compounded by it not spotting, when it agreed to pay DA after the hotel 
incident, that it should pay this on a backdated basis. 
If Fairnead hadnt failed Mr and Mrs M at the outset, leaving them to start trying to clear up 
their home, they would never, I dont think, have appointed a loss assessor. And I havent 
seen that once Fairmead became involved again, it looked to offer to take over the work for 
Mr and Mrs M. Really I think that as it knew it had put them in this position, it could have 
offered to take on the work, paying Mr and Mrs M, if necessary, to come out of any contract 
they had made with the assessor.
I think Fairmead then caused significant delays to reinstatement works. It knew the assessor 
would be ready to start reinstatement by early July. But it was only in late August when 
Fairmeads surveyor spoke to Mr and Mrs M about what he thought the reinstatement work 
should cost. I can see no good reason why it took from early May to August, or even 
mid-June (when the surveyor met the assessor) to August for those decisions to be made. 
And then further issues arose because the surveyor backtracked on the accepted position 
reached in May that the kitchen would need replacing. Further, I think Fairmead could 
always have foreseen that the assessor would likely price work differently to its own 
surveyor. Which brings me back to Fairmeads failure to really manage the position of the 
involvement of the assessor when it had finally taken on the claim in April/May 2014.
By late 2014 Fairmead knew its settlement offer was insufficient and, I think, that it had been 
wrong about the kitchen not needing replacing. But rather than try and mend that it dug its heels in about needing to attend the property and discuss the costs with the assessor. Whilst 
also adding some very strict deadlines to the payment for AA. I understand that by this 
stage, Mr and Mrs M, for a variety of reasons, had lost faith in Fairmeads ability to act fairly 
with them in the course of this claim. And I can understand their position. 
From their perspective, Fairmead had let them down at the first but then, when it had 
become involved, the claim, putting it mildly, hadnt gone smoothly. To boot Mr and Mrs M 
felt the adjuster had lied at times. I cant know that was the case  thats the type of finding 
the courts make having had the opportunity to cross examine people to determine what was 
in their mind. But if the adjuster didnt lie she definitely made some glaring mistakes, which 
were only corrected upon challenge from Mr and Mrs M. So I think their loss of trust in this 
key person in control of the claim was, in my view, reasonable. There was also an incident 
where Mr and Mrs M report the surveyor entered their home unannounced, which scared 
Mrs M. The surveyor said he cant recall the visit but recalls announcing himself before 
entering. Im not very persuaded by that account. And, as there were trades already in the 
home, I can see how a surveyor mightve felt it appropriate to enter the house in order to find 
the home owner. So I dont think hed have meant any ill intent by entering the home, without 
Mr or Mrs M greeting him at the door. But I can see why Mr and Mrs M were caused upset.
So I can see why a meeting wasnt appealing to Mr and Mrs M. And I think Fairmead could 
and should have handled things better at that point. From the correspondence Ive seen 
Fairmead seemed to deal with this in a somewhat heavy handed way, rather than trying to 
resolve the position which its own failures had led to. But I also think that as the period of AA 
that Fairmead had been prepared to pay for drew to an end in spring 2015, Mr and Mrs M 
didnt make the best choices. Fairmead paid for AA to the end of March, and Mr and Mrs M 
were still challenging its decisions at that time. So I think it was reasonable for them to think 
the situation might change shortly, meaning they could remain in the AA for a little while 
longer than Fairmead had paid for. And, in May 2015, Mr and Mrs M had to leave that house 
as it needed repair. They found another house to stay in. This was more like their own home 
in terms of space and style, but it was unfurnished and more expensive than the 
accommodation they had been living in. So they used the buildings settlement and borrowed 
money to furnish it and pay rent. As I say, I can understand a reasonable person doing that 
for a short while, but I think that very quickly it must have been obvious that wasnt a 
sustainable position. I accept that Fairmeads poor claim handling left them in a difficult 
position at the end of March 2015 and I can see that caused them to think staying away from 
their uninhabitable home was all they could do. But as the months passed; the financial 
position became more unsustainable and the situation with Fairmead wasnt progressing or 
changing. I think the reasonable thing to have done then would have been to move back 
home. Instead Mr and Mrs M remained in the expensive rental accommodation and in 2016 
and 2017, they used the contents settlement for rent too. In May 2018, with all their money, 
and savings gone, and borrowing options exhausted, they returned to their damaged home. 
If theyd returned to the damaged home earlier then they could have used the contents 
settlement to fund repairs. I fully understand that they were in a difficult position, and that 
started because of Fairmeads failures. But I dont think its reasonable to blame Fairmead 
for everything that followed in 2016 and beyond.
I dont think its fair though that, after all this time, Mr and Mrs M are still left with a damaged 
home with no way of reinstating it. As I said above, I understand why, in the first instance, 
they used the buildings settlement to fund the rental property they found. So that money has 
gone and isnt available to use on repairing their home because of Fairmeads failures. And it 
was always insufficient for reinstating the home anyway. Whilst I know it was insufficient 
because, at the very least, it didnt allow for replacing the kitchen, I dont know what a 
reasonable reinstatement sum would be. Mr and Mrs M have made reference to a report they obtained in 2014 which gave a cost 
comparison between their assessors and Fairmeads estimates. But I havent seen that. And 
Im not sure how reliable a gauge it would be of what is needed now seven years later to fix 
their home. When an estimate is out of date, I can add interest to account for changes in 
cost, but Im not sure here if more work is needed now due to delay. The best way to 
determine costs at this point would be for an independent surveyor to be appointed. 
Mr and Mrs M could pick a surveyor from a list provided by Fairmead. Fairmead would 
appoint and pay for the chosen surveyor. The surveyor, using the loss adjusters report from 
9 May 2014 as a base for knowing the minimum restoration work required, would assess the 
property and set out a scope, along with costs, for reinstatement. Fairmead would then pay 
that sum to Mr and Mrs M in settlement of their claim. This would leave them having to do 
the work themselves but, from everything Ive seen, I think theyd prefer that to having 
Fairmead do the work.  
Fairmead may think that it should get to deduct the original buildings settlement from any 
sum found due by the surveyor. And/or that the surveyor should be tasked with filtering out 
work needed due to delay in repair. But I dont think either of those things is reasonable in 
the circumstances here. My view is Fairmead handled this badly and, regardless of the fact 
that I think Mr and Mrs M could have made better choices at times, it reasonably needs to 
reinstate their home. It wouldnt be fair, in my view, for Fairmead to get to mitigate its outlay 
necessarily caused as a result of its own failure. Which, at the very heart of everything, 
tracks back to that very first and significant failure it made in March 2014 when Mrs M first 
called it to make a claim. 
I think it should also pay Mr and Mrs M to replace their patio doors. They were damaged, 
leaving the home insecure, when Fairmead left Mr and Mrs M without assistance in the 
immediate aftermath of the flood. If it had handled things properly I think its most likely this 
damage would have been avoided. I accept its been a worry for Mr and Mrs M ever since 
and I think Fairmead should have acted in 2014 to have it replaced. Ive seen a recent 
estimate for replacing this which Ill have our investigator share with Fairmead. The cost 
before VAT is £1,537.25, so I think Fairmead should pay this to Mr and Mrs M. Once they 
get the doors replaced and incur VAT, they can send Fairmead an invoice and it will have to 
reimburse the VAT element to them within 14 days of receipt of the invoice. If payment is 
made outside of 14 days, Fairmead will have to add interest* to the VAT sum and pay that 
as well.
Fairmead will also have to make a payment to Mr and Mrs M as a backdated disturbance 
allowance. Fairmead paid a disturbance allowance from the night the family stayed in the 
hotel in May 2014, which I think was 16 May. But before then the three of them had been 
living in the uninhabitable home without the benefit of an allowance. Fairmead should pay 
them £1,890 being £30 a day from 14 March 2014 until 15 May 2014 (63 days). And on this 
occasion, as I think Fairmead should have paid this to Mr and Mrs M in late May 2014, Im 
going to require it to add interest* on the total from 31 May 2014 until settlement is made. 
Im also minded to award Mr and Mrs M a further £3,000 compensation (on top of the £500 
Fairmead has already paid). This takes into account not only the distress and inconvenience 
they were caused due to Fairmeads failings, but pain and suffering too. In saying that I dont 
doubt they became sick living in the sewage flooded home for months in the spring of 2014. 
Which they tried their best to clean. I accept they were also caused stress at this time too 
which exacerbated some existing medical conditions they had. I accept they were worried 
seeing their dog suffer. I see they made countless calls to Fairmead and it delayed matters. 
It also sent mail to their home address even when it knew they were living elsewhere. Ive 
set out other failures Ive found of it above. But whilst I know Mr and Mrs M are now quite 
poorly, I cant reasonably track their current state of health back to failures of Fairmead in 
2014 and 2015. As Ive explained above, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably blame Fairmead for the very poor situation continuing over the last four years or so, which has 
undoubtedly caused them stress and impacted their health. 
  
I know the contents settlement didnt replace all their damaged belongings. But as they were 
under insured, I cant reasonably make Fairmead pay them more for contents.  
Mr and Mrs M have explained they are upset because the loss adjuster initially refused to 
give them a copy of her report from May 2014. But I can understand why the adjuster initially 
said this couldnt be shared with Mr and Mrs M. It was eventually shared and I think that was 
appropriate. But I dont think the initial refusal was unreasonable. 
The responses from the parties were:
Fairmead said:
It had always tried to resolve things amicably with Mr and Mrs M.
It feels that as Mr and Mrs M were clearly unhappy in 2015, they could have acted before 
2019 to expedite any action theyd wished to take  either legally or via this service. 
It doesnt accept that Mr and Mrs Ms ill health prevented them from furthering their 
complaint during that time, especially not when they had support from family members 
and a loss assessor acting for them.
It feels the funds Mr and Mrs M were paid by it could have been used to make their 
home habitable.
It doesnt think it should be responsible for fixing problems with the property that have 
resulted from its long-term state of disrepair.
It doesnt want to be responsible for paying current market rates for work, and wants to 
know exactly how the appointment of the independent surveyor would work.
Its worried my remedy isnt specific enough to avoid potential further dispute between 
the parties. 
It wants to have the right to further assess and validate that all the funds it paid for 
building repairs were spent on alternative accommodation  and if it determines that any 
havent been used, these should be subtracted from anything the surveyor finds needs to 
be paid for repairs.
It said if it is to consider a claim for the patio doors it needs to know how these were 
possibly damaged by the escaping water. And if it does settle it, it will want to assess 
that any payment is on a like-for-like reinstatement basis.
Regarding the backdated disturbance allowance Id said it should pay, it said it will check 
its records in case this has been paid. But, if it hasnt, it will pay this sum.
In respect of the compensation payment Id recommended, it said it felt this was steep 
given what it sees as the relevant period under consideration of April 2014 (when it 
registered the claim) to October 2014 (when it issued its final response).
Finally, it thinks some of my language was emotive and prejudicial, suggesting that, at 
times, an objective assessment had not occurred. It said my findings should be amended 
so they are objective and factual.
Mr and Mr M said:
Theyd had little choice in spring 2015 when Fairmead had stopped paying for their 
alternative accommodation  because the funds it had paid for repairing their home were 
simply not enough.
Theyd hoped to improve things with an expected quick settlement by Fairmead of their 
contents claim  which theyd then use to start repairing their home. But that took too 
long as well, with two settlements being paid by Fairmead  but each only paid following 
them having to renew the tenancy agreement for the alternative accommodation. So the contents settlements had to be spent on rent too.
Theyd had no choice but to stay away from their home, and only moved back when all 
other options were exhausted  its only right that Fairmead pays their costs for this, and 
not least as their policy allows them up to £100,000 for alternative accommodation.
They asked I set out which repairs will attract interest as they believe costs have 
increased over recent months. And the general economic climate along with the 
pandemic will likely have impacts on the work to be done as materials may be expensive 
and scarce. Further, any interest awarded would allow for any price change that is fated 
to occur on account of a delay in getting work done following the surveyors findings 
because its simply harder to get work booked in now.
They said therell need to be a delay in appointing a surveyor, as the pandemic means 
its unsafe for them to have anyone in their home. 
They believe Fairmead should pay for them to appoint a private surveyor to accompany 
the independent surveyor, as they cant be sure of the independent surveyors 
impartiality, or that their interests will be protected. 
When repairs are done, theyll need alternative accommodation and storage costs for the 
period of work Im now recommending. The repairs will be extensive, likely involving a 
new kitchen, including appliances. 
Theyd like the cost for replacing the patio doors to be reviewed by the surveyor, as they 
think the cost will have increased markedly since the estimate was produced last year.
Fairmead should also pay them a disturbance allowance for the period since they moved 
home until the repairs begin.
They want to be sure Fairmead paid them £500 previously, and when exactly this was.
Theyd like the level of compensation awarded re-evaluating; further medical evidence 
was provided showing, they say, a causal link between their living conditions and their 
poor health, along with, what they say is, a relevant case study of a similar complaint 
assessed by this service where £8,000 compensation was awarded. 
They asked for advice as to what will happen if Fairmead doesnt honour my final 
decision (if they accept it).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained provisionally that a lot had happened during the course of this long complaint and 
that I couldnt mention every instance and detail. I said that, as such, my decision would 
reflect the worst of the failings Id found Fairmead had made and reference the impact all 
that had on Mr and Mrs M. And that if there were any mitigating acts by Fairmead Id set 
them out for balance. I said Id also address any key concerns raised by Mr and Mrs M. 
I emphasized that no discourtesy was meant by any brevity  that both parties could be 
assured that I had taken into account everything theyd said and provided. And I intend to 
continue with this approach as I consider the parties responses to my provisional findings. 
Whilst Ive considered everything both parties have said, Im mindful that many of their 
objections dont raise any new issues or point to anything I didnt consider when making my 
provisional findings. For example, Fairmeads case notes were studied carefully, and I took 
on board the detail Mr and Mrs M had given about the choices theyd felt theyd had to make. 
It wont serve any purpose for me to go over old ground, so Im not going to specifically 
address each and every concern raised by the parties, even those detailed by me above. The policy term entitling Mr and Mrs M to £100,000 of cover for alternative accommodation 
doesnt automatically mean Fairmead should pay for their costs incurred. In short, Im 
satisfied that Fairmead didnt handle this claim fairly and reasonably, so I have to say what 
I think it needs to do to make up for that. But in thinking about that, and as Ive explained, 
Ive had to take into account the choices Mr and Mrs M made too. I stand by my provisional 
findings  it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to make Fairmead reimburse them their 
costs for having lived elsewhere since Fairmead stopped covering their rent in 2015. 
But Id say similarly in reply to Fairmeads objection to possibly now having to pay for repairs 
necessary because the house hasnt been repaired in the years since the claim, and at 
todays rates. Essentially, Ive found that it made choices about how to handle and deal with 
this matter  which resulted in an unfair claim settlement being made, alongside an 
unreasonable method (in my view) for remedying that. And its not reasonable, I dont think, 
given Fairmeads failures, and despite their own choices, that Mr and Mrs M should be left 
with no money, or only part of the money, necessary to reinstate their home. 
But as Mr and Mrs M havent yet paid for their home to be repaired, Im not going to make 
Fairmead add interest. Nor do I think its fair to assume delays will occur due to the 
pandemic  meaning interest should be added. 
Likewise, I dont think there should be any need to delay appointing a surveyor. I respect that 
Mr and Mrs M have concerns about the potential risk of Covid for them in meeting with 
anyone at their home. But I also accept their medical evidence which shows their health is 
being severely affected by their current living conditions. The living conditions can only 
improve if a surveyor is appointed and attends to view the damage, and that visit can be 
managed in a safe way to mitigate the potential risks of Covid. For example, I wouldnt think 
it would be unreasonable for Mr and Mrs M to expect the surveyor to wear a mask and 
gloves, and to have done a test, the results of which are negative, before visiting their home. 
So Im not going to build in any direction for a delay into my award.
My award cant be so specific as to avoid all risk of further dispute occurring in the future. 
And Mr and Mrs M can be reassured that a professional surveyor, a member of the Royal 
Institute of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), with a professional code of conduct to work to, will 
be appointed on a joint basis to consider the damage to their ground floor of their home. By 
their nature, and given their code of conduct, RICS surveyors are independent, and, on this 
occasion, I think Fairmead should assure that the list of three put to Mr and Mrs M to choose 
one from, should be a surveyor it doesnt usually work with. But I cant reasonably expect 
Fairmead to check into everyones job history to ensure they have never before worked for 
the loss adjusting business the previous surveyor appointed by Fairmead worked for. 
The appointed surveyor will need to know details of the original loss, and, as I said before, 
have regard to the original loss adjusters report. Ive quoted from that report in my 
background. If that damage has got worse due to time, that worsening will need to be taken 
into account when detailing what needs to be repaired, and at what cost. But if damage to 
the buildings has occurred that is entirely unassociated with the original loss and damage, 
that wont need to be factored in as part of the necessary buildings repairs Fairmead is 
responsible for paying for. Unless that is, its impossible to carry out the insured work without 
repairing uninsured damage too. When the surveyor has determined what needs to be 
repaired/replaced, he will need to set out costs for that work at then current rates. That 
decision will be binding on both parties. And Fairmead wont be able to deduct anything from 
the costs for money it paid to Mr and Mrs M before in settlement of the buildings (or 
contents) claim. I appreciate that it will be difficult for Mr and Mrs M to live in their home whilst repairs are 
being done. But it is difficult for them to live in their home now in the condition it is in. On this 
occasion, Im not going to require Fairmead to pay for their alternative accommodation, or 
storage of their belongings, during the period of repair. On this occasion Im satisfied that 
Fairmead should be responsible for putting their house straight, despite what its already 
paid for that  but Im also still satisfied that it isnt responsible for the whole incredibly 
difficult and unpleasant situation Mr and Mrs M are in. Ive sought to strike a balance in my 
award that reflects that, and that means that I think Fairmead paying for repairs, along with 
compensation and the other awards Ive made, is a fair and reasonable outcome here.
Im not persuaded that costs have increased that much since last year when the patio door 
estimate was obtained, so Im not going to require interest, on the estimated amount before 
VAT, to be paid by Fairmead. But if it delays refunding the VAT element when Mr and Mrs M 
present their invoice to it for payment, that VAT sum will attract interest. I note Fairmeads 
concern that it hasnt had chance to verify the estimate. But Fairmead could have looked to 
engage with Mr and Mrs M on this issue long before now if it had wanted to. And I note that 
in reply to my provisional decision, and despite what I said in my findings, Fairmead is still 
querying how the doors were damaged by the water. This is a safety/security issue and Im 
satisfied its right that funds for this work are paid to Mr and Mrs M without chance for further 
consideration being given.
Similarly, Fairmead doesnt now get to check its accounts for the disturbance allowance 
I said it should pay Mr and Mrs M for the time they spent in their uninhabitable home at the 
start of this claim. As I said, I carefully checked Fairmeads notes when making my 
provisional decision and I found no sign this was paid, or even noted as being in need of 
payment. If Fairmead had wanted to challenge my provisional decision by showing me this 
had been paid, it could have done that. But it didnt. So Ive no reason to change my award. 
Or to extend it as Mr and Mrs M have requested, to cover the period theyve been in their 
home since 2018. As I noted above, their details provided in reply, havent given me cause 
to think Fairmead was responsible for them returning to an uninhabitable home at that time. 
Fairmead has satisfied me that £500 was paid to Mr and Mrs M in late 2014, by cheque. And 
that this cheque was presented to the bank in April 2015. So Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M 
have had this payment. I know that regarding the further compensation of £3,000 Ive said 
Fairmead should pay, both parties would like me to revise that. But having carefully reviewed 
this complaint in light of the responses to my provisional decision, Im satisfied that is a fair 
and reasonable sum in the circumstances and one which is in line with other awards weve 
made in similar circumstances. The one case study Mr and Mrs M have found where a larger 
sum was recommended doesnt mean the sum Im awarding them is out of line. Rather that 
is one example, and whilst Mr and Mr M think the circumstances are similar, Im not 
persuaded that is actually the case. At the heart of everything we do is considering each 
case on its own merits  and Ive paid careful and close attention to everything that 
happened between Fairmead and Mr and Mrs M during the course of this claim. Having 
done so I remain of the view that reasonable compensation is £3,500, with £500 of that sum 
having already been paid by Fairmead.  
I appreciate that Fairmead has concerns about some of the language Ive used, and Ive 
looked at the particular instances its specified. But I stand by what Ive said in these 
respects. And Id remind Fairmead that whilst I complete an objective assessment, the 
complaint at hand may require me to consider the subjective view of the complainant about 
what happened and what harm they came to. My work also requires me to make 
determinations, given the balance of the evidence at hand, as to what is most likely to have 
happened. Im satisfied that throughout my findings, my language was moderated, using 
terms which were appropriate and necessary in the circumstances, in order to address the 
complaint at hand. It now remains for Mr and Mrs M to consider my final decision and, if they want to, to accept 
it. They should note the timeframe given for doing so. If they do accept it within the 
timeframe set, it will become binding on Fairmead in line with our usual rules. But I cant 
offer legal advice to either party about accepting, complying with or enforcing my decision.  
Putting things right
I require Fairmead to pay Mr and Mrs M:
An amount to restore their home. This to be determined by an independent surveyor, 
appointed by Fairmead but whom Mr and Mrs M have chosen from a list of three 
provided by it. The chosen surveyor, using the adjusters report from 9 May 2014 as a 
base line, will draw up a scope for reinstating the home, also determining what the cost 
of that work will be. It is this cost which Fairmead will have to pay to Mr and Mrs M.
£1,537.25 to replace their patio doors.
Upon receipt of an invoice showing the doors have been replaced, the VAT cost incurred 
for that. This to be paid within 14 days of receipt of the invoice. If payment is made 
outside of 14 days, Fairmead will have to add interest* to the VAT sum and pay that too.
£1,890 as a disturbance allowance for 63 days, plus interest* from 31 May 2014 until 
settlement is made.
£3,000 compensation for distress, inconvenience, pain and suffering (making total 
compensation paid by it £3,500).
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Fairmead considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs M, it should tell them how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman