DRN-2957762
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) declined his buildings insurance claim. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigators for these reasons:
The insured event Mr T says occurred is a storm. So I need to consider whether 
there was a storm; whether the damage is consistent with that typically caused by a 
storm; and if so, whether the storm was the main cause of the damage.
A storm isnt defined in the policy document, so the usual meaning of the word 
applies. It doesnt seem to be in dispute that a storm occurred. But for completeness, 
Im satisfied there were storm conditions around the time of the damage. This is 
because Zurichs surveyor concluded there had been a storm, and the weather 
reports Ive seen say there was a dry storm on 29 January 2020  with wind speeds 
of 59 miles per hour.
Ive gone on to consider whether the damage is consistent with storm damage  and 
if so, whether the storm was the main cause of this. Zurich arranged for a surveyor to 
visit Mr Ts home and inspect the damage. They said the storm(s) had highlighted 
pre-existing issues with the property  and the main cause of the damage was age-
related wear and tear. 
The surveyors report includes photographs of the damage. These show the fascia 
and soffit had rotted away, leaving a hole which the report notes that birds had 
nested in. The garage door  reported to have broken in the strong winds  also 
shows clear signs of wear and rust. I understand Mr T also claimed for efflorescence 
(salt deposits that build up over time) on his bricks  which is evident in the 
photographs. Overall, I dont consider most of the damage to be consistent with 
storm damage. This is because it seems to have occurred over a longer period of 
time, rather than being caused by a one-off insured event. Of that which could be 
consistent with storm damage, such as fallen roof tiles, Im not persuaded that the 
storm was the main cause. This is because the photographs show clear signs of pre-
existing wear and damage  which the surveyor concluded was the main cause of 
the damage being claimed for.  
It may help to explain that, whilst the storm was likely a factor in some of this damage 
occurring, what Im considering is whether it was the main cause. I think the 
surveyors conclusion that the storms highlighted pre-existing issues with the house 
seems reasonable, based on the reasoning and photographs set out in their report. 
I know Mr T is unhappy with the report. He questions the qualifications of the 
surveyor. Zurich has explained that the surveyor has been in this line of work since 
2005 and has good knowledge of the construction industry. Im therefore satisfied its 
reasonable for Zurich to rely on the surveyors findings. Mr T hasnt produced 
comparable expert evidence to outweigh this.
Mr T is also unhappy that the surveyor didnt go up on the roof during their 
inspection. But again, Im satisfied it was reasonable for the surveyor to use the clear 
photographs taken during the inspection to assess this damage  and for Zurich to 
rely on the conclusions it reached on that basis. The report is the strongest expert 
evidence available about the cause of the damage. 
As Zurich concluded that the claim wasnt covered by the storm damage section of 
the policy, it also considered the claim under accidental damage. But this section 
excludes damage caused by or consisting of gradual deterioration [or] wear and 
tear. Based on the surveyors report  which, as set out above, I consider it 
reasonable for Zurich to rely on  the damage was caused by age-related wear and 
tear. So Im satisfied that Zurich has applied, and relied on, this exclusion fairly.   
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr T. But having carefully reviewed all the evidence 
provided, Im satisfied Zurich has considered his claim fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman