DRN-3625976
The complaint
Mr E complains about two declined transactions on his debit card with J.P.Morgan Europe 
Limited trading as Chase (Chase).
Mr E also complains that he wasnt called back by a complaint handler. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Chase have evidenced through system screen shots that the card used for the two 
transactions that were declined, were the same card Mr E cancelled after he lost it. 
Mr E confirms via a webchat with an advisor at Chase that the card that was declined 
had the same last four digits as the card showing on Chases system as being lost 
and cancelled.
The card Mr E has now confirmed that he has and is working is the same card Chase 
have evidenced as being produced and sent to Mr E on 22 January 2022.  
Taking all this information into account, I think its most likely Mr E used the card he 
reported lost to make the two declined transactions. 
I also think its most likely Mr E still has in his possession an earlier card that was 
reported lost in December 2021. Which would explain why Mr E now says he has 
three cards. 
Mr E has mentioned that an agent was meant to call him back to talk through his complaint 
and didnt. Ive listened to a call with a Chase advisor where they apologised that this didnt 
happened. This is what Id expect them to do in these circumstances. 
Given that Ive come to the same outcome as Chase and for largely the same reasons, Im 
satisfied that the outcome of the complaint was unlikely to change even if Mr E had spoken 
to an advisor before the complaint was responded to and closed. I say this as Mr E hasnt 
produced any new evidence that changed the outcome of the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint against J.P.Morgan Europe Limited 
trading as Chase or make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman