DRN-2605262
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly wouldnt provide her with a 
mortgage on her new home which meant that she couldnt port her mortgage product. As a 
result, Mrs M had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) of £4,000. Mrs M was 
downsizing to pay off her debts and would like the ERC refunded to allow her to do so.
What happened
Mrs M had a mortgage with Nationwide and a mortgage product with a fixed rate of interest. 
If the mortgage was redeemed within a certain period, an ERC was payable but, according 
to the mortgage offer, the mortgage product could be ported. Mrs M, following a divorce, 
found herself in debt and had no choice but to sell and move home, releasing her equity to 
pay off her debts. Mrs Ms broker checked with Nationwide in October and again in 
December 2019 whether she could port her mortgage to a new build property with a Help to 
Buy scheme and was told that she could, so she arranged to sell her home. Once the sale 
was agreed Mrs M contacted a builder about a property, she was interested in which was for 
sale and could be bought with the assistance of the Help to Buy scheme. In addition to her 
own 5% deposit the builder would also gift a deposit of 5%.
Mrs Ms broker checked on a live chat that this was all acceptable to Nationwide and was 
told it was and on that basis Mrs M agreed the purchase. Mrs M then made her porting 
application and understood this was approved subject to a pay slip. But then Mrs M was told 
informally by a friend that Nationwide wouldnt allow a mortgage with a builders deposit. Her 
broker checked with Nationwide which confirmed this was the case. Mrs M felt she was too 
far down the line to change and managed to find another lender who would accept a 
builders deposit. But on selling her home she had to pay the ERC. 
Mrs M complained. Nationwide accepted that it had raised Mrs Ms expectations and offered 
her £200 compensation but still claimed the £4,000 ERC. Mrs M says that the whole process 
was intended to leave her debt free, but she has £4,000 less than expected. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she felt that Mrs M wouldnt have 
done anything differently, even if she was told correctly of Nationwides position earlier on 
builders deposits and would have proceeded to purchase the new property and pay the 
ERC. Mrs M disagreed and asked for a review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M was downsizing to pay off her debts from the equity arising from the sale of her house 
and hoped to port. She later discovered that she couldnt port, and this deprived her off 
£4,000 that she could have used to pay off her debts. Its accepted that Nationwide gave Mrs 
Ms broker incorrect information about its lending criteria and the question is what loss Mrs M 
suffered as a result.
We have established that Nationwide has a policy of not accepting Help to Buy cases where 
a builders deposit or cashback is offered, Nationwide has shown us the relevant part of its 
lending criteria. According to the mortgage offer of 25 March 2019 Mrs M could port the 
mortgage product to a new mortgage with Nationwide but the application will be subject to 
the lending criteria at the time. Mrs M in her email to us of the 30 January 2021 challenges 
that saying that her grievance is that regardless of where the deposit was coming from it was 
a deposit. But lenders dont treat all deposits similarly and some have special rules about 
builders deposits. Nationwide isnt unique about having such rules. Our view is that lenders 
are commercial organisations and are entitled to assess their risk appetite and set heir own 
lending criteria. So, I cant fairly criticise Nationwides decision as to how it handles builders 
deposits in its lending criteria.
Its accepted that Nationwide gave Mrs M incorrect information about its lending criteria. I 
dont believe that this was initially incorrect when Nationwide said that the product could be 
ported to a mortgage with a Help to Buy scheme. It could indeed but not to one involving a 
builders deposit. Based on this Mrs M decided to sell her property. The misinformation 
about Nationwides lending criteria came later. Clearly if Mrs M had been able to port the 
purchase would have been better for Mrs M. But it seems that she was going to benefit from 
the purchase anyway including downsizing and releasing equity. 
Mrs M lost out by paying the ERC of £4,000 but she also gained by being able to benefit 
from the builders deposit of £9,250. So, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator that even if Mrs M got clearer information from Nationwide that she would have 
continued with the sale and purchase. As this would involve Mrs M accepting a builders 
deposit, it meant that she couldnt port her Nationwide mortgage.  So, I whilst I understand 
that Mrs M has cause for complaint, I believe that Nationwide has dealt with her fairly by 
paying compensation of £200 for the upset caused to Mrs M by raising her expectations. But 
I dont accept that the ERC was unfairly charged and so, I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman