DRN-2961075
The complaint
Miss E has complained that Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF or the lender) was 
irresponsible to have agreed car finance for her in 2017. Miss E says that adequate checks 
werent carried out on her ability to meet her repayments and she also has concerns about 
what happened at the time of the sale.
  
What happened
In July 2017 BMF entered into a hire-purchase agreement with Miss E, through an 
intermediary, in order for her to acquire a car. The cash price of the car was £8,280. The 
agreement was for a total of £14,673 including interest and charges. Miss E paid an up-front 
fee of £238 and the remainder was to be repaid by monthly instalments of approximately 
£238 over 59 months, with a final payment of £388. (Ive rounded all figures to the nearest 
pound.) 
The credit to buy the car was granted by BMF under a hire purchase agreement meaning 
Miss E would own the car when the credit had been repaid. BMF was the owner until that 
point and Miss E was, in essence, paying for the use of it. 
Miss E had the option of voluntarily terminating the agreement at any point and returning 
the car. This option would limit her total liability to £7,336 (as set out in the agreement) if 
shed taken reasonable care of the car. The agreement also stipulated that once Miss A 
had paid £4,891 BMF would not be able to repossess the car unless it had obtained a 
court order allowing it to do so. 
I understand that Miss E struggled to meet her repayments from the beginning and fell into 
arrears. Her last payment was in October 2019 and to date Miss E has paid £4,759 and the 
outstanding balance is £9,914. She still has the car but says that she doesnt drive it except 
to charge the battery and that altogether shes driven it less than 19,000 miles. Miss E says 
that she has paid for the cars upkeep, for example paying insurance and tax, MOTs and 
occasional repairs. 
Miss E says that BMF didnt carry out proper checks before lending to her and, had it done 
so, it would have declined to lend to her because of her existing debts and level of income. 
Miss E also says that she was on long term sick leave and was vulnerable at the time of her 
application, which should have been obvious.
BMF says that Miss Es application didnt cause it any concerns or require further 
investigation of her circumstances. It says that the sales process had robust procedures in 
place to identify any potential vulnerability which were not triggered in her case, and Miss E 
should have explained to the dealership that she was on sick leave. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Es complaint and recommended that it be upheld. 
They found that BMF would have declined to lend to Miss E because further checks were 
likely to have shown the finance to be unaffordable for her. Our investigator recommended 
that BMF collect the car at no further cost to Miss E; retain her payments and consider her 
debt settled and remove any negative information about the agreement from her credit file. 
BMF accepted the investigators recommendation to resolve the complaint for Miss E, but 
didnt agree with the finding that it should not have lent to her. 
Miss E accepted our investigators conclusions but didnt agree with their recommendation 
about how to put things right. Miss E feels she is losing out if BMF retains all the payments 
shes made. She also says that shes had the use of a family members car while they were 
not using it due to the pandemic but this access is coming to an end. Her health is such that 
she cannot use public transport and will need to rely on the car to get to work and to attend 
hospital appointments. Miss E also says that this matter has made her seriously ill, mentally 
and physically, and is causing her daily distress. Miss E asked for her complaint to come to 
an ombudsman and so it has come to me to review and resolve. 
As mentioned, Miss E has also complained that she was on long term sickness absence 
from work at the time due to her mental health concerns and BMF, via the selling dealership, 
ought to have recognised that she was vulnerable. This is the subject of another complaint 
with this Service against the dealership and so I wont address this particular aspect of 
Miss Es complaint here. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
BMF needed to check that Miss E could afford to meet her repayments sustainably before 
agreeing credit for her. In other words, it needed to check she could repay the credit out of 
her usual means without having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty 
or other adverse consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the 
credit and Miss Es circumstances, and BMF needed to take proper account of the 
information it gathered. 
Our investigator concluded that BMF ought to have looked into Miss Es circumstances 
before lending to her and, had it done so, would likely have declined to lend to her. I 
appreciate that this will be disappointing for BMF but I agree with these findings. 
BMF explained that it accepted Miss E for credit as she met its lending criteria and 
passed its automated checks without anything unusual being noted. It says it also 
checked her credit file. BMF says that the dealership said Miss E was employed 
earning £2,000 a month, with a disposable income of £750 to £800 a month. 
BMF hasnt been able to tell us anything further about its checks or what they revealed 
and so I cant say it carried out a reasonable and proportionate affordability check prior 
to entering into the agreement with Miss E. I dont know how it estimated Miss Es 
disposable income, for example, or whether it asked her for any verification of her 
income or expenses - CONC 5.3.1(g)(4)(b) stated: it is not generally sufficient for a 
firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a 
statement of those matters made by the customer.
As our adjudicator pointed out, Miss Es credit check (provided by her) showed shed 
taken out three new credit cards simultaneously a few months prior to this agreement 
which seems unusual and might have raised concerns for BMF, had it taken this into 
account. Miss E provided her bank statements from April, May and June 2017. Im not suggesting this 
is the information BMF ought to have relied on, but it gives me some insight into Miss Es 
finances and what any further checks might have revealed. I can see that Miss Es income 
could be as low as £980 (June 2017) and that she was in receipt of benefits amounting to 
about £500 a month. Miss Es identifiable regular expenses generally amounted to over 
£1,000 and she spent at least £500 each month on what seems to be food and fuel costs. 
Ive noted that in April Miss E made over 20 separate token payments of £1 to various credit 
providers and debt collectors. 
Altogether, I think its unlikely Miss E was in a position to make her repayments for this 
agreement without difficulty. I think BMF was likely to have learnt this through further checks 
and would have declined to lend to her at that time. As mentioned, Miss E struggled to meet 
her repayments and I think this was foreseeable. I find BMF didnt treat Miss E fairly when it 
entered into this agreement with her and it needs to put this right.
Putting things right
Let me start by saying that Im sorry to hear of Miss Es health issues. I understand that 
these have been ongoing for some time and that her health continues to be a serious 
concern for her and her family. As mentioned, Miss E says that this matter is a source of 
ongoing distress.
The credit agreement has been running since June 2017 and I understand that Miss E hasnt 
paid anything towards it since October 2019. Miss E says that she would like to hold onto the 
car as she needs one for work and to attend hospital appointments. 
My decision deals with whats gone wrong regarding the current agreement so Ive set out 
below what I think needs to happen to put this right. Miss E doesnt have to accept this 
decision and it would then be up to her and BMF to come to an agreeable resolution 
together or allow a court to decide whats best. 
In order to redress BMFs error and put Miss E back into the position she would have been in 
prior to the agreement, BMF first needs to cancel this agreement. BMF remains the owner of 
the vehicle, but because I dont think the agreement should have been set up it needs to 
refund the payments Miss E made under it. I think its fair that BMF retains a portion of 
Miss Es payments because she has had the use of the car and its likely she would have 
incurred some costs to stay mobile without it or made other arrangements.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair proportion of Miss Es payments 
might reflect her usage of the car. Ive noted that there havent been any problems with the 
car which might have impaired Miss Es use of it, though she has mentioned that shes spent 
money on occasional repairs which I assume are down to wear and tear. She has also 
mentioned that she hasnt been using the car as shes had the use of another vehicle, but I 
would consider this was through choice rather than there being an issue with the car. 
Ive also considered the cash price of the car and how much Miss E has repaid so far. Ive 
thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, how the agreement was 
structured and the likelihood of the car having decreased in value since the agreements 
inception.  
Our investigator recommended (in May 2021) that BMF take back the car and end the 
agreement with nothing further for Miss E to pay. This would mean shes paid over £100 a 
month to have the use of the car. BMF agreed with this as a resolution. I am aware that several months have passed since this recommendation was made but, 
having considered everything, I am of the view that it remains the fairest way to resolve 
Miss Es complaint for both parties. 
In summary, to put things right for Miss E, BMF should:
a) End the agreement with nothing further for Miss E to pay; and
b) Collect the car at no further expense to Miss E; and
c) Remove all adverse information about this finance agreement from her credit file. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Es complaint about Blue Motor Finance Ltd 
and it needs to put things right as Ive outlined.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman