DRN-4253639
The complaint
Mr G complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of his Buildings Insurance claim.
All references to Aviva also include its appointed agents.
What Im considering in my decision
Im recognise there have been issues prior to November 2021, when Aviva said it become 
aware of the claim. I also acknowledge there have been further developments in the claim, 
Avivas position, and the subsequent offer of a settlement since its final response in 
May 2022. I also acknowledge Mr G has referred to further issues regarding this. But my 
intended findings focus on events from when Aviva says it become aware of the claim, 
around November 2021, up until its final response in May 2022. 
However, I may refer to events outside this timeframe in the context of answering this 
complaint where necessary.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of events that led to this complaint. Therefore, it doesnt 
include a full timeline or list of every point made.
Mr G made a claim around February 2021 due to damage to a wall at his property.
Mr G said he believed extreme weather preceding the walls collapse was the cause
 and accumulated melting snowfall may have exacerbated this.
Mr G initiated the claim with a broker and originally the claim was initiated through a 
different insurer, under a different policy.
Aviva say it became aware of the claim in November 2021.
Aviva conducted a site visit in early December 2021, but Mr G said no further 
progress or response had been provided by Aviva on its position by January 2022.
Mr G said he had to further chase Aviva in order to try and progress the claim.
A further site visit was made by Aviva in February 2022.
Following this, Aviva declined the claim it said the wall was in a poor state of repair
and had not been damaged by a one-off incident but had happened gradually.
Because of this Avia said it would be classed as wear and tear which is excluded
under the terms of the policy.
However, Aviva offered a 20% contribution towards the reinstatement of the wall as it
felt a part of the wall could have been affected by the weight of snow. However, its
position was that the wall failed due its condition and the weather had merely served
to highlight this.
Mr G raised a complaint with Aviva in February 2022. Some of the points raised in his 
complaint letter relate fall outside of what Im considering in this complaint, so Ive not 
considered them here  as Ive set out above.
However, Ive summarised the key points Mr G has made relating to this complaint below.
Aviva caused avoidable delays in its handling and progression of dealing with Mr Gs 
claim, including failure to instruct experts sooner and referring to the appropriate 
departments.
Aviva attempted to retrospectively add new and unreasonable terms to his policy  
informing him the wall should have been inspected once a year by a builder.
Aviva refused to provide information to Mr G about the claim. In particular, copies of 
the reports from site visits. As a result, Mr G had to make a subject access request to 
obtain information.
Aviva continued to rely on incorrect assumptions that the weight of snow had caused 
the wall to fail. Despite Mr G informing them the claim had likely occurred due to 
period of unprecedented wet weather at the time of the incident.
Aviva continued to rely on out-of-date quotes when offering a settlement to Mr G and 
didnt acknowledge this when he pointed it out.
Aviva made a settlement offer to Mr G, but in correspondence he received through a 
subject access request, it has referred to making a lower offer to minimise the 
settlement cost.
In its final response, Aviva maintained its reasoning for declining Mr Gs claim. However, it 
acknowledged it had caused some delays in arranging site visits following it becoming aware 
of the claim. It offered Mr G £150 compensation to recognise the inconvenience caused.
Mr G was unhappy with Avivas response, so he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended we uphold Mr Gs complaint. To put things right, she 
recommended Aviva offer a further £200 compensation due to avoidable delays it had 
caused between November 2021 and May 2022. Mr G didnt agree with our investigators 
recommendation and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
The complaint then passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 July 2023. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr G has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure him Ive
considered everything he has submitted to our service to support his complaint very
carefully.
However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points
raised. This isnt intended as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address
every single point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to
consider the evidence presented by Mr G, and by Aviva, to reach what I think is a fair and
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. This reflects the informal nature of our
service, its remit and my role in it.
Having done so, I intend to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
The claim
Aviva instructed two representatives to attend the property, in December 2021, and again in
February 2022. Both concluded ultimately the damage was a result of wear and tear. Avivasposition was that had the wall been in a better condition, it would have withstood the weather
conditions present around the time  referencing in particular the condition of pointing in the
wall.
A previous report, prepared by a structural surveyor for Avivas loss adjuster, prior to Avivas
involvement, was also available. But I cant see Aviva enquired about this until
January 2022, when prompted by Mr G.
Our service has asked for copies of Avivas reports  and any other information available
relating to the claim. But to date these have not been provided. I can see from comments in
the file the findings of this report are referenced to be similar in that it identified issues with
gradual damage and wear and tear.
I understand Mr Gs view is extreme weather, exacerbated by melting snowfall, caused the
damage. I also acknowledge his concern this wasnt referenced in communication from
Aviva when the claim was declined. I can see this has been considered within comments
from Aviva, but I do agree this wasnt communicated well to Mr G.
From the information available, and in absence of any other evidence to the contrary, I cant
say Avivas conclusion was obviously wrong. So, at the point of issuing its final response of
May 2022, I dont think Aviva had acted unreasonably in applying the exclusion to decline
claim.
The offer of a 20% settlement
Aviva concluded the weight of potential snow fall could have contributed to the damage in a
part of the wall. So, it made a commercial decision to offer Mr G a 20% settlement as a
gesture of goodwill.
As this offer was a matter of commercial judgement its not something our service can
interfere with.
However, we do expect Insurers to treat people fairly. But based on what Ive set out above,
Aviva were not liable to offer any settlement to the claim, and it has done so here. So, while I
appreciate Mr Gs frustration at Avivas comments about the range of their offer, I think it
acted reasonably, at the time, in making the offer  as it was entitled to make no payment at
all.
Avoidable delays and handling of the claim
However, I do feel the way the claim has been handled has been poor and in not in the spirit
of treating customers fairly. Aviva caused avoidable delays in dealing with Mr Gs claim,
including failure to instruct experts sooner and referring matters to the appropriate
departments.
Mr G has had to continually chase for the claim to be progressed. The claim did not progress
initially for around six weeks. And despite the appointed loss adjuster being within the same
company that handled the claim before Avivas involvement, and information potentially
being available from closer to the time of the incident, this wasnt enquired about until
January 2022, over two months later.
Mr G was not given access to reports  despite multiple requests. Having reviewed the
information available to me I think Aviva could have reasonably shared these and it has not
provided a clear explanation as to why it didnt.I dont think this aided the claim progressing. And its reasonable Mr G would feel the
concerns he raised about how the issues occurred have not been considered properly. In
turn, this prevented him from providing a full response to represent his claim.
I also think this wouldve caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience and a feeling of
not being treated fairly by Aviva.
Aviva acknowledged some of the delays in progressing matters and has offered Mr G £150
compensation. However, I do feel further compensation is due and I think a total of £350 is in
the region of what I would recommend to fairly recognise the distress and inconvenience
Avivas actions have caused Mr G under this complaint.
I recognise Mr G will likely be disappointed with my intended direction for compensation. But
the role of this service isnt to make punitive awards. I understand Mr G feels very strongly
about what has happened, and I appreciate why he might feel I should award a significant
amount of compensation. However, having reviewed everything available to me, Im satisfied
the award is fair and reasonable for the reasoning Ive set out.
Mr Gs comments that Aviva tried to impose retrospective terms
Ive reviewed the comments made about maintenance of the wall in the correspondence
between Mr G and Aviva. And I dont agree this means Aviva tried to retrospectively impose
a term.
There is no condition or endorsement on the policy that requires Mr G to have the wall
inspected annually. But Ive not seen anything that persuades me the claim was declined
because Mr G didnt have the wall inspected annually. It was declined because Aviva
believed the wall had failed due to wear and tear, which is excluded under the terms of the
policy.
I can understand Mr Gs comments regarding this, and I dont think Aviva needed to
specifically reference annual inspections. However, I dont think it is unreasonable for it to
provide examples of how it thinks the wall could have been kept in an appropriate condition
or operation.
Responses to my provisional decision
Aviva responded to say it accepted my provisional findings.
Mr G didnt agree with my provisional findings. Ive summarised the key points hes made 
below:
Mr G referenced ongoing matters since Avivas final response in May 2022. 
Mr G said my provisional findings wouldnt encourage Aviva to deal with matters in a 
manner which acknowledges the severity of the things it has done wrong.
Aviva reason declining his claim wasnt valid.
Aviva should have appointed an independent expert at the beginning of the claim.
Avivas offer of a 20% settlement was based on out-of-date quotes, and it has 
referred to making a lower offer to minimise the settlement cost in correspondence. 
Mr G says Aviva have later claimed this was done in error rather than a commercial 
gesture of goodwill.
Mr G doesnt feel the compensation recommended in my provisional findings is fair or 
reasonable reprimand to Aviva.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr G said, but it doesnt change my decision  or my reasoning. 
Mr G has referenced ongoing issues with his claim and subsequent developments which 
have seen Aviva accept liability. Im aware a further complaint has been made to Aviva and 
should Mr G not be satisfied with its response; he may consider bringing a further complaint 
to our service. However, Ive already set out what I will and will not be considering in this 
decision. So, I wont be commenting on this further.
I set out in my provisional findings why I dont think Aviva had acted unreasonably in 
applying the exclusion to decline claim at the point of issuing its final response of May 2022. 
I understand opinion from an independent expert has later changed Avivas stance on 
settlement. However, during the timescale Im considering in this complaint it sent two 
representatives to Mr Gs property to assess the damage. 
Aviva is entitled to follow its usual processes when dealing with a claim, and that includes 
sending a loss adjuster in the first instance. And I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably at 
the time to rely on the information available as it did. 
I understand Mr Gs frustration that Avivas correspondence referenced making a lower offer. 
But whether this was a commercial decision, or a mistaken offer, at the time, it was entitled 
to make no payment at all. So, I will make no further comment here.
Our service is not a regulator. As such it isnt our role to reprimand businesses or to make 
punitive awards. I understand Mr G feels strongly about whats happened, and what hes 
said is continuing to happen with his claim. However, from the time Im reviewing in this 
complaint, Im satisfied the award I made in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable 
for the reasoning I set out.
Putting things right
To put things right, Aviva should pay Mr G a total of £350 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman