DRN-3835338
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the service provided by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) in 
relation to their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have travel insurance through their bank account. This is insured with UKI. 
They also took out a separate upgrade to extend the trip duration to 80 days.
They booked a trip abroad with a return date of 12 December 2021. This wasnt a direct 
flight back to the UK but included a connection in another country. A few days before their 
planned return date, their flight was cancelled by the airline due to local government 
restrictions on certain travellers entering the country they were transiting through. Mr and 
Mrs H were able to rearrange their flights with that airline to return on 27 January 2022, but 
this would have meant their trip duration was in excess of the 80 days allowed on the policy.
Mr and Mrs H contacted UKI in order to get a further trip extension, but this was refused. UKI 
said the trip duration could only be extended prior to the trip or, if during the trip, due to 
circumstances outside their control. UKI said this would be for medical reasons or if they had 
no alternative to get out of the country. As other airlines were still operating flights to the UK, 
UKI said the extension wasnt beyond their control. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs H complained to UKI. The complaint was escalated 
to a team leader who then referred the matter internally to see whether there was anything 
that could be done. UKI agreed that, due to the extenuating circumstances, they would 
extend Mr and Mrs Hs policy for the extra time needed. However, this took five days and, by 
this time, Mr and Mrs H had obtained flights with another airline within the original 80 day 
period. 
Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to this service. They said they shouldnt have been 
advised in the initial call that UKI wouldnt extend the trip duration as it was clear this was not 
a normal situation. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. 
She found that the policy only provided cover for extensions that are outside your control 
and as other flights were leaving, she thought it was fair for UKI to refuse to extend the trip 
duration in the initial call. But she did note that UKI had escalated the matter and thought 
that it took reasonable steps to investigate.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the outcome reached by our investigator. They said that the 
matter was only escalated within UKI at their insistence  it wasnt something that the initial 
call handler was going to do. As no agreement could be reached the matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Your Ive firstly reviewed the policy terms and conditions to see what cover is available for 
trip extensions. At the beginning of the policy wording, there is a section relating to things to 
consider when booking a trip and this includes the following:
Is your trip for more than 31 days?
The policy covers you for trips of up to 31 days. If your trip is longer you can 
purchase a Trip Extension Upgrade. This must be done before your departure from 
the UK. Further details on how to do this can be found on page 7.
On page 7 of the policy it states:
Trip length
This policy provides cover for trips of up to 31 days. If your return to your home area 
is delayed beyond the scheduled end date of your trip for reasons outside your 
control we will automatically extend cover under your new return date. If you are 
planning a longer trip you can extend your cover by buying a Trip Extension 
Upgrade.
From reviewing the relevant parts of the policy wording detailed above, I think it is clear that 
the extension of cover for a trip which has already begun is quite restricted.
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that, in the initial call with UKI, they were advised that the 
additional trip extension wouldnt be agreed. UKI said that it wasnt inappropriate of the call 
handler to inform them of the limitations on the policy for extensions to cover. 
In the first call Mr and Mrs H had with UKI, the handler explained that to consider the 
extension as being for reasons outside your control, it would need to be due to either 
medical advice not to travel or circumstances that meant you were unable to leave the 
country. In Mr and Mrs Hs situation, it wasnt that they couldnt return home, it was that they 
couldnt return home on their original planned flight due to the transit country used by that 
airline. Flights with other airlines, that either flew direct to the UK or via a different country, 
were still in operation. So, the handler advised that cover wouldnt be granted to extend their 
policy. Im satisfied that this was a fair response to their query, based on the cover available 
in the policy terms and conditions. 
I note that the matter was then escalated to a team leader, who then referred the matter 
internally. Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that they had to request the matter was escalated, 
rather than the handler doing this themselves. As I mentioned previously, I dont think that 
the call handlers response was unreasonable - so I dont think it was necessary for them to 
automatically refer the matter. But when Mr and Mrs H did ask for the matter to be referred 
this was done, and I can see that contact was made with them by a manager the same day. 
As a result of the extenuating circumstances Mr and Mrs H faced, UKI agreed to the 
extension as a gesture of goodwill. I think this was the right thing to do in this situation. It did 
take a few days to come back to Mr and Mrs H with this answer, however, I can see that 
they had been informed of the referral on the same day as the initial call. I dont think it is 
unreasonable for UKI to want to look into the matter carefully, especially as this was a 
decision outside of the usual policy terms, and so Im satisfied that UKI reached that decision 
within a reasonable timeframe. I dont require UKI to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman