DRN-4436490
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the way that Simplyhealth Access administered their dual- 
registered Simply Cash insurance policies.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G each held dual-registered Simply Cash cashback insurance policies for many 
years, which provided cashback benefits for optical and dental treatment, amongst other 
things.
In May 2019, Mrs G contacted Simplyhealth to discuss how to reduce the policy premium. 
During the call, Mr Gs policy was cancelled, although he remained a dependent on Mrs Gs 
policy. Mrs Gs cover level was also reduced to bring down the policy price.
Over the next few years, Mr and Mrs G continued to make cash-back claims. In January 
2023, Mrs G contacted Simplyhealth to query how it had settled claims thatd been paid out. 
During the call, Simplyhealth confirmed that Mr Gs policy had been cancelled some years 
earlier.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree that theyd asked Simplyhealth to cancel Mr Gs plan or remove 
the dual-registration and so they complained. Mrs G also asked Simplyhealth to cancel her 
own plan.
Simplyhealth said that given the time thatd passed, it no longer had a copy of the call 
recording from May 2019. But it said that its notes from the time showed that Mrs G had 
requested the change. It added that Mrs G had been sent documentation setting out the plan 
changes and renewal paperwork each year. And it also said that Mrs G had only paid 
premiums for one policy rather than two policies for over three years.
Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy with Simplyhealths position and so they asked us to look 
into their complaint. They wanted Simplyhealth to reinstate both dual-registered policies.
Our investigator didnt think it would be fair to ask Simplyhealth to reinstate both policies. 
Thats because she was satisfied that if Mr Gs policy had remained live, he and Mrs G 
would have paid significantly more for the additional cover than theyd have been able to 
claim back under the policy. However, she didnt think Simplyhealth had provided enough 
evidence to show it had done all it shouldve done at the time Mr Gs policy was cancelled. 
And so she recommended that Simplyhealth should pay Mr and Mrs G £100 compensation.
I issued a provisional decision on 31 October 2023, which explained the reasons why I didnt 
intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. I said:
Both parties agree that in May 2019, Mrs G contacted Simplyhealth because her and Mr Gs 
situation had changed and they needed to reduce their premiums. Mrs G says she didnt ask 
Simplyhealth to cancel Mr Gs policy  she simply wanted to reduce the cover.
Its unfortunate that Simplyhealth no longer has a copy of the call, which would have allowed 
me to determine exactly what was said. But, given the time thats passed since the call took 
place on 19 May 2019, I dont think its unreasonable that Simplyhealth no longer has the 
recording. In the absence of the call though, I necessarily need to make a decision based on 
what I think is most likely to have happened  given the available evidence and the 
circumstances.
Simplyhealth has provided me with call notes dated from 19 May 2019, which refer to both 
Mr and Mrs Gs individual plans. Mrs Gs plan notes say:
Mrs G called in to cancel her plantheir plans are getting too expensive. Itransferred her 
to HSLConsumer Level 2 as well as adding her husband onto the plan as an adult 
dependent.
The call notes for Mr Gs plan are broadly identical and conclude with the following:
I have cancelled his plan from 01/06/2019.
Ive seen a copy of a letter, dated 20 May 2019, which was addressed to Mrs G and which 
Simplyhealth sent to Mr and Mrs Gs address. The letter refers to a confirmation of the policy 
changes being enclosed, along with enclosed terms and conditions. The letter also indicated 
that Mrs G should check the policy details to make sure they were correct.
On balance, I find the call notes of 19 May 2019 persuasive evidence that Mrs G did ask 
Simplyhealth to bring down the policy premiums and that she asked it to cancel one of the 
cash plans. Thats because I think the notes are contemporaneous evidence of whats most 
likely to have been discussed and agreed at the time  even though I appreciate that Mrs G 
can no longer remember requesting policy cancellation. And I also think its more likely than 
not that Simplyhealth sent Mrs G updated, relevant information which indicated that her plan 
had changed. I also think its most likely that the information showed that only one plan was 
now active with Mr and Mrs G both solely covered under one policy. Mrs G has told us that 
she didnt read all of the policy information which was sent to her, so I can entirely 
understand why she may not remember receiving all of the information Simplyhealth says it 
issued. However, on balance, I think its more likely than not that Simplyhealth did send Mrs 
G updated terms and conditions following the change which explained the new levels of 
cover.
Im mindful too that each year, following the change, renewal documentation was sent to Mrs 
G alone for one policy  rather than both she and Mr G receiving renewal documentation for 
each plan. I think this ought to have put them on notice that only one policy remained active. 
And its clear that rather than paying for two policies per year, premiums for only one plan 
were taken between 2019 and 2023.
Overall, on balance, I think its most likely that Mrs G did ask to cancel one plan. It seems 
that she may originally have asked to cancel her own plan, although Mr Gs went on to be 
cancelled. But it appears that both she and Mr G wouldve remained covered under a single 
plan, irrespective of whether it was Mr G or Mrs Gs sole plan which was cancelled. And it 
appears that the same price wouldve been applied for either policy  regardless of who the 
main policyholder was. For completeness though, Id add that if both policies had remained 
live, while Mr and Mrs G wouldve been able to claim around £150 more between 2019 and 
2023, theyd have paid over £1700 more for the cover. So I dont think I could fairly find 
theres been a financial loss here. Neither do I think I could fairly find that Simplyhealth has 
caused Mr and Mrs G any material distress and inconvenience which I could reasonably 
direct it to compensate them for.
Given I think Simplyhealth was entitled to cancel one of the plans, it follows that I think it was reasonably entitled to settle any claims made in line with the cover provided by Mrs Gs plan. 
So Im not planning to tell Simplyhealth to take any action or do anything more.
I asked both parties to send me any additional evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Simplyhealth had nothing to add.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept my provisional decision. They wanted to reiterate that theyd 
been with Simplyhealth and its predecessors for over 60 years. And that over the last 10-12 
years, theyd always claimed off of each other. They queried why theyd wish to discontinue 
this arrangement. They said theyd purely asked to lower their membership. They added that 
they didnt remember receiving any documents about the new policy  only annual 
documents for their existing policies, which theyd believed to simply be at a lower rate. They 
said theyd had no reason to think otherwise.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G, Ive decided not to uphold 
their complaint and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators principles say that a firm must conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence. And that it must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
I explained in my provisional decision why I thought Simplyhealths call notes of May 2019 
were persuasive evidence that Mrs G had asked it to bring down the policy premiums and to 
cancel one of the policies. Ive thought very carefully about what Mr and Mrs G have said, 
but on balance, I still think the contemporaneous call note evidence indicates that its most 
likely that Mrs G did ask for cancellation of one of the policies.  
Mr and Mrs G say that they dont remember receiving any documents about the new policy 
and Ive considered this point carefully. However, as Ive set out above, Ive seen a copy of 
the letter Simplyhealth sent Mrs G following the policy changes, which states that updated 
information was enclosed. So, on balance, I think its most likely that updated policy 
information was sent to Mrs G. And that she and Mr G were sent accurate policy information 
at each subsequent renewal.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Gs position, I think Simplyhealth did meet its 
regulatory obligations to conduct its business with due skill and care and that it treated them 
fairly. So it follows that I still think Simplyhealth was entitled to cancel one of the plans and to 
settle any claims made in line with the cover provided by Mrs Gs policy. This means Im not 
telling Simplyhealth to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman