DRN-1950909
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in February 1995 
on a credit card. Mrs R says Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold her the 
PPI.
An adjudicator reviewed Mrs Rs complaint and didnt think Barclaycard had mis-sold her the 
PPI. Mrs R did not agree, the case has been referred to me  an ombudsman  for a final 
decision to be issued. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling the PPI to Mrs R, Barclaycard had to make it clear the policy was optional. It 
also had to get Mrs Rs agreement to take it. Mrs R says she thought she had to have the 
PPI if she wanted the credit card. She says its optional nature was not made clear. 
Barclaycard says the credit card and PPI were taken out by postal application and its 
provided the application form Mrs R completed at the time. Ive considered this form in light 
of Mrs Rs comments. The form had a separate section called Payment Protection Plan and 
within this there is the option to tick either Yes or No for the cover. On Mrs Rs form I can 
see that the Yes box has been ticked. There is nothing within the statement about the PPI 
which says it is needed in order for the credit card application to be approved and if Mrs R 
didnt want the PPI the No option was also available. 
So I think Barclaycard made it clear that Mrs R had a choice about taking the PPI, and I think 
she chose to take it knowing he didnt have to.
I dont think Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Mrs R so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs R got the information he needed to decide if it 
was right for her.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mrs R has told us shed get very good benefits from her employer. Mrs R says the benefits 
wouldve been six months full pay followed by six months half pay if she was unable to work 
due to illness. But the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Mrs R couldnt work due 
to illness and this wouldve been paid alongside her employer benefits. And if Mrs R had lost 
her job, this policy wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months. So I think she would have 
valued the extra security the policy gave her if things went wrong.
Mrs R has also referred to another income protection policy she had in place and says she 
didnt require the PPI because she already had adequate protection. Without further details 
of this cover it is difficult to say whether it meant Mrs R had no need for the PPI. But as 
Barclaycard didnt provide Mrs R with advice, it wouldve been for her to decide whether the 
PPI met her needs in light of her existing provisions. 
So, overall it looks like the PPI would have been useful for Mrs R if something went wrong. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. And as the premium was paid monthly Mrs R couldve 
cancelled the PPI at any time if it no longer met her needs. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put Mrs R off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mrs R, including what she has said about other PPI complaints 
being found in her favour. I appreciate Mrs Rs frustration, however each case is assessed 
on an individual basis and the specific details of a case can affect the outcome. This doesnt 
mean that this particular case of Mrs Rs hasnt been considered fairly. As Ive explained 
above, I have considered her comments carefully but in the circumstances of this particular 
complaint I dont think Barclaycard mis-sold her the PPI. 
Which means Barclaycard doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R because:
Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs R about that. Because Barclaycard didnt
tell Mrs R, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
So I dont think Barclaycard needs to do anything more to resolve Mrs Rs complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman