DRN-3631612
The complaint
Mr A complains that Curve UK Limited has not paid him the full value of a refund.
What happened
Mr A says he bought an item that he later received a refund for. He says the exchange rate 
on the day of the refund should have meant he received £1,967 but he only received £1,895. 
Mr A says Curve is profiting from the exchange rate difference which should be repaid to 
him. He also says Curve gave him information that he would receive the higher amount.
Curve says Mr A received the refund for £1,895 in June 2022 which is the amount he initially 
paid. It accepts the receipt it provided had the exchange rate on the day of the refund and 
its apologised for that mistake. Curve has offered a goodwill payment of £20 for that mistake 
but says if it applied the exchange rate on the refund date then a customer potentially could 
suffer a loss.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Curve acted fairly by refunding the amount Mr A paid and had made a fair goodwill 
offer for the incorrect receipt information. The investigator didnt think Curves refund system 
was designed to allow customers to potentially profit from refunds.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and says there is no mention of this policy in its terms of 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr A received a refund for the exact amount he paid out. I appreciate the 
exchange rate may have changed by the date of the refund, but I dont think that has 
anything to do with Mr A or that he is entitled to the difference. I dont think a refund policy is 
intended as a potential profit-making scheme.
If a customer was entitled to a refund based on the exchange rate on the refund date, then 
there is every possibility that customer may receive less than was initially paid due to 
exchange rate differences. No doubt it would be argued such a system is unfair. Im satisfied 
that Mr A has not suffered any financial loss and has been put back in the same place he 
was in before the original purchase. 
I appreciate Mr A was given misleading information on the receipt he received. I can see 
Curve has fairly apologised for that mistake and has offered a fair and reasonable gesture of 
goodwill. I accept that is not the main part of the complaint and dont think that information 
had any real impact on Mr A.
Overall, Im satisfied that its up to Curve to decide what its refund policy is and think that it 
treated Mr A fairly by refunding the amount he paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman