DRN-4158445
The complaint
Mrs A complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs actions after funds were paid into her 
account in error.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mrs A complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs actions after funds were paid into her 
account in error.
Mrs A has explained she was expecting a dividend payment from a business Ill call N. On 
21 July 2022, N made a payment of £32,185.91 to Mrs As account. Mrs A has told us she 
went on holiday and wasnt aware that shed received more than expected. On 12 August 
2022 Mrs A transferred the funds to a savings account in her name.
Solicitors acting for N contacted Mrs A and explained it had sent the payment in error and 
that it had intended to transfer a much lower amount of around £4. The solicitors asked Mrs 
A to arrange an immediate repayment of the funds transferred in error.
Mrs A says she contacted Barclays to resolve the issue as she was concerned about being 
the victim of fraud. Mrs A has told us she had many conversations with Barclays fraud team 
and was assured the funds would be removed from her account within 24 hours but they 
werent immediately returned.
Mrs A has explained she received regular contact from N and solicitors acting on its behalf 
threatening legal action if the funds werent returned.
Mrs A complained to Barclays as the funds werent returned to N. Barclays issued responses 
to Mrs As complaint and explained that on 21 September 2022 funds totalling £20,971.21 
were removed from accounts that she had made transfers to and placed in a holding 
account. Barclays advised the refunds were made in line with Claytons Case methodology 
and that it wasnt looking to make any further refunds. At this point, Mrs As current account 
had over £12,729.21, enough to cover the remaining balance due to N.
The funds Barclays debited from Mrs As account in September 2022 were placed in a 
holding account but not returned to N by Barclays. Mrs A has explained that she continued 
to receive contact from N and its solicitors during this period with the threat of legal action to 
recover the balance. In December 2022 Barclays applied account blocks to Mrs As sole 
account and a joint account she holds with her husband. The account blocks were removed 
within 24 hours.
Mrs A referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought Barclays had dealt with Mrs As complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else.
On 12 January 2023 Barclays issued a follow up final response to Mrs As complaint. 
Barclays said Mrs A needed to make contact to confirm that she wanted the remaining 
£11,214.70 removed. Barclays also apologised for discussing the circumstances of Mrs As 
complaint with her husband when he called about the block applied to their joint account. 
Barclays paid Mrs A £400 and apologised for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Barclays contacted Mrs A and recorded her consent for the remaining funds to be debited 
from her current account on 24 February 2023 and the full balance owed to N returned. 
Mrs A asked to appeal the investigators view of her complaint and explained Barclays hadnt 
paid the compensation promised in its final response. As Mrs A asked to appeal, her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken the step of issuing a provisional decision as the outcome for Mrs As complaint 
has changed since the investigator issued their findings. Barclays has subsequently looked 
back at Mrs As complaint and upheld it, awarding her £400 compensation. And Barclays 
has now returned the disputed funds to N. As matters have materially changed since the 
investigator issued their view, I need to give both parties a chance to respond before I make 
my final decision.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Ive looked at the overall timeline for Mrs As case and agree that the situation went on for 
longer than was necessary. Based on the information available, including what Mrs As told 
us about her experiences, and Barclays contact notes, I think its fair to say there were 
some genuine misunderstandings between the parties involved. But I agree with Mrs A that 
Barclays provided unclear and somewhat confusing information concerning the process of 
returning the funds.
I recently asked Barclays to explain how it had applied the Clayton Case approach when 
taking funds from Mrs As account last year. But Barclays has confirmed that the Clayton 
Case approach wasnt relevant in this case as this wasnt an instance of fraud. Barclays has 
explained that as Mrs A was asking Barclays to return the payment she received in error it 
ought to have acted on her instruction. I think thats a reasonable point and that Barclays 
could have resolved the situation in September 2022 when it made withdrawals totalling 
£20,971.21. Mrs A had sufficient funds in her current account to repay the full outstanding 
balance at this point.
Whilst I agree that the transfer of funds to different accounts did complicate matters, Im 
satisfied Barclays could have resolved the issue and sent the disputed funds back to N 
earlier than it ultimately did.
Barclays issued a follow up final response to Mrs A in January 2023 and upheld her 
complaint, awarding £400 compensation. Ive considered everything on file and the overall timeline of Mrs As complaint. Having done so, whilst I agree Barclays couldve resolved 
matters sooner, Im satisfied there was confusion over whether Mrs A consented to the funds 
being returned. In my view, the £400 compensation Barclays offered Mrs A fairly reflects the 
service provided and time taken to return the funds to N. To put it another way, the 
settlement is very much in line with what I wouldve told Barclays to pay had no offer been 
made.
As Im satisfied Barclays has already agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mrs As complaint and the funds have now been returned to N Im not 
telling it to do anything further.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments they wanted me to take into 
account before I made my final decision. Barclays confirmed it accepted. We didnt hear 
back from Mrs A. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has supplied new information for me to consider I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mrs As complaint should be 
settled on the basis of Barclays offer of £400, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has made an offer that is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman