DRN-4510574
The complaint
Mr R, Mrs R and Ms R (the complainants) are unhappy that AWP P&C SA turned down 
their travel insurance claim. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
The policy covers cancellation claims in the event of the death of a relative. However, 
the policy definition of relative does not include nephew. I accept that the claim 
therefore isnt strictly covered under the policy terms.
However, Mr R and Mrs R have explained the close relationship they had with their 
nephew. They saw him every week and Mr R was a father figure to his nephew. They 
say they considered him to be like a son to them (a son falls within the policy 
definition of a relative), and I note that even on the claim call Mr R referred to his 
nephew as our child. Taking all of this into account, I agree with our investigator that 
AWP should accept the claim on a fair and reasonable basis. 
The complainants say that AWP misled them about the claim in a phone call, and led 
them to understand the claim would be covered. 
Ive listened to this call. The adviser said that because there was a legal enquiry 
ongoing, they would be covered for that. But he didnt clarify that a claim would only 
be covered if one of them were called as a witness at court. As the adviser didnt give 
the complainants clear information, they obtained their nephews death certificate 
and have explained how this caused a problem in the family.
I also see that the complainants sent AWP emails in January and February 2023, but 
didnt receive a response until March 2023. I think this was poor. 
I require AWP to pay the complainants £250 to recognise the poor service they 
received. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AWP P&C SA to:
Pay the claim in line with the remaining policy terms. Interest should be added at the 
rate of 8% simple per annum paid from a month after the claim was made to the date 
of settlement*.
Pay £250 compensation**.
* If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr R, Mrs R and Ms R how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr R, Mrs R and Ms R a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.   
**AWP must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it that Mr R, 
Mrs R and Ms R accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R, Mrs R and 
Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman