DRN-3856346
The complaint
L complains that HSBC UK Bank PLC has mishandled its requests to amend the 
cardholders for a charge card it held with the bank. 
What happened
L is a small limited company which has a charge card account with HSBC. The company 
had three directors who each held a charge card in their name. Following changes to two of 
the directors, one resigning in 2018 and another sadly passing away in 2020, the company 
sought to have the cardholder names changed to the existing directors.
L says it has made numerous phone calls to HSBC asking that two of the named 
cardholders be removed, and new cards be issued in the names of the two directors that 
were subsequently appointed. But it says that HSBC has failed to take action.
L says on top of the calls it also made contact via emails in April and November 2021.
In April 2022 one of the directors of L made a complaint to HSBC about its failure to amend 
the cardholder names as requested. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint as it said it had never 
received any information seeking amendments to the details for this account.
L was unhappy at HSBCs response and a complaint was made to this service by one of the 
directors on its behalf. Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. 
He said that although L wasnt able to provide proof of the phone calls to HSBC it had 
provided proof of contact with the bank via emails in both April and October 2021. And he 
was satisfied that HSBC had made mistakes in the way it handled this account as it should 
have both removed the two named cardholders and issued two new cards in the new 
directors names in accordance with Ls requests.
Our investigator said it would be fair for HSBC to remove the two cardholders as had been 
requested and to issue new cards in the names provided for the current directors. He said 
HSBC should also refund the charges imposed for the charge card in the name of the 
director who had resigned from April 2021 and from October 2020 for the charge card in the 
name of the director who had passed away.
L agreed with our investigators view, but HSBC has failed to respond.
As the parties have been unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that not having the charge cards in the correct names has caused Ls directors 
inconvenience. It has also been distressing having to deal with an account in the name of a 
director who has died as it is a family business. However, Im not able to consider if 
compensation is appropriate for distress and inconvenience as I would if the complaint had 
been brought by an individual. That is because the complaint has been brought by a 
business rather than a person and a business isnt considered as an entity that can 
experience distress and inconvenience.
HSBC says that it hasnt made an error because no requests were received from L to amend 
the cardholders. L says that multiple efforts were made to have these changes made 
particularly as it made it more awkward for the current directors. I think in these 
circumstances, which included the death of one of the directors, that it is more likely than not 
that L would have sought, via its current directors, to get the position about the named 
cardholders rectified.
While I understand L cant provide proof of the calls it made, it has sent in evidence that in 
April 2021 a request for a new business debit card was received by HSBC who in response 
issued an automated reply providing a code for the downloading of a form that needed to be 
printed, completed, signed and returned. 
L has also provided email correspondence from November 2021 which is between one of 
the directors and a Relationship Manager for HSBC. In this correspondence the Relationship 
Manager apologises that the bank hasnt updated Ls account correctly.  They request that 
the director completes a new mandate for the business via a link. The director responds that 
they had already completed this form and no action was taken but will do so again. This 
action is then corroborated by an automated response from HSBC providing a code to use to 
access the form.
While I appreciate the email evidence isnt absolute proof the forms were correctly 
completed, I think it does contradict what HSBC has said that no requests as to amending 
the information on this account had been received. So, Im satisfied that from at least April 
2021 L had requested the changes in respect of the cardholders for the charge card and that 
HSBC failed to act on those instructions.
I also understand that each of the charge cards issued by HSBC has an annual fee applied. I 
think it would be fair for the fees imposed on two of these charge cards to be refunded to L 
since they were in the wrong names and so unusable. I think that for one of the cards these 
fees should be refunded from April 2021, but for the card in the name of the director who is 
deceased, that reimbursement should be backdated to October 2020, being the date they 
had passed away.
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Ls complaint. 
Putting things right
Im asking HSBC to do the following:
Remove the two named cardholders as requested.
Reimburse the card fees charged on one card from April 2021 until the date of 
settlement.
Reimburse the card fees charged on the second card from October 2020 until the 
date of settlement.
Our investigator had also requested that HSBC provide charge cards in the names of the 
current directors, but I understand L doesnt require this, so I havent added this part to the 
settlement.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Ls complaint. Im asking HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
do the following:
Remove the two named cardholders as requested.
Reimburse the card fees charged on one card from April 2021 until the date of 
settlement.
Reimburse the card fees charged on the second card from October 2020 until the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman