DRN-4064318
The complaint
Mr P complains about U K Insurance Limited (trading as Green Flag)s handling of his 
Roadside Assistance Insurance claim. 
All references to U K Insurance, I shall refer to as UKI below, also include its appointed 
agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and so I uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
UKI have presented possible scenarios for what might have happened, but this isnt 
supported by any inspections of the vehicle.
The only expert opinion or report available is from the garage Mr Ps vehicle was 
taken to (G). I can see they noted evidence of metal fillings in the sump and the 
warning light had come on. They said the vehicle shouldnt have been driven and it 
was showing clear signs of the timing chain issue when it arrived at the garage. Its 
concluded there was an oil pressure issue, and the timing belt issue consequentially 
would have been a result of the vehicle continuing to be used.
I understand the timing belt issue described by G could happen simply by the car just 
being started, so I dont consider it relevant whether the vehicle moved or not. 
UKIs notes say its agent checked the vehicle and found no fault code, reset the 
system and the light had gone off. Theres no evidence of an issue being diagnosed 
at the roadside, and it also noted Mr P had concerns about continuing his journey but 
was told he could do so.
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the likely sequence of events set out by our 
investigator - that its more likely than not the oil pressure issue was present before 
UKI attended the call out to Mr P, UKI removed the warning light, Mr P was advised 
the car was ok to drive, when it should have been recovered, and consequentially 
there was an impact to the timing chain, causing the issues set out by G.
Therefore, having considered everything, I think its reasonable UKI cover the cost of 
replacing the timing chain, and its associated costs, for the reasons Ive set out.
UKI accepted it could have provided a better level of service to Mr P at the time of 
the breakdown. Mr P experienced multiple issues throughout the day of the call out, 
including long waiting periods and being given incorrect information. UKI have 
offered Mr P £150 compensation, and I think in the circumstances this fairly 
recognises the inconvenience Mr P has been caused.
So, for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right UKI should:
Pay the costs Mr P incurred to replace the timing chain. If necessary, UKI can 
request sufficient proof of costs such as invoices.
8% simple interest should be paid on this amount, from the date Mr P paid the 
amount to the date UKI makes payment.
Pay Mr P £150 compensation, if it has not done so already.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint.
To put things right I direct U K Insurance Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman