DRN-3055691
The complaint
 Mrs S complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) relates to two loans Barclays 
provided to her and which she says were unaffordable.
What happened
 The two loans Mrs S took were for £11,700 and £11,300 both over 5 years. The first was in 
July 2017 and the second in May 2019. At the time Mrs S was not employed. There is no 
dispute about when and how Mrs S applied for the loans.
Mrs S complained to Barclays, but as it didnt agree that the loans had been unaffordable 
she approached this service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. 
Our investigator thought that Mrs S couldnt afford the loans she was given, and that 
Barclays should reimburse the interest and charges she paid on them leaving as a balance, 
the amount of money lent to her, less what she had repaid. Our investigator also thought that 
Barclays should discuss a repayment plan with Mrs S for any outstanding balance and also 
remove any adverse data that had been recorded on her credit file. The investigator didnt 
think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Barclays to write off all the outstanding balance 
since she had had the benefit of the borrowed money. 
Barclays agreed with our investigators view. It refunded the interest on both loans reducing 
the balance to £7,299.48. It also said it could offer Mrs S a repayment plan over 5 years in 
order to pay the outstanding balance and estimated that would work out at around £120 per 
month. It also said it could remove any adverse data but was concerned that if it set up a 
repayment plan and Mrs S circumstances hadnt changed, then she would likely default 
again.
Mrs S thought Barclays should pay her, in addition to what our investigator suggested, 
compensation for the trouble it had caused, and so asked for the complaint to be passed to 
an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I know that my summary of what happened has been brief and I can confirm Ive read all of 
Mrs S communications so I am aware she went into a lot more detail. But Im going to focus 
now on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the 
nature of our service as being an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something 
Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need 
to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
In agreeing to repay the interest applied to both loans, whilst Barclays havent formally 
accepted it lent irresponsibly, it has removed a large part of Mrs S complaint. My own 
assessment on this issue was in line with our investigator as it was clear to me that Mrs S 
was unemployed at the time the loans were granted, and given their duration and size I 
would have expected greater checks to have been carried out, and had they been I think it 
would have become obvious that the loans were not affordable.
But what Mrs S complaint now boils down to is whether she should be awarded some 
additional compensation for the trouble and upset she has had. On the one hand I must take 
account of the fact that Mrs S has had the benefit of a sizeable loan, which was used to a 
large part to pay off existing credit. That has been candidly accepted by her and of course I 
acknowledge that in paying off that other credit it will have removed any associated worry. 
Balanced against that Mrs S has received debt recovery action letters which have caused 
her worry and I note from the final response letter to Barclays that Mrs S had told them of 
her worry and the impact and effect upon her husbands mental health. Whilst I have 
received no direct evidence of the actual impact upon either Mrs S or her husbands mental 
health I can happily accept that being in debt of any sort will be stressful and Mrs S will have 
been naturally concerned for her husband.  
I know Mrs S husband has made the point that in Barclays simply crediting the interest back 
to Mrs S, it isnt enough, and he has raised the question of Barclays paying either a penalty 
or damages. Our investigator touched on this point but nevertheless I confirm that this 
service doesnt have the power to punish Barclays as we are not their regulator. That would 
be for The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
But we can suggest in appropriate cases that compensation should be paid. When we 
consider the level of compensation we take into account a variety of factors, including the 
trouble, upset, distress and inconvenience that may have been caused. The awards we 
make can be categorised within the brackets of modest, substantial, severe or extreme, and 
examples of these can be found on our website. 
But there is no set figure or table of awards we can turn to, and given that each case is 
different, it is ultimately an exercise of judgement in looking at all the circumstances of the 
case and deciding what feels fair and reasonable.
Looking at the evidence provided and considering what Ive read of the impact upon Mrs S, it 
seems to me that in this case an award is appropriate and that it should fall within the 
moderate bracket. I do therefore think that £100 is a fair and reasonable recompense.
Both Barclays and Mrs Ss husband responded to my provisional decision. Barclays didnt 
dispute the substance of my decision but Mrs S husband said that the loan had actually 
been used to pay instalments on existing loans not pay any off. He also described in more 
detail the impact he felt this had had on his wifes health and the subsequent entry into an 
IVA. I have considered these additional comments but it doesnt change my view as to the 
level of compensation which should be awarded. I have reconsidered the amount and I do 
feel it is fair and reasonable and so do not change it.
Putting things right
 Barclays Bank UK PLC has already agreed to credit the interest it charged to Mrs S and to 
remove any adverse data from her credit file which had been applied because of the loans. It 
has also agreed it would offer a repayment plan to Mrs S which she is considering whether to take up. So, in relation to the loan I dont think I need to tell Barclays to do anything 
further.
But I do think Barclays should also pay Mrs S compensation for the trouble and upset to 
settle this complaint and my decision is that they should pay her £100 as I think that is fair 
and reasonable. 
My final decision
 So, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC shall pay Mrs S £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman