DRN-3883692
The complaint
Mr S complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) have declined a claim 
he made on his breakdown policy. 
Acromas are the underwriters of the policy and so are the business responsible for declining 
the claim. 
What happened
On 30 August 2022, Mr S contacted the roadside assistance company to come and look at 
his vehicle. The roadside assistant explained that the problem couldnt be fixed at the 
roadside and the vehicle would need to be taken to a garage. 
Mr S says The assistant never checked the odometer reading but asked me if I remember 
the mileage off the top of my head whilst I was heading back to the van to sign paperwork, 
which I stated was roughly 140k at last check (it is only briefly displayed digitally when 
turning on the vehicle and then disappears). 
Once the vehicle had been repaired by the garage, Mr S submitted a claim to Acromas 
because the policy covered him for up to £535 towards the cost of the repairs. 
Acromas declined Mr Ss claim. It said that Mr S had driven around 800 miles in between the 
time of the breakdown call out and the car being taken to the garage. It said it had declined 
the claim on the basis that vehicle, having accrued such significant milage, wasnt broken 
down or unable to continue its journey safely.
Mr S insists that he didnt drive the car this much  he said he drove approximately two miles 
to take the car to the garage. And he said he works from home and doesnt need to use the 
car. He added that he wouldnt have used the car because he didnt want to cause further 
damage to it. 
The Investigator looked into things for Mr S but they didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that Mr S hadnt disputed the mileage once he received the job sheet from the 
roadside assistance firm. And theyd seen evidence from Acromas to show that Mr Ss 
mileage was generally quite high. Ultimately, the Investigator thought that Acromas had fairly 
relied on the terms and conditions of the policy when it declined the claim. 
Mr S didnt agree with the Investigator and asked for an Ombudsman to decide on his 
complaint. He sent this service evidence to show that the roadside assistance didnt always 
accurately record mileage when it attended a breakdown  the evidence shows that for a call 
out made on 23 November 2022, the roadside assistance recorded his mileage as 5,555  
which is clearly wrong. 
Because Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me, I wont be upholding Mr Ss complaint. I know 
this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr S, however I will explain my reason for this 
decision below.
The terms of the policy say: 
(The vehicle must be taken to a garage without delay if it cannot be fixed at the roadside, 
any delay or continued use will affect the validity of a potential claim).
They also say that: 
The insurer will to pay up to £535 per Paid Claim towards the costs of repair or replacement 
to insured parts, labour and VAT following a Breakdown which occurs during the Period of 
Insurance.
Breakdown is defined, amongst other things as, 
A sudden or unexpected event involving the Nominated Vehicle:
.. c) that has prevented the Nominated Vehicle from starting or continuing its journey 
safely;
Based on the evidence Ive seen, the roadside assistance attended Mr Ss vehicle on 30 
August 2022. And Mr S first took his vehicle to the garage for repairs on 19 September 2022. 
Which is 19 days after the call out. So there does appear to be some delay here in Mr S 
taking the vehicle to the garage. 
The roadside assistant recorded the mileage at the time of call out as 139,580, and the 
garage recorded the mileage at 140,364. If these figures are correct, this would mean the 
car was driven 784 miles between call out and Mr S taking the car to the garage, which is, in 
my view excessive. And doesnt suggest that the vehicle was prevented from starting or 
continuing a journey safely.
But Mr S disputes the mileage recorded at the roadside. He says the roadside assistant 
asked him what the mileage was off the top of his head, and he said he told the roadside 
assistant the mileage was around 140,000. Mr S says the mileage recorded wasnt an 
accurate reflection of the actual mileage, because it was a figure he guessed at the time. 
I accept its possible the mileage recorded by the roadside assistant wasnt accurate. The 
evidence Mr S has sent this service does go some way to proving that mileage clearly isnt 
always recorded correctly. But in this instance, the mileage wasnt recorded at 140,000 (like 
Mr S says he told the assistant), it was recorded at 139,580, which is a much more specific 
figure. It seems unlikely that the mileage would be recorded as something so specific, when 
Mr S had told the roadside assistant that it was a round figure of 140,000. 
I have thought about the evidence Mr S has sent to show mileage isnt always recorded 
properly. But all this shows me is that it wasnt recorded correctly on that occasion. And it 
isnt always recorded accurately. It doesnt tell me that what was recorded on 30 August 
2022 was wrong. Mr S does have my sympathy here. It is now difficult for him to be able to prove what he 
says about the mileage not being recorded accurately at the roadside. The only evidence I 
have which shows the mileage at that time is what was recorded by the roadside assistant 
on the breakdown report. Mr S hasnt been able to show me anything else that satisfies me 
that what was recorded isnt correct. 
Mr S was also given the opportunity after the call out to tell Acromas that the mileage 
recorded was wrong. He was sent a copy of the breakdown report, which clearly shows the 
mileage. I would have expected Mr S to have let Acromas know at this stage if the mileage 
on the report wasnt accurate, but I havent seen that he did that. 
I know Mr S will be disappointed by this, but there is very little evidence available for me to 
be able to agree with what hes said about the mileage being wrong. And hes not been able 
to provide any evidence to show what the mileage was at the time or prove that it was 
recorded incorrectly. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute about the mileage the garage recorded. I have 
listened to the call where Acromas contacted the garage to find out what the mileage was. 
And I can confirm that what the garage told Acromas has been recorded correctly. 
Acromas has also sent this service additional information about the other call outs Mr S 
made for breakdown assistance. Each call out shows the mileage recorded at the time of the 
call out. I have recorded the dates of the call outs below alongside the mileage recorded at 
the time:
30 June 2022  136,842 miles
30 August 2022  139,580 miles
12 December 2022  144,174 miles
Mr S didnt take his vehicle to the garage for around 19 days after he made the call out on 30 
August. So based on the mileage recorded at the separate roadside call outs, it does appear 
that Mr Ss vehicle was generally used for a lot of miles. So, I find it possible that Mr Ss 
vehicle could have been driven 784 miles between the call out and taking it to the garage. 
Having considered all of the evidence available to me, I havent seen any evidence to 
persuade me that the mileage recorded at the time of call out was incorrect, or that the 
garage also recorded the mileage incorrectly. For the reasons set out above, I think its likely 
that Mr Ss car was driven an excessive amount after the call out and before he took it to the 
garage. And so, based on the policy terms, I dont think Acromas decision to decline Mr Ss 
claim was an unreasonable one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman