DRN-3964179
The complaint
Mrs B, represented by her daughter, Ms M, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund 
transactions that she says were carried out without her consent.
What happened
Ms M says that her mothers account has been subject to unusual activity since 2014 and, 
since December 2020, large sums were removed from her account. Some of the 
transactions were carried out using online banking, which Ms M says Mrs B didnt have and 
didnt know how to use.  
Mrs B believes that her son, whom she was living with after returning from another country, 
carried out the activity. Lloyds considered the matter to be a family dispute and advised Mrs 
B to report the loss to the police.
Mrs B was unwilling to do this, so referred the matter to our service. Our Investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. They were of the view that there was nothing suspicious about the 
payments and without Mrs Bs sons testimony, or a police investigation, it wasnt possible to 
say that Mrs Bs funds were taken without her consent.
Ms M strongly disagreed. She said that it was irrelevant whether Mrs B reported the matter 
to the police and there was no obligation on her to do so. She pointed out that the same 
regulations applied regardless of whether this action was taken and Mrs Bs funds had been 
left in the care of the bank. She said that her mother had not been negligent but was 
vulnerable. In addition, she alleged that Lloyds had failed to confirm Mrs Bs identity when 
the internet banking facility was set up.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about whats happened. I can imagine how upsetting these events have 
been, particularly when they involve family members. 
Ms M has made two main allegations:
-That Mrs B didnt consent to the activity that took place; and
-That Lloyds failed to pick up on the activity as being out of character and unusual and 
follow its own procedures for confirming the identity of customers.
As Ms M has pointed out, the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSR 2017) dictate that 
an account holder will not generally be responsible for transactions they havent carried out 
themselves or given authority to another person to carry out. So, a finding that Mrs B didnt 
give any consent for the payments which took place and didnt fail with intent or gross 
negligence to keep her account secure would result in liability for Lloyds. Its important to 
note that it is recognised in law that transactions can be considered authorised where a third 
party is acting (or even appears to be acting) under a broad authority given by the account 
holder (whether or not the account holder has given specific authority for a particular 
transaction). So, while Ms M has questioned exactly how each payment was authorised, I 
think the relevant question is whether its more likely than not that the person making the 
payments was acting with Mrs Bs broad or specific authority (or apparent authority) or not. 
In addition, taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, should it be found that 
Lloyds ought to have realised that Mrs B was at risk of financial harm from fraud but failed to 
take action and that failure would have prevented the loss, it would also be liable. 
But, neither of the above findings are straightforward to decide. Ms M quite rightly points out 
that in many fraud cases the alleged perpetrator will be unknown and, as such, impossible to 
report to the police. But its exactly because the alleged perpetrator is not only known to Mrs 
B, but shared a close relationship with her, that makes those findings more difficult to make. 
I understand that Mrs Bs son denies any wrongdoing. We do not have his account of events 
and are unlikely to ever receive it. But its highly likely that he disputes that the payments he 
made were taken without Mrs Bs authority. A police investigation might be able to establish 
whose version of events is true, but I fully accept that it might not. 
But in the absence of a formal police investigation, Im left with little more than Mrs Bs 
account of events (as reported by Ms M). And, as I understand it, Mrs B has been diagnosed 
with dementia and the banks notes quote Ms M as saying she has a poor memory and is 
very forgetful. I also have to consider that in a close relationship  such as the one between 
parent and child  there is often considerable trust.
Ive thought about Mrs Bs account of events  that she denies granting any authority to her 
son, that she didnt set up or use online banking, didnt know a card existed for the account 
and that she was shocked to learn that money had been removed from her account. 
But Im also mindful that Mrs B seems to have given authority to other people to manage her 
finances or make decisions for her in the past. There was a third-party mandate on her 
account for the benefit of another of her daughters. And, more importantly, Mrs Bs son 
seems to have obtained Power of Attorney (POA) over Mrs B. I havent seen that 
document and I dont know whether the POA covered Mrs Bs financial affairs. I do know that 
it was never registered with Lloyds. However, as Ms M is aware, for a POA to be put in 
place, Mrs B would have to have signed a document confirming that she understood the 
process. That document would have to be countersigned by someone Mrs B knew well or a 
professional, such as a solicitor. I know Ms M has raised some concerns about how the POA 
was obtained, but I havent seen any evidence shes attempted to formally challenge it. So, 
in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I have to conclude that Mrs B willingly gave her 
son the Power of Attorney. The relevance of that finding is that it further suggests a close 
relationship and one in which Mrs B was prepared to let her son act on her behalf.
I also understand that a significant amount of the money was spent on improvements to one 
of Mrs Bs childrens homes and this was contrary to Mrs Bs wishes as she was expecting 
her own home to undergo improvement. It strikes me as odd that Mrs Bs son would spend 
money in this way if it was illicitly obtained and I dont think its unreasonable to suggest that 
Mrs B might have (at some point) agreed to and approved of this use of her money. 
Overall, Im afraid the weight of evidence (albeit limited) as it stands does not support the 
finding that Mrs Bs son acted without her authority. That means I dont think the bank is liable for her losses under the PSR 2017. And, even if I accepted there had been a failure by 
the bank to intervene and question the payments or take additional steps to identify Mrs B 
when internet banking was set up, I wouldnt be persuaded that those failures caused Mrs B 
loss. I cannot safely conclude that Mrs B wouldnt have consented to the activity if asked. 
And, though I acknowledge Mrs B may have been vulnerable, given the nature of the 
transactions and the circumstances Ive set out, I think Lloyds could have reasonably taken 
any consent as being freely given. 
So, while I appreciate this has been a distressing experience for Mrs B and her family, Im 
not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman