Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr M says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold him the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Barclaycard had to make it clear to Mr M that he had a choice about it. 
But Mr M says it wasnt made clear to him that the PPI was optional.
Barclaycard says the PPI was taken out around a month after the credit card, and that the 
credit card wasnt used before the sale of the PPI. So its likely the PPI was sold during a 
phone call to activate the credit card.
Barclaycard has sent us a copy of the script it says wouldve been used in these types of 
calls around this time. And the script instructs the advisor to ask the customer whether they 
would like to take the PPI.
Based on the evidence I have and what I understand about Barclaycards sales practices at 
the time, I think its likely the call with Mr M largely followed the script. And so I think 
Barclaycard did make it clear to him that he had a choice about the PPI.
Barclaycard says it recommended the PPI to Mr M, so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him. And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The 
policy couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. 
And hes told us he didnt have any savings or other means he couldve used to make his 
repayments if he wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for him, Barclaycard had to give Mr M clear information 
about the policy. Its possible the information it gave him wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, for the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would have 
been useful for Mr M if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put Mr M off taking it out.
Which means Barclaycard doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
DRN-1105054But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
 Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Barclaycard didnt tell Mr M,
that was unfair.
 To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman