DRN-4079390
The complaint
Mrs D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund money she lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
In 2022, Mrs D wanted to have some building work completed on her home. Mrs D says 
shed already received quotes and was drawing up plans when she received a letter from K 
asking if she was interested in having building work completed. 
K and his partner attended her property and gave her a quote, which Mrs D says was the 
cheapest shed received. Ks quote set out the cost for the work as £190,000 (excluding 
VAT), said the work would take approximately 22 weeks to complete from the agreed start 
date and broke down the payment into eight stages of completion.
As part of her checks on K and his company, Mrs D looked at their website which she says 
looked legitimate. She also read reviews and says they were positive, with only one negative 
review in relation to drainage work. K told her that they replaced the drains in that case. K 
also referred her to two satisfied customers and suggested Mrs D go and view the work 
done on their properties, saying the customers were happy to talk to Mrs D. Mrs D says they 
both gave a positive review of K and the work hed done.
Mrs D engaged K to complete the work and made her first payment on 25 March 2022 for 
£25,000, being part of the deposit payable - as set out in the contract. The total deposit 
payable was £30,000 and Mrs D made this over two payments. Below are all the payments 
Mrs D made as part of her contract with K.
Date of payment Payee and invoice description Amount of payment
25 March 2022 K - deposit £25,000
28 March 2022 K - deposit £ 5,000
6 May 2022 K  stage 1 foundation £20,000
9 May 2022 K  stage 1 foundation £ 5,000
30 May 2022 K  stage 2 drainage £15,000
1 June 2022 K  stage 2 drainage £10,000
Total payments made £80,000
Mrs D says that after receiving the last payment of £10,000 in June 2022, K took all the 
building materials off the site and didnt return to complete the work. Shes also unhappy with 
the quality of the work that was completed, saying removal of the chimney left a hole in the 
roof she had to get fixed. Ms D says her family had to move into a rental property while the 
work was being completed on their home and theyve been left with an uninhabitable 
property and no money to complete the outstanding work.
Mrs D contacted HSBC at the end of June 2022, when she was unable to get in touch with 
K. HSBC raised a fraud claim for Mrs D but declined to refund her, saying they considered 
the matter to be a civil dispute between her and K.
 
Mrs D wasnt happy with HSBCs response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mrs Ds complaint but didnt uphold it. On balance, the 
investigator thought it was most likely K was operating as a genuine business and felt      
Mrs Ds payments were part of a civil dispute with K  as opposed to being part of a scam  
so they couldnt hold HSBC liable for her loss.
Mrs D disagreed with the investigators opinion saying:
There were other people who also used Ks services who were dissatisfied. She 
provided messages from those third parties, including one which said that Ks work 
had to be removed as it was deemed unsafe and didnt meet the building regulations.
She had concerns over the people K hired to do the work.
Concerns were also voiced by an employee that was brought in to oversee the work.
As the case couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC are a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have 
been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. However, the CRM Code does not apply to private civil disputes, such as 
where a customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services or digital content but has 
not received them, they are defective in some way, or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied 
with the supplier.
So, I can only apply the CRM Code to Mrs Ds payments or consider HSBCs liability to her 
under the CRM Code, if Im satisfied that the payments were made as part of a scam. As 
opposed to a situation where K didnt fulfil the contract with Mrs D due to, for example, his 
business failing, which would be considered a civil dispute and not be covered the Code.
 
Is HSBC required to refund Mrs D under the CRM Code?
I can see that Ks business was incorporated and registered with Companies House in 2019. 
In August 2022 they went into voluntary liquidation with a liquidator appointed. Based on the 
information available, it appears they were trading until some time in 2022. 
Mrs D raised a complaint with the police and has given us some of the emails shes 
exchanged with them. One of these emails says the police concluded that Ks bank 
transactions correspond to what he claims to have spent on business expenses, both to pay 
wages and buy materials. Mrs D has told us that she believes the polices comments related 
to Ks personal account and not the business account she sent her payments to. However, 
weve had confidential information provided by Ks bank which mirrors what the police have 
said, and this information relates to the account Mrs D made her payments to. I havent seen 
anything in that information that suggests to me Ks account was being run in a way that 
would suggest fraudulent activity.
Mrs D has provided evidence of other customers dissatisfaction with the quality of Ks work, 
however dissatisfaction with the quality of work is more suggestive of a civil dispute. Also, I 
have to take into account that before Mrs D agreed to work with K, she talked to two of their customers who provided positive reviews for their work. It appears that at least one of the 
consumers later expressed dissatisfaction, however at the point Mrs D talked to them there 
was nothing to suggest that they had concerns.
I realise that K didnt complete the contract, left the property in an uninhabitable state and 
that materials were removed from the building site in June 2022. But having carefully 
weighed up all of the information and evidence, Im not satisfied that I can safely conclude 
that K set out with the intention to defraud Mrs D at the time she made the payments.
 
Everything Ive seen persuades me its more likely than not that Ks business failed, which 
resulted in them being unable to complete the contracted work. On that basis, I think Mrs Ds 
complaint against K is a civil dispute, which means I cant apply the CRM Code to her 
payments or ask HSBC to refund her due to any liability under the CRM Code.
 
But I have gone on to consider whether HSBC shouldve identified an APP scam risk and 
whether intervention wouldve made a difference.
Can I fairly hold HSBC liable to refund Mrs D for any other reason?
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. But a bank also has to be on the lookout for, and help 
to prevent payments, that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. So, even if a 
payment isnt covered by the CRM Code, there are situations where we would expect banks 
to identify a scam risk and intervene, and in some cases expect the bank not to follow the 
customers payment instruction.
 
Having looked at Mrs Ds previous account usage, I think the first payment she made to K for 
£25,000 was so unusual and out of character that I wouldve expected HSBC to have 
identified a scam risk and intervened. However, in these circumstances I dont think 
intervention wouldve made a difference and Ill explain why.
Due to the size of the payment, I wouldve expected intervention by HSBC to involve a call to 
Mrs D to discuss the payment and the circumstances surrounding it. Id expect HSBC to ask 
questions about the purpose of the payment, what checks Mrs D had done on the builder, 
how shed found them, and further probing questions based on the information provided.
In this case, Mrs D became aware of K via a letter sent to her out of the blue. This is 
unusual, and I wouldve expected HSBC to ask questions about what checks Mrs D had 
done to make sure K was a genuine business. I think Mrs D wouldve told HSBC that she 
had talked to other customers of Ks and been to inspect the work hed done  and that the 
feedback shed been given was positive. Mrs D is also likely to have confirmed that shed 
checked the businesses website and read online reviews which were mostly positive, but 
that shed questioned the one negative review and received a response from K that 
reassured her. At the time Ks business was registered on Companies House and there were 
no indications to suggest that the company was in difficulties.
 
I think all of the information that was available to Mrs D, including the checks shed done, the 
contract she had from K and the meeting shed had with K and his partner at her property 
wouldve suggested that Mrs D was dealing with a legitimate business and wouldnt have 
required further intervention from HSBC. In these circumstances, I wouldnt have expected 
HSBC to have prevented the payment as there was nothing to suggest that Mrs D was 
potentially the victim of the scam.As Mrs D made further payments, I wouldnt have expected further intervention from HSBC. I 
say this because the following five payments were made to the same payee, were all for 
£20,000 or less (which is lower than the original payment) and were spread out with at least 
four weeks between the payments. As such, I dont think the subsequent payments were 
unusual or out of character. 
Having considered the information available at the time Mrs D made the payments to K, I 
would only expect HSBC to have intervened when she made the first payment and Im not 
satisfied that HSBC couldve or shouldve prevented her from making the payments to K. So, 
I cant fairly hold them liable for her loss.
I realise that Mrs D has lost a large sum of money which has seriously impacted her health 
and left her with financial difficulties. Unfortunately though, I cant fairly ask HSBC to refund 
her or hold them liable for her loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman