DRN-3406528
The complaint
Mr Ps representative has complained, on his behalf, that FB Wealth Management Ltd,  
trading as Forrester Boyd Wealth Management (FBWM), gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer his defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a personal pension plan (PPP).   
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of 
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund 
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when 
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31 
March 2017. 
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ps employer would be set up  the BSPS 2. 
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit 
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was 
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in 
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor 
scheme, BSPS 2, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or into a private arrangement, such as 
a PPP.
A deadline was set for members to notify the scheme administrators as to their choice by 
December 2017. 
Mr P met with FBWM in late July 2016 and his circumstances were recorded as follows:
He was 55 years old and single, with no dependent children. 
He was employed, earning £38,000 pa and with an annual cost of living of £15,000.
He owned his home, valued at £170,000, with no outstanding mortgage. 
He had cash savings of £40,000, along with investment ISA funds worth around 
£300,000.
He was recorded as having a high risk attitude towards investing.
Mr P had been a member of the BSPS for 38 years. Hed opted out of the scheme 
with effect from 31 May 2016.
Mr P was considering retirement in the next few years.
Mr P was in good health.
He had limited knowledge and experience of financial services and products.  
In terms of Mr Ps deferred benefit entitlement, he had a normal retirement age of 65, at 
which point FBWM said that he could expect an annual income of £28,007. 
At Mr Ps desired retirement age of 56, this would be £15,403 pa.
Mr P received a transfer value from the BSPS for his deferred benefits of £260,118, which 
was guaranteed until 11 October 2016. 
Within the suitability report produced in September 2016, Mr Ps preferences and priorities 
were recorded as follows:
To choose and manage his pension investment strategy.
To have the flexibility in taking an income form the pension and make changes to this 
as required.
To leave a legacy for his nieces and nephews.
Mr P didnt want an ongoing service or any financial advice. He had asked that the advice be 
limited to the matter of the transfer of his BSPS defined benefits.
The TVAS indicated the amount of growth required by the transferred funds to match those 
being relinquished in the scheme  the critical yield. It concluded that the PPP would need to 
grow by 15.35% pa to match the BSPS benefits at a retirement age of 65. FBWM said that it 
didnt consider this to be achievable consistently and Mr Ps retirement income in retirement 
was likely to be lower overall as a result of the transfer.
But it also said that the amount of income offered by the scheme wasnt needed  rather an 
estimated income of £4,500 would be needed by Mr P and the critical yield to achieve this 
would be significantly lower.
The critical yield required to match the scheme benefits at age 56 hadnt been calculated, 
but the TVAS said that it was in excess of 50% pa.
A projection was also made of the required yield to match the PPF benefits. This showed 
that, for age 65, the PPP would need to grow by 9.45% pa to match the PPF benefits.
FBWM also provided the hurdle rate, which it said was the estimated annual investment 
return which the PPP would need to achieve to match the annual income Mr P would receive 
from the BSPS at age 65. This assumed no spouses pension, no increases in payment, and 
no guarantee. The hurdle rate was 8.41% pa. 
FBWM recommended that Mr P transfer his deferred benefits to a PPP in order for him to 
achieve his objectives, and Mr P accepted the recommendation. 
The fee to advise on the transfer was £1,500, and 3% of the transfer value if the transfer 
proceeded. 
Mr P complained to FBWM, through his representative, in February 2020, saying that he 
didnt think hed been given the right advice and that hed suffered financial loss as a result.
FBWM didnt uphold the complaint, however, saying the following in summary:
Mr P had anticipated that he would retire in May 2017, requiring an income of 
£15,000 pa to cover expenditure.
He wanted the flexibility to manage his investments, take income flexibly (and tax 
efficiently), and leave a financial legacy for his nieces and nephews.
Mr P was concerned that the scheme would fall into the PPF, which would prevent any transfer into a personal arrangement.
Mr P had sought to transfer his pension benefits to another provider and had already 
been in contact with them about setting up an account and receiving the transferred 
funds.
Mr P had already obtained details of his transfer value and deferred pension and 
required advice to enable him to make a decision before the former expired.
He had no health issues and didnt want to lock himself into a guaranteed income.
The primary driver behind the transfer was the facility to take income from his ISA 
funds, draw pension income up to his personal allowance and drip feed the tax free 
cash  which would ensure that he paid no income tax in retirement. He also wanted 
to leave a legacy to his nieces and nephews  neither of these objectives could have 
been achieved through the scheme benefits.
Mr P wanted to manage his post-transfer pension funds, and was seeking advice on 
the merits of the transfer, which also needed to be sought due to the transfer value 
being in excess of £30,000.
Cash flow modelling confirmed the affordability of the transfer. Mr P wouldnt be 
eligible for an enhanced annuity as he was in good health.
Mr P had built up over £300,000 in ISAs, which he managed himself. He also saved 
approximately £10,000 pa.
FBWMs adviser deemed there to be a risk of the scheme falling into the PPF, which 
meant that Mr P wouldnt be able to meet his objectives.
The retirement options questionnaire completed by Mr P demonstrated the 
objectives set out by FBWM.
A customer satisfaction survey completed by Mr P after the transfer showed that, 
although he knew he could have obtained the same service for less money 
elsewhere, he was keen to complete it quickly, which was achieved through FBWM.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr P submitted his complaint to this service through his 
representative.
Our investigation
One of our investigators considered the matter, and recommended that the complaint not be 
upheld. He said the following in summary:
Mr P had accrued 38 years benefits in the BSPS, which were relatively secure. They 
would form a significant part of his pension provision, and although the 50% spouses 
pension would have offered no benefits for him, the safeguarded nature of his own 
benefits was valuable, at low cost.
The regulators requirement when considering a transfer of defined benefits was that 
it should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
In determining whether this was the case, he first considered the required critical yield to match the scheme benefits. 
The advice had been given during the period in which this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates for 
complaints about transfers which were being upheld. 
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The investigator noted that the discount rate was 3.7% pa for a period of nine years 
to retirement, compared to a required critical yield to match the BSPS benefits of 
15.35%. The discount rate of 2.3% applied to age 56, compared to a critical yield of 
over 50%.
He said that this meant the potential to improve on the BSPS benefits was 
compromised  the critical yield was too high. 
However, he considered that the requirement to match the BSPS benefits was 
somewhat negated as Mr P was single and had no financial dependants. By 
transferring, Mr P would have ensured that the value of those benefits was passed to 
him.
Therefore, whilst the critical yield was unachievable, it was of less importance in 
determining the transfers suitability.
Mr P had been recorded as having a high risk attitude, and had a history of investing 
his ISA funds since 2007, albeit Mr P had said that this was adviser-led. 
Nevertheless, the investigator noted that Mr P would have witnessed the reductions 
in value caused by the financial crisis in 2008. As such, the investigator concluded 
that, in light of this experience and Mr Ps high risk investment attitude, he was 
likely prepared to take a risk with his pension for the sake of higher returns, tax 
efficiency and flexibility of income.
Mr Ps capacity for loss was also evident, as he was a homeowner with no mortgage 
or other liabilities, held £40,000 (£15,000 of which was earmarked for planned 
expenditure) in cash deposits and over £300,000 in ISA funds.
Mr P also initiated the contact with FBWM and had established a receiving scheme 
prior to obtaining advice. Mr P was also involved in liaising between the ceding 
scheme, including establishing its requirements, and FBWM.
Taking the above into account, along with Mr Ps comments in the post transfer 
customer satisfaction survey, the investigator concluded that Mr P was keen that the 
transfer occur as quickly as possible and that, had FBWM not facilitated it, Mr P 
would have transferred through another firm.
The investigator also noted that Mr P wished to retire a year later, at age 56, and 
would have been concerned that his pension funds could enter the PPF. It would 
have been reasonable for Mr P to have wanted as much personal benefit for himself 
(i.e. without factoring in the funding of aspects such as the spouses and dependants 
benefit) as possible to be secured by way of the transfer.He also considered that the suitability letter and TVAS had been comprehensive in 
setting out the PPF provisions and amounts which might be payable at age 65.
Although the initial TVAS said that the pension payable from the scheme at ages 65 
and 56 would be £28,007 pa and £2,249 pa respectively, the subsequent TVAS 
detailed the early retirement pension as £15,403 pa, which was the correct figure. 
This corrected amount was also set out in the suitability report, and the investigator 
was confident that Mr P would have understood the scheme benefits he was 
relinquishing.
The investigator acknowledged that Mr Ps safeguarded benefits would have met the 
majority of his expenditure, but the recommendation also catered for meeting his 
requirements by alternative means which allowed Mr P to achieve his stated 
objectives, i.e. reducing his inheritance tax liability by using ISA returns as income, or 
by drawing down pension funds should he need to. And if he didnt, the pension 
funds would continue to grow tax efficiently, but remain outside of his estate to 
benefit his nieces and nephews.
The transfer also facilitated the further objective of self management for Mr P, who 
was clearly keen to minimise advice costs, which was the reason why there was no 
comprehensive analysis of his ISA assets. But his existing portfolio would ensure 
diversification.
Mr P had wanted advice on the transfer only, and although FBWM still needed to 
ensure it was suitable, the investigator considered that the advice was reasonable.
A further benefit to the transfer was the flexibility of income, which would enable Mr P 
to reduce any that he was withdrawing from pension funds when he began to receive 
the state pension  rather than receiving unneeded excess income through the fixed 
income in the scheme, which would in turn only increase his IHT liability.
The investigator also didnt think that the charges for completing the work were 
excessive, and he was confident that Mr P had considered these and thought them to 
be acceptable.
Security of a guaranteed income had been one of Mr Ps lowest priorities, as 
recorded in the retirement options questionnaire. Mr P also confirmed a high level of 
understanding of risk and investment experience.
In summary, the investigator said that Mr P was a medium to high risk investor who had 
benefited from an increased transfer value due to his single status, and who had 
demonstrated a clear intention to transfer, even before FBWMs advice. He would benefit 
from a post transfer flexible and tax efficient income, which would allow him to retain an IHT 
exempt fund value for the benefit of his chosen beneficiaries in the event of his death. 
As such, the investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr Ps representative disagreed, however, saying the following:
It wished to emphasise that, as per the regulators requirements, a transfer needed to 
clearly be in a clients best interests. As there would be no financial benefit to Mr P in 
terms of the income produced, there needed to very significant benefits of the 
transfer in other areas. But it didnt think that this was the case here.On the basis that Mr P wished to retire in a years time, the scheme benefits would 
have met his income requirement of £15,000.
The lack of an estimate for income from the PPF at age 56 was a serious omission, 
given that this was his desired retirement age according to FBWM. But it in any case 
thought that the figure would have been close to £15,000 and so would also have 
largely met Mr Ps objective.
As Mr P could therefore have met his income objective without taking any risk 
whatsoever, he didnt need to transfer.
Although Mr P had been recorded as being comfortable with the prospect of taking 
risks, there would have been no point in taking a risk for the sake of it. This would 
only have been worthwhile if there was a reasonable chance of improving on the 
guaranteed income he could receive from the scheme.
The critical yields for retirement at ages 56 and 65 were accepted by all parties as 
being unrealistic, but it noted that this had been described as less relevant here for 
other reasons.
It noted the point relating to Mr Ps single status, but said that even without this 
benefit, the critical yields to match Mr Ps individual scheme benefits would have 
bene unachievable, as evidenced by the high hurdle rates  8.4% for age 65 and 
over 50% for age 56 - which stripped out the spouses and dependants benefits.
From an income perspective, therefore, transferring was not a good outcome for Mr 
P.
The representative then addressed the other reasons cited by FBWM for Mr P to 
transfer in turn, saying that they were either incorrect or matters which could in any 
case have been addressed without Mr P needing to transfer.
With regard to the first of these  that the BSPS was in deficit and Mr P may not 
receive his full pension  whilst this was true, FBWM should have explained to Mr P 
that the trustees had already outlined a replacement scheme in May 2016 which 
wouldnt look too dissimilar to the BSPS  and it was believed that this would be 
implemented. But even if it wasnt, the PPF would still have provided a greater 
income than Mr P would receive from a replacement PPP.
In terms of the record of Mr P not needing the income which would be produced by 
the BSPS, it wasnt correct to say that Mr P didnt need that income. He needed a 
retirement income, and the only issue was how that would be produced. It was 
clearly in his best interests to take the guaranteed income from the scheme, when 
the alternative was an unknown, but inevitably lower, income from a PPP with all the 
risk and management expense associate with that.
With regard to the loss of the value of death benefits due to his single status, it was 
possible that his circumstances could change in the future.
But it wasnt in any case in Mr Ps interests to transfer for the sake of the legacy for 
nieces and nephews who werent financially dependent upon him. It wasnt certain 
that they would receive any legacy at all if the pension funds had been exhausted 
and there were other options for providing a legacy if required, including the ISA 
funds or taking out a life assurance policy. But these alternatives werent discussed with Mr P.
As to Mr Ps desire for investment flexibility, this would have meant little if there was 
no realistic prospect of those investments producing the returns required to match 
the guaranteed income already available under the BSPS  as was accepted here.
With regard to the record of Mr P wanting flexibility and tax efficiency of income, any 
such tax advantages would have been minimal, and would have required careful 
management to achieve, thus requiring ongoing advice. But these advantages 
wouldnt have been so great as to justify the risks associated with transferring. But 
there was also no evidence that tax efficiency formed part of FBWMs reasoning, or 
that this was discussed with Mr P.
In terms of Mr P being comfortable with taking risks and having other sources of 
income to fall back on, there was no sense in taking risks for the sake of it, and there 
was no realistic prospect of achieving the investment returns necessary to match the 
BSPS benefits.
It further considered the rationale relating to income being set at the outset to be 
meaningless, and any facility for Mr P to buy an enhanced annuity in the future, if 
required, was inconsistent with the other reasons given by FBWM for transferring.
It wasnt acceptable for FBWM to advise on the transfer without knowing what assets 
would be used for investment of the proceeds  this was also at odds with the 
regulators view.
The TVAS was undertaken on the basis of Mr P investing in a generic provider 
portfolio, but the regulator had said that this was unacceptable. This demonstrated 
that FBWM didnt know its client, as was required under the rules, and it wasnt 
possible to give a suitable recommendation without this.
The investigators comment that Mr P would have a diversified portfolio by way of 
being invested in collectives was problematic. Mr P hadnt ever managed his own 
pension before, as evidenced by FBWMs own comment that he had limited 
knowledge and experience. 
The investigator considered the representatives comments, but said the following in 
response:
Although it had commented that the transferred funds would have been Mr Ps only 
source of guaranteed benefits, this omitted Mr Ps state pension, which would 
provide a significant part of Mr Ps required income.
Had Mr P not transferred, the state pension plus fixed guaranteed income from the 
scheme would have resulted in a significant amount of taxable income, whereas 
drawing income below his personal allowance would have resulted in Mr P paying no 
income tax. If Mr P needed more that the personal allowance, he could have drawn 
down further amounts as required.
This was a key reason why flexibility of income would have been a significant benefit 
to Mr P. And the undrawn pension funds would have continued to enjoy tax efficient 
growth.
The investigator maintained that the transfer had been demonstrated to clearly be in Mr Ps best interests. Further, given Mr Ps high risk investor categorisation, it 
wouldnt have been appropriate to deny him the opportunity for increased growth and 
subsequent personal benefits to him of transferring.
Instead of simply concluding that the transfer was unsuitable because the income 
requirement could be met from the guaranteed scheme benefits, a more holistic 
approach should be taken, factoring in the benefits to Mr P of the transfer.
With particular regard to the issue of lump sum death benefits, Mr P had expressed a 
preference to pass this to his nephews and nieces. This was set out as a clear 
objective in the suitability letter and Mr P hadnt disagreed with its inclusion either at 
the time or afterwards.
The investigator also considered that the manner in which Mr P had managed his 
pension funds, as evidenced by information which the representative had submitted, 
demonstrated that Mr P had taken an equity-heavy approach to investing his funds. 
This would also suggest that Mr P wasnt seeking a safeguarded income  otherwise 
he would have invested more conservatively.
Mr Ps representative maintained its disagreement with the proposed outcome, saying the 
following:
It noted the investigators point about Mr P being a high risk investor and that denying 
him the opportunity for increased growth wouldnt have been in his best interests. But 
the point it wished to emphasise was that there was no realistic prospect of a self 
invested fund being able to match the income produced by the scheme benefits. It 
was almost impossible to achieve, given the critical yields, and FBWM was aware of 
this.
It also accepted that an advisory firm needed to take a holistic approach to its 
recommendations, but it said that the stated reasons to transfer were insufficient, in 
view of the almost inevitable financial loss Mr P would suffer through the transfer. 
And it certainly hadnt been demonstrated to be clearly in Mr Ps best interests.
Although it noted the flexibility of income argument, it said that there was no mention 
in the suitability letter of any potential income tax benefits arising from the transfer  
the recommendation wasnt based on this prospective benefit.
It remained of the view that any potential income tax benefits were in any case 
negligible. On the annual scheme income of £15,000, Mr P would have paid 
approximately £600 pa, and once he was in receipt of the state pension, this would 
have risen to around £2,500 pa. Over the course of his retirement (assuming life 
expectancy to 84), the overall tax savings would be in the region of £50,000. It said 
that this wasnt insignificant, but it was important to bear in mind that Mr P may have 
required advice to achieve the full saving, which would have incurred costs.
Additionally, although Mr P described himself as having a high level of knowledge 
and understanding when it came to investment, he had little understanding relating to 
pensions or drawdown. And although this was acknowledged by FBWM in its 
suitability report, it made no attempt to value those potential tax advantages against 
the obvious disadvantages of losing the guaranteed scheme income.
It contended that any potential tax advantages would have been outweighed by the 
disadvantages of relinquishing the scheme benefits.As to the point about Mr P likely investing in a more conservative manner if hed been 
concerned about the suitability of the transfer, it disagreed, as there would have been 
no point in investing the post-transfer funds cautiously. This would simply make it 
more unlikely that the required returns to match the scheme benefits would be 
achieved.
A riskier investment approach would therefore be required  but this in any case had 
little bearing on the suitability of the transfer. Mr P would be worse off irrespective of 
how he invested his funds or the return he would make.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, the complaint was referred to me for 
review.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 February 2022, saying in summary that I thought the 
complaint should be upheld. Those findings are set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, I have some sympathy with the position of Mr P and his representative in 
this matter, for the reasons Ill set out below.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied, but provides 
useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time FBWM advised Mr P were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like FBWM, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, FBWM 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Ps 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to 
transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme 
with safeguarded benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to         
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and 
its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of FBWMs advice to Mr P in the context of the above 
requirements.
FBWMs rationale for transferring
FBWMs advice pre-dated the outcome of the consultation on the future of the BSPS, and so 
Mr P hadnt yet received information relating to the time to choose exercise which began in 
late 2017. Its FBWMs position that Mr P was sufficiently concerned about the future of the 
BSPS to make him keen to transfer (which I address below), and that he was seeking a very 
much restricted recommendation for the transfer. But Mr P was nevertheless seeking advice 
on his options for meeting his objectives in terms of the potential transfer. Mr P wasnt categorised as an insistent client, and so FBWM could be confident that he would be acting 
upon, or at least taking into account, its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, FBWM undertook its fact finding for Mr P and then set out 
its assessment of his circumstances and objectives. 
As set out above, in its suitability report FBWM summarised Mr Ps objectives as follows:
To choose and manage his pension investment strategy.
To have the flexibility in taking an income form the pension and make changes to this 
as required.
To leave a legacy for his nieces and nephews.
Although not included in the above, its also been asserted that Mr P was considering early 
retirement in the next few years, hence the mention of this at age 56. However, before I 
assess these, I think it would be prudent to assess the transfer from the perspective of any 
purely financial benefit  so in terms of actual likely payments to Mr P.
FBWM obtained a TVAS report for comparison purposes to determine the viability of the 
transfer to meet Mr Ps objectives from a financial perspective. 
The suitability report was issued before the FCAs revised guidance which was released in 
late October 2017, and provided discount rates for levels of growth which were deemed 
achievable for particular time periods until prospective retirement. But before that, similar 
rates were published by this service. Businesses werent required to reference these when 
providing advice on transfers, but they would nevertheless have been a useful indicator of 
the type of investment return deemed feasible at the time.
The discount rate deemed achievable for the 9 years left to the scheme retirement age of 65 
was 3.7% pa. And that for retirement in one years time at age 56 was 2.3%.
The critical yield for retirement at age 65 with the BSPS, at 15.35% pa, or even that required 
to match the PPF benefits, at 9.45% pa, was therefore considerably higher than both the 
discount (or growth) rate deemed achievable over the same period, and the mid-band 
growth rate used by the regulator  5% pa. FBWM itself said that it considered the critical 
yields to be unachievable, given Mr Ps attitude to investment risk.
And I agree. As with both FBWM and the investigator, Im not persuaded that the critical 
yields were in fact achievable, year on year, for the number of years that Mr P had until he 
reached the scheme retirement age, and certainly not for retirement in one years time. And 
as a reminder, these growth rates were required to just match the scheme benefits. 
There needed to be a realistic chance that the benefits of the scheme could be bettered 
through transferring. And, in line with the DB transfer requirements at the time, it needed to 
be clearly demonstrated that the transfer would be in Mr Ps best interests. As such, my view 
is that the transfer couldnt be justified from a purely financial perspective, especially given 
the valuable guarantees which Mr P would be relinquishing. But the feasibility of achieving a 
critical yield alone wouldnt in any case indicate suitability of a transfer, as set out in COBS 
19.1.7B. 
My understanding of FBWMs position is that the basis of the recommendation was the 
benefit to Mr P in terms of other objectives being met - including flexibility of income, along 
with the different format of death benefits with a PPP. It also said in the suitability report that 
the amount of income which would be produced by the scheme wasnt needed on a yearly 
basis  an income of £4,500 pa was deemed sufficient for Mr Ps needs, which it said would require a lower critical yield to achieve.
On that particular point, I would say that, unless there was good reason  or reasons - to do 
so, it wouldnt be suitable to recommend a transfer which would reduce an individuals future 
income, simply because they might be able to afford to live on the lower amount. This would, 
for hopefully obvious reasons, be some way removed from providing a recommendation 
which was clearly in that individuals best interests. And Id also agree with the position of Mr 
Ps representative that there would be little point in taking a financial risk for the sake of it if 
the no-risk option could address the individuals requirements.
But before I assess those other reasons to transfer in greater detail, I think its firstly fair to 
say that FBWM did provide warnings on the guarantees which would be relinquished. 
However, as FBWM will be aware, risk warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable advice 
suitable. And irrespective of the detail contained in a suitability report, this also wouldnt 
make otherwise unsuitable advice suitable. FBWM needed to be satisfied, before providing 
its recommendation, that relinquishing the guarantees and taking the investment risk was a 
suitable course of action for Mr P.
The requirement for flexibility and managing his own investment strategy
As Ive said above, FBWMs reasoning for the recommended transfer was that Mr P required 
flexibility of income due to his particular circumstances and objectives. And so Ive given this 
argument careful consideration.
As a preliminary comment, I do acknowledge that Mr P was likely to have understood the 
principle of needing to take some risk to achieve the required reward, along with the 
discussions around such concepts that he may have had with colleagues. Furthermore, Mr P 
had some experience of investing his ISA holdings. And so I think Mr P may have had a 
reasonable understanding of the concept of risk/reward.
But I dont think that the experience with his ISA funds would have imbued Mr P with 
knowledge or experience of pension investment matters, especially with such a specialised 
area of defined benefit transfers. 
Ive also thought about Mr Ps capacity to take financial risks with his pension funds. Mr P 
hadnt had the opportunity by that time of joining the replacement defined contribution 
scheme (launched in 2017), and so, other than the state pension which wouldnt be payable 
until his late 60s, the defined benefits accrued through the BSPS were likely to have been 
his only source of guaranteed income. Any reduction in the benefits payable from them 
would therefore have had an impact on his financial security in retirement.
Mr P had a sizeable ISA portfolio, and a reasonable amount of savings, and so its likely that 
he would have been able to sustain some losses in his pension funds. But Ive also thought 
about whether he needed to take such risks.
FBWM has added tax efficiency to the stated rationale for transferring, but as with Mr Ps 
representative, Ive seen no mention of this in the suitability report. But even if I were to 
accept that this formed part of the overall flexibility rationale, Ive thought carefully about 
the advantages which might have been gained from taking income flexibly and so managing 
the income tax to be paid, versus the disadvantages of relinquishing the guaranteed income 
from the scheme.
And having done so, Ive reached similar conclusions to those set out by Mr Ps 
representative. Although I dont think that it would have required particularly complicated 
planning on Mr Ps behalf, on the basis of the likely saving over his predicted life expectancy, I dont think this would have justified relinquishing the guaranteed income. Mr Ps 
representative has calculated an approximate £50,000 tax bill over the 28 years or so which 
Mr P might expect to live beyond 56  at which point he could have begun receiving the 
£15,000 pa which would have been sufficient for his income needs, and to which he could 
have added from his ISA funds if necessary.
I think this is likely to have been slightly higher, given the escalating nature of Mr Ps scheme 
income. And as also noted by Mr Ps representative, this isnt an inconsiderable sum, but 
this means, averaged out over those 28 years, income tax of around £1,700 pa would be 
payable. The likely reduction in guaranteed income produced by transferring would have 
comfortably exceeded this. It will be FBWMs position that replacing one source of 
guaranteed income with another wasnt the objective here  rather, it was the facility for Mr P 
to withdraw income flexibly. But the very likely incapacity of the transferred fund to match the 
scheme benefits is representative of the overall financial loss. And that would read across 
into the performance required of a flexi-drawdown fund to do the same. The only way of Mr 
P maintaining his pension funds to a reasonable age would be to withdraw less than he 
could have received as guaranteed income from the scheme. I dont therefore think that the 
kind of annual tax bill mentioned above on an average (scheme and state pension) income 
of £20,610 pa over 28 years could reasonably justify Mr P relinquishing that incomes higher, 
guaranteed nature.
And even if Mr P found himself in a position of receiving more income than he required, 
which might otherwise add to an IHT bill upon his death, then he could have gifted this 
immediately to avoid it being subject to IHT, or used it to buy a life assurance policy written 
into trust. 
On the other hand, if Mr P had primarily used his tax free cash and ISA funds to provide an 
income, and retained the bulk of his pension funds, if he exceeded age 75 (and there was no 
reason to assume that he wouldnt) his beneficiaries would have needed to pay their own 
marginal rate of income tax on any residual uncrystallised pension fund withdrawals upon his 
death.
And so, without even needing to consider whether it was suitable for Mr P to take the 
investment risks associated with the transfer and subsequent reinvestment, I just cant see 
sufficient justification for him needing to do so in the first place. Even a high level of 
investment risk, for example primarily in equities, would be unlikely to produce the returns 
required, year on year, to match the benefit of the scheme income. Quite apart from which, 
combining a guaranteed source of income with a measure of risk/reward investment through 
his ISA portfolio would seem to me to represent just the type of well diversified means of 
retirement provision which would be suitable for someone like Mr P.
Mr Ps concerns about the scheme benefits entering the PPF 
FBWM has said that Mr P was concerned about the prospect of the scheme entering the 
PPF. But Mr Ps concerns should have been addressed and appropriately managed. I 
appreciate that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with 
preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension 
scheme, as appears to have been the case here, but as the professional party, the IFA is 
tasked with rationally addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced 
view of the available options. 
I dont think this happened here. The extent to which Mr Ps concerns were discussed and 
managed appears to have been as follows in the suitability report:It seems increasingly likely that British Steel will not be able to find a new employer 
wishing to take on the Scheme in its current form, and that the Scheme would be required 
to go into the Pension Protection Fund (PPF). Please refer to your letter from the British 
Steel Pension Scheme dated 26th May 2016 for more information.
Had reassurances instead been given about the protections which would still be available, 
even in the worst case scenario of the scheme benefits needing to enter the PPF, I think 
Mr P would have viewed things differently.
Its also fair to say that the detail of any potential successor scheme, as an alternative to the 
PPF, is likely to have been lacking at this point in time. This advice predated the 
announcement in May 2017 relating to the RAA, but even if the BSPS entered the PPF, 
many important guarantees would remain. And my view is that, if Mr P had wanted to retire 
early and it was deemed feasible (and dependent upon the actual age), he would in fact 
have been better off by transferring to the PPF rather than the BSPS 2. A reduction of 10% 
would apply to the benefits payable, but even if Mr P retired early, its possible that those 
benefits would still have met his income needs.
But Mr P also didnt need to make any decision about whether to transfer until more details 
were known about the options which might later be available. My understanding is that there 
was no imminent prospect of the BSPS entering the PPF. And the consultation was geared 
towards the opposite outcome. But even once the options were known, members still had 
the choice of transferring out of the scheme, rather than being forced into the PPF.
So I dont think that these concerns, if appropriately managed, would have been sufficient 
justification to transfer at this time. 
Death benefits
Improving on this position was recorded as being an objective for Mr P. The death benefits 
offered by the transfer would be more beneficial to Mr P and his extended family  
specifically his nephews and nieces. After the transfer, a lump sum would be payable to his 
beneficiaries, rather than in the form of spouses/dependants pensions from the scheme. 
But I have several concerns about this as a reason for transferring Mr Ps benefits. Firstly, he 
had no particular health issues which would mean that death benefits, or any likelihood to 
not benefit from a pension income derived of the scheme for a reasonable amount of time, 
were of concern at that point. 
The second is that accrued pension provision is intended to provide for an individuals 
retirement rather than a desire to leave a legacy for extended family members. The 
recommendation needed to be given in the context of Mr Ps best interests, not those of his 
nephews and nieces. 
And unless the financial needs of the individual concerned are given prominence over the 
extended family, this cannot be said to be acting in that individuals best interests. This 
desire to leave a legacy to his nephews and nieces cannot reasonably have subjugated Mr 
Ps own personal requirement to benefit from his accrued pension benefits. The wish to 
leave a legacy should have been properly weighed against the guaranteed benefits Mr P 
was relinquishing, and FBWM should have advised him that his own financial benefit took 
priority here.
But there was also an absence of detail or discussion relating to the legacy which Mr P could 
in any case have left to his nephews and nieces and would have allowed him to retain his guaranteed benefits in the scheme  a property worth in the region of £170,000, which was 
unencumbered by a mortgage, along with whatever might have remained of his ISA savings. 
Ive also seen no detail as to why a death benefit payment to his nephews and nieces from 
his pension was so important to Mr P - for example, financially straitened circumstances or 
some kind of financial dependence. And there was no record of Mr P needing to provide for 
his nephews and nieces as part of his normal outgoings. I therefore think that it was more 
likely than not an entirely understandable desire to leave some kind of financial legacy, but 
not essential, and certainly not of sufficient importance to justify Mr P compromising the 
security of his own financial future.
So for the reasons given, I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit for Mr Ps nephews 
and nieces by way of transferring his defined benefits constituted sufficient reason to transfer 
and lose otherwise valuable guaranteed benefits for Mr P personally. 
What should FBWM have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Ps decision?
There were understandably concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the advice - and I 
fully acknowledge this. Its undeniable that this was a period of great uncertainty for 
individuals such as Mr P. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced 
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.
Furthermore, as Ive said above, there was no imminent prospect of his scheme benefits 
entering the PPF, which would have ruled out a later transfer. It would have been better for 
him to await further detail as to the prospects for the BSPS, whether this was a transfer into 
the PPF, or as was ultimately the case, the further option of transferring into the BSPS 2.
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr P was a balanced 
appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a robust and candid discussion about 
his own concerns relating to the BSPS. Mr P, amongst many others in a similar position, 
may have been concerned by developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, but 
he was nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options. 
And looking at those options, one of the key recorded objectives - early retirement  was in 
any case achievable within the BSPS 2, and would have remained so even in the worst 
case scenario of entering the PPF. And its likely that, on the basis of early retirement, Mr P 
would have been better advised to enter the PPF. 
For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility of income 
and investment control outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme. Even taking 
account of the tax efficiency of a flexible income, the available evidence simply doesnt 
support the position as to why these attributes would have been sufficiently compelling 
reasons for Mr P to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees. And he would have needed to 
invest in manner which exceeded even his high risk rating to try to achieve the required 
returns to replace the scheme benefits.
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Ps concerns about the existing scheme 
could have been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed 
benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income 
flexibility which I dont think he needed, and a future pension which would be diminished as a 
result of losing the scheme guarantees.
Tax free cash for whatever purpose Mr P saw fit would have been available from his defined 
benefit pension funds. Death benefits were payable from the defined benefit scheme in a 
different format from those available from the PPP. But for the reasons set out above, I dont think this should have been a more important consideration than Mr Ps own retirement 
guarantees which hed be relinquishing through the transfer.
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished. 
And as the critical yield to just match either the PPF or BSPS benefits was considerably 
higher than the discount rate, the regulators mid (and indeed higher) rate growth 
assumptions, I think it was unlikely to be achievable, year on year, to even simply match the 
scheme benefits. This position is supported by FBWMs own comments within the suitability 
report. 
The justification for transferring has been that it was nevertheless suitable in view of Mr Ps 
stated objectives and the concerns about the BSPS. And whilst I accept that the critical yield 
isnt the only factor to consider when weighing the suitability of a transfer, Im unconvinced 
by what FBWM considers to have been the overriding justifications for proceeding with the 
transfer, for the reasons given above. 
FBWMs view is that Mr P was keen on effecting the transfer. And Ive noted the comment 
that hed already made arrangements with a separate product provider to receive the 
transfer proceeds. And I accept that, prior to meeting with FBWM, Mr P may have 
considered that transferring was his best option. But this was FBWMs opportunity to take 
proper account of Mr Ps circumstances and objectives and advise him not to do so, for all 
the reasons set out above.
I certainly acknowledge that it wouldnt be straightforward to effectively undo any 
preconceptions held by Mr P about what he considered to be the benefits of transferring. But 
I think the advantages of Mr P retaining his scheme benefits, if set out in terms similar to 
those above, would more likely than not have persuaded him to do just that. And I think any 
concerns about the pension scheme, especially relating to the prospect of it moving into the 
PPF, would have been assuaged if properly managed.
In terms of the responsibilities of Mr P in deciding whether to still proceed (and as Ive said 
above, I accept that Mr P was given risk warnings and was more likely than not capable of 
understanding them), I dont disagree that properly informed, correctly advised individuals 
would be in a position to take that kind of responsibility and decide for themselves if they 
wanted to transfer their defined benefits. The problem here is that this was a complex matter 
involving many factors with which Mr P, as a layman on pension matters, wouldnt have 
been familiar (even taking account of his experience in ISA investments)  hence him 
seeking the services of a professional party to take those factors into account and provide 
suitable, balanced advice.
For the reasons given above, my view is that Mr P simply wasnt placed in a properly 
informed, or suitably advised, position to be able to take that kind of personal responsibility.
Mr Ps decision to proceed may well have been borne of wider concerns relating to the 
financial viability of the BSPS, but as Ive said above, this was due to the absence of a 
detailed and balanced assessment of the schemes attributes and prospects in the advice 
process.
Taking account of Mr Ps circumstances, including his attitude to risk, his objectives and the 
guarantees which the BSPS offered and would have persisted with either the BSPS 2 or the 
PPF, my view is that FBWM should have advised against the transfer.
And I think that, had this happened, Mr P would have followed that advice and not 
transferred his benefits to the PPP.Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads 
to a conclusion that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr P, nor was it in his 
best interests. The key contributing factors here are: Mr Ps attitude to risk and its 
incompatibility with the type of investment risk which would have been required to match the 
scheme benefits  a failing under COBS 19.1.7; and the lack of a comprehensive and 
balanced portrayal of Mr Ps options and the future benefits available from both the BSPS 
defined benefits and defined contributions  a failure to adhere to COBS 19.1.2 (2) and 
19.1.8.
Furthermore, at least one of the key benefits sought by Mr P was available without needing 
to transfer  early retirement, which would have been available to him through the BSPS (or 
indeed through the PPF). 
It follows that my view is that, taking account of those critical yields, Mr Ps attitude to risk 
with regard to his pension funds and matching that with the likely corresponding investment 
returns, it was unlikely that the benefits available from the BSPS, or a successor scheme, 
could be bettered through the transfer. As the other reasons for transferring were in my view  
insufficiently compelling, when considered against the valuable benefits being relinquished, 
as required by COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 19.1.6, FBWM would - or should - then have drawn, 
and conveyed, the conclusion that transferring wasnt in Mr Ps best interests. 
Putting things right
My aim to is put Mr P, as closely as possible, into the position hed be but for FBWMs 
unsuitable advice. Reinstatement of Mr Ps deferred benefits isnt possible. Therefore, 
FBWM should undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review guidance as 
updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My current view is that, had Mr P not transferred his pension funds to the PPP, he would 
have opted to join the PPF. There would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension 
entitlement within the PPF, whereas the BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the starting entitlement for 
deferred members. 
But the reduction for early retirement under the PPF was lower and the commutation factors 
for tax free cash entitlement were also slightly more favourable under the PPF. And so, on 
the basis of prospective early retirement, both the starting income and the tax free cash 
would likely have been higher with the PPF. 
In terms of death benefits, under the BPSP 2 the spouses pension would be set at 50% of 
Mr Ps pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was 
taken at retirement. But Mr P wasnt married at the time of the advice, and didnt envisage 
this happening in the future, and so I dont think this particular enhancement over the PPF 
benefits would have outweighed those relating to his own early retirement.
And so I currently think its the benefits offered by the PPF which should be used for 
comparison purposes.
An extract from the wording of the communication to members in October 2020 was as 
follows:
When the buy-out happens, all members whose PPF benefits are less than their full 
Scheme benefits (i.e. the amount they would be if the Scheme were not in a PPF assessment period) will see an increase to their benefits. All other members will see no 
change as a result of the buy-out.
This has been followed up by a further announcement in December 2021 that the process of 
the buy-out was now expected to be complete by the end of Summer 2022. This said the 
following:
For most members, PPF level benefits are less than full Scheme benefits. When the buy-
out happens, these members will see an increase to their current level of benefits so they 
will receive more than PPF levels. All other members will see no change to their current level 
of benefits as a result of the buy-out.
Due to the lower early retirement reduction factor which would have applied in the PPF, I 
think (albeit without certainty in advance of knowing the actual terms of the buy-out) that 
entry into the PPF would have produced an overall better outcome for Mr P. As such, it may 
be the case that there would be no deficit in the PPF benefits which could be made up by the 
buy-out process.
As such, if the complaint were to be upheld, I would likely require FBWM to undertake a 
redress calculation on the current known basis, rather than wait for the terms of any future 
buy-out to be confirmed. This is in order to provide a resolution as swiftly as possible for both 
parties, and bring finality to proceedings. 
If the complaint were to be upheld, and Mr P accepted the decision, he would be doing so on 
the basis of my understanding as set out above. Its important that Mr P is aware that, once 
any final decision has been issued, if accepted, it cannot be amended or revisited in the 
future.
As such, the calculation on the basis of choosing to enter the PPF should be carried out 
using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. FBWM may 
wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ps contribution 
history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ps SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss 
should if possible be paid into Mr Ps pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been 
taxed according to Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr P within 90 days of the date 
FBWM receives notification of his acceptance of any final decision.Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of any final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
that 90 day period, that it takes FBWM to pay Mr P.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: In the event that I uphold this complaint, I would require 
FBWM to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
FBWM to pay Mr P any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require FBWM to 
pay Mr P any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I would also 
recommend that FBWM pays Mr P the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr P.
If Mr P were to accept a final decision on the above basis, the money award would be 
binding on FBWM. My recommendation would not be binding on FBWM. Further, its unlikely 
that Mr P could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. In the event that 
the complaint is ultimately upheld, Mr P may want to consider getting independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
FBWMs representative disagreed with my findings, however, saying that Mr P made his own 
decision to transfer independently of any advice given by FBWM, and so the complaint 
should be rejected. But even if this wasnt the case, the transfer was a suitable outcome and 
Mr P was likely to derive greater benefit as a result of the transfer.
It set out further submissions under the following subheadings:
Decision to transfer against advice
Mr P had approached FBWM with a firm intention to transfer as identified by the 
investigator and recorded in the advisers notes.
Although the provisional decision acknowledged that Mr P had established a SIPP to 
receive his scheme benefits, no weight had been attributed to the fact that if FBWM 
had advised against the transfer, Mr P could have achieved his aim elsewhere.
The investigators conclusion had been that Mr P would have transferred, regardless 
of advice from FBWM. It was therefore beyond doubt that the advice wasnt 
causative of the decision to transfer. As a matter of law, no liability could attach to 
FBWM. And if an ombudsmans decision departed from the law, it must set out why it had done so. The decision made no attempt to do so and as a consequence, FBWM 
was being held to an uncertain standard. This was neither fair nor reasonable.
Mr P could not have met his objectives of choosing to manage his pensions 
investment strategy and having flexibility of income by retaining his deferred benefits 
in the scheme. Mr P was therefore aware that the transfer wasnt based upon the 
critical yield, which the report said was unachievable. Again, Mr P had made up his 
mind to transfer, and no advice would have changed this.
Even putting that aside, the transfer was a suitable outcome for Mr P. The relevant 
test for considering the suitability of advice is whether it was within the scope of 
advice which could have been given by a reasonably competent adviser. Any advice 
to transfer was suitable and in Mr Ps best interests, and advice shouldnt be deemed 
to be unsuitable simply because alternative advice could also have been provided  
this was a matter of law, to which regard needed to be given.
Assessment of suitability
According to the relevant obligations here  COBS within the FCAs handbook  a 
firm didnt need to guarantee or ensure, particularly with the benefit of hindsight, that 
a transfer was suitable.
But it was in any case a suitable outcome. What constitutes the best interest of a 
customer is subjective and specific to their needs and circumstances at the time. 
That the starting assumption was that a transfer would be unsuitable didnt mean that 
this would always be the case. Considering what was in a customers best interest 
needed to strike the balance between the financial security of a defined benefits 
scheme and the benefits of the lifestyle choices the customer was seeking to achieve 
through the advice  as well as considering their personal circumstances.
Mr Ps wish to leave a legacy to his nieces and nephews hadnt been given adequate 
consideration  the same importance should be apportioned to this as to leaving a 
legacy to his children. It was concerned that this service wasnt approaching the 
matter from a neutral standpoint, instead assuming that all defined benefit transfers 
will be unsuitable. But a transfer will be in the interests of some consumers and 
refusing to countenance this is not fair or reasonable.
Mr Ps circumstances
Mr P was 55 at the time of advice, with no dependants, and was earning £38,000 pa. 
He owned his own home outright, worth £170,000, had £40,000 in cash savings and 
around £300,000 in a self manged investment ISA.
He intended to retire at 56 and only needed an income of £15,000 pa, based on his 
current expenditure. Income from the BSPS would cover the majority of Mr Ps 
expenditure, but wouldnt have provided him with the flexibility to alter this or to leave 
a legacy to his nieces and nephews.
Had he retained his BSPS pension, the income at age 56 would have been subject to 
a reduction of 18%, which would not have been in his best interests.
At the time of the advice, the BSPS was in deficit and highly unlikely to be able to pay 
full benefits to Mr P. It also didnt look like any new employer was going to take on 
the scheme, which meant that it would enter the PPF. This would have meant a 10% 
reduction in Mr Ps starting benefits. As Mr P wouldnt have been able to achieve his objectives by retaining his scheme benefits, it was difficult to understand how advice 
to do so would have been suitable.
Mr P was recorded as having an attitude to risk of 8 out of 10, where 10 was the 
highest. It was therefore wholly appropriate for Mr P to accept a degree of risk in the 
course of meeting his objectives. This was also aligned with his objective of 
managing his investments. Mr P had accepted that the only way to make money was 
to take risks and it was noted in the suitability report that the scheme simply offered 
an inflation linked income each year which couldnt be altered. It wouldnt therefore 
have been suitable to disregard Mr Ps beliefs and advise against transferring out of 
a scheme which offered minimal risk with no possibility of generating increased 
returns.
Mr P was entitled to a scheme pension of £28,007 pa from age 65, although he didnt 
need the spouses pension. At 56, the scheme income would be £15,403. A range of 
critical yields were produced, the most relevant critical yield was that for a single life 
annuity  at 15.35% pa. To match the PPF benefits, this was 8.97% pa if tax free 
cash was taken. These were deemed to be unachievable, but less so for the income 
of £4,500 pa which was deemed to be sufficient for Mr Ps needs.
The suitability report said that Mr P was willing to sacrifice the fixed, guaranteed 
income in return for the flexibility of taking withdrawals as and when he needed them. 
He didnt want to lock into a fixed income, but he would still have the option to buy an 
annuity if required in the future.
The scheme income would have covered most of Mr Ps annual £15,000 
expenditure, but allowed no flexibility and no legacy for his nieces and nephews. The 
transfer would enable both of these. The comparison tool, which used conservative 
growth projections for the transferred funds were clearly set out for Mr P to draw his 
own conclusions as to suitability.
The suitability report concluded by listing the various positives and negatives of a 
transfer and Mr P transferred in full knowledge of these.
The investigators decision and the provisional decision
On the basis of the investigators findings  which took into account Mr Ps 
circumstances and objectives  it was clear that the advice was suitable, and that Mr 
P would have transferred regardless of FBWMs advice. Simply put, he could have 
achieved his objectives by retaining his scheme benefits.
I had provisionally upheld the complaint on the basis that: Mr Ps attitude to risk was 
incompatible with the type of risk required to match the scheme benefits; FBWM 
failed to provide a comprehensive and balanced portrayal of Mr Ps options and the 
future benefits available from the BSPS defined benefits and defined contribution 
scheme; and that one of Mr Ps key objectives  early retirement  could have been 
achieved through the BSPS or the PPF. 
The representative further addressed these findings as set out below.
Attitude to risk
Mr P had a high risk attitude and was adamant that he wanted to manage his 
pensions investment strategy, as hed done with his ISA. His experience meant that 
he was well placed to understand and undertake the risks of the transfer and what would be needed to generate the desired income.
The concept of defined benefit transfers wasnt difficult to understand when 
comparing the income with taking capital. FBWM set out the advantages and 
disadvantages of transferring, along with clear illustrations showing the level of 
returns to match the scheme and PPF benefits  and to sustain income once hed 
transferred.
The benefits of remaining in the BSPS were clearly set out in the suitability report 
and the provisional decision acknowledged that Mr P had experience in managing his 
own investments.
The provisional decision set out a position that Mr P didnt need to take the 
investment risks associated with the transfer and a legacy for his nieces and 
nephews didnt justify compromising his financial future. But if this was the case, no 
consumers should ever take the risk of a transfer, as in all circumstances BSPS 
members would be in receipt of regular income. Mr P was in an extremely strong 
financial position following the transfer and was on course to fully meet his 
objectives. And so it was unlikely that Mr P has encountered the financial difficulties 
alluded to due to transferring out his BSPS benefits.
Mr Ps options
Had Mr P retained his scheme benefits, he would have been able to meet his 
oncome needs from the (post-PPF reduction) income of around £13,500 pa and 
wouldnt have needed to draw income from other sources. He wouldnt have needed 
the returns generated on his ISAs and which would be taxable upon death. And as 
soon as the state pension began, a reasonable proportion of his income would be 
taxable. There would therefore be no flexibility, increased income tax liability and 
potentially a significant exposure to inheritance tax.
Alternatively, Mr P could transfer out of the BSPS, take income from his ISAs tax 
free, grow his pension in a tax free environment and decrease his taxable income 
when his state pension became payable. This would also reduce the tax liability on 
the legacy left to his nieces and nephews and fully met his needs and objectives. 
Further, the income required from the ISAs would be achievable, given Mr Ps above 
average attitude to risk.
The additional benefit of transferring was that Mr P could choose his level of income 
as and when required, rather than it being fixed through the BSPS. The advantages 
of this kind of flexibility had been set out in FBWMs initial response to this service.
It didnt appear to be the case that any weight had been placed on Mr Ps ability to 
draw a higher income in the early years, compared to the restrictive arrangement in 
the BSPS or PPF. As Mr P was intending to retire within the next year, it wouldnt 
have been appropriate for him to wait until the outcome of the consultation was 
known, when everything was pointing to it falling into the PPF. This would have 
prevented Mr P achieving his objectives without severe penalties.
Whilst it had been said that many important guarantees would remain if Mr P entered 
the PPF, not all of these guarantees were of use to him, and would be unlikely to 
outweigh the hindrance of not being able to transfer once the scheme had entered 
the PPF.
Key objectivesAlthough the provisional decision had said that at least one of the objectives  early 
retirement  was available from the scheme, this didnt take into account the 
objectives as a whole.
These were for Mr P to be able to choose and manage his pensions investment 
strategy, for him to have flexibility in his income withdrawals, to leave a legacy for his 
nieces and nephews, but to restrict advice to the transfer, with no ongoing servicing 
requirement.
It was noted that any other financial needs wouldnt be addressed as a part of the 
limited advice service, and Mr P didnt seek advice from FBWM on early retirement, 
likely due to him having already decided on this course of action. It was therefore 
unfair to cite the key objective of early retirement to justify upholding the complaint, 
whilst ignoring all of the other objectives and the scope of the advice.
Neither the BSPS nor the PPF would have allowed Mr P to manage his own pension 
investments or take income flexibly. The provisional decision said that the perceived 
advantages didnt outweigh the guaranteed benefits of the scheme, but the 
representative questioned how this service would have considered a complaint in the 
circumstances where advice was given contrary to the objectives of the complainant. 
It further said that the importance of the rights and benefits attached to either taking 
income from a defined benefits scheme or taking capital are subjective, depending 
upon the consumers needs, objectives and reasonable perceptions.
Mr Ps needs, objectives and perceptions were fully informed and wholly reasonable, 
and it wasnt justified for this service to determine that the advantages of a transfer 
didnt outweigh the negatives. It was a subjective question, and clearly from Mr Ps 
perspective, they did.
The provisional decision had said that there needed to be a realistic chance of the 
benefits of the scheme being bettered by transferring out, but only the financial 
benefits had been considered, with no value being placed on flexibility which was one 
of Mr Ps key objectives.
Mr P could have lived on a lower level of income as identified by the forecasting, but 
in reality he could have taken a much higher amount earlier on and lowered this sum 
as he became older. This would arguably provide more value to Mr P should he fall ill 
or die at a younger age. There was also no reason to assume that the overall value 
of the transferred amount wouldnt eclipse the benefits which would have been 
available from the BSPS or the PPF.
Allowance for early retirement
Even if FBWM was tasked with advising Mr P on early retirement, transferring would 
still have been a suitable option due to the reduction which would have been applied 
by the BSPS for taking benefits early.
My view on suitability
Its been concluded that, taking account of Mr Ps circumstances, including his 
attitude to risk, his objectives and the guarantees offered by the BSPS and the PPF, 
FBWM should have advised against the transfer  and that Mr P would have 
accepted this advice. But Mr P had a high attitude to risk, was in a strong financial 
position, with a good knowledge of investments and didnt stand to benefit from the 
additional scheme guarantees such as a spouses benefit. All of the stated objectives were consistent with Mr P transferring out of the scheme.
Mr P had already made arrangements to transfer out to the SIPP, so there was no 
basis to conclude that he wouldnt have sought advice elsewhere in order to proceed 
with the transfer.
The representative then said that I had misunderstood the analysis for suitability. 
Referencing COBS 19.1.6, it noted that, when advising on a defined benefit transfer, 
the adviser should begin by assuming that the transfer wont be suitable, and that it 
would only be suitable if they could clearly demonstrate that it is in the clients best 
interests. But this was only guidance, to be read alongside COBS 9.2.1R and 9.2.3R. 
The first of these said that, when making a personal recommendation the business 
must obtain the necessary information regarding the clients knowledge and 
experience in the investment field, financial situation and investment objectives to 
make a recommendation which is suitable for the client. FBWM acted in accordance 
with this rule and made a recommendation which was suitable for Mr P. There was 
no requirement for an adviser to recommend the most suitable option, just one which 
was suitable for Mr P.
The transfer was the only option which would have met Mr Ps needs and objectives. 
He wanted to retire at age 56, have flexibility over his income and leave a legacy for 
his nieces and nephews. He also didnt want his pension to fall into the PPF. This left 
him with only one option, which was to transfer. When considered in this context, his 
decision to transfer was wholly understandable.
The transfer provided valuable benefits which werent available within the BSPS, 
such as the legacy for his nieces and nephews and the ability to vary his income. 
Additionally, the BSPS2 wasnt on the horizon at the time, but entry into the PPF was 
a real possibility, with the 10% starting reduction in income which this would entail. 
Therefore, the only way to maximise the transfer value was to transfer before the 
time to choose process ended.
A lot of weight had been placed on the critical yield figure, but it was unlikely that this 
would have been achievable as Mr P intended to take benefits when he turned 56. 
The more relevant comparison would therefore be the income he would receive if the 
scheme entered the PPF. Comparing an income of around £15,000 pa for 31 years 
(his assumed longevity), this would amount to approximately £465,000. Compared 
with this, using a conservative growth rate (for a high risk investor) of 4% pa, a 
transferred fund of £260,000 would generate around £322,400, and Mr P would have 
the added benefit of the capital sum. This took no account of the compound return 
which would have been achieved had the returns been reinvested (if the income was 
being taken from the ISAs). It seemed clear, therefore, that transferring was likely to 
produce a greater overall value.
In conclusion, the representative said that the transfer wasnt caused by its clients advice 
and no liability should attach as a consequence. If Mr P was so concerned about the loss of 
a secure income, it queried as to why he hadnt made any attempt to use the transferred 
funds to buy one. This would support the suggestion that Mr P would always have 
transferred and have no interest in exchanging capital for income.
But the transfer in any case met Mr Ps objectives, the representative said, and it was clearly 
within the scope of what a reasonably competent adviser could have recommended. It 
expressed concern at the change in outcome, based on the same evidence. And it also 
noted an article which said that 98% of complaints about transfers out of the BSPS had been 
upheld by this service, which it said was a far higher uphold rate for pension transfers in general  at 40%,and also significantly above the regulators failure rate of 47% based on 
the cases it had looked at.
It considered the uphold rate by this service to be tantamount to a strict liability test in 
circumstances where advice simply needed to be suitable, and it was concerned about 
potential bias as a consequence. It requested that this service provide internal documents 
relating to the treatment and assessment of BSPS transfer cases.
Mr Ps representative also submitted further comments as follows:
Mr P was keen to emphasise that he hadnt established a receiving scheme prior to 
obtaining advice. Mr Ps representative provided an acknowledgement email from his 
pension provider dated 12 September 2016, which post-dated FBWMs suitability 
report.
The representative also said that, whilst Mr P had expressed an interest in retiring 
early at the time of the advice, he was now 60 and continued to work part time. He 
hadnt accessed any of his pension benefits.
Mr Ps preference would have been to work part time and gradually reduce his hours, 
but this wasnt possible when the advice was given. But it became possible in 2017 
before the time to choose exercise had concluded. Had Mr P been advised to await 
the outcome of the consultation, as I had said should have happened in the 
provisional decision, he would have then capitalised on this opportunity and not 
retired early.
As such, Mr Ps representative said that it should be assumed that Mr P would have 
opted to transfer into the BSPS2 rather that the PPF.
On the basis of this submission, I revised my proposed basis of redress to assume that Mr P 
would have opted to join the BSPS2, and asked the investigator to let both parties know this.
My rationale was that, as set out in the provisional decision, Id concluded that, 
notwithstanding my view that the advice to transfer was unsuitable, Mr P didnt need to make 
any decision about transferring until the outcome of the consultation was known. Nor did he 
in any case need to transfer to fulfil the objective of early retirement. And on the basis that 
Mr P then chose to reduce his hours when this working pattern became available, rather 
than retiring early, I was confident that this is also what he would have chosen to do, had he 
retained his benefits in the scheme.
As such, given that the lower early retirement deduction in the PPF would no longer have 
been of benefit, I was of the view that it would have been more financially advantageous for 
Mr P to have opted to transfer into the BSPS2 rather than the PPF.
In response, FBWMs representative said the following:
On 26 May 2016, Mr P received a letter (which it attached) within which it stated, it 
seems increasingly likely that it will not be possible to find a new employer wishing to 
take on the Scheme in its current form, and that the Scheme would be required to go 
into the Pension Protection Fund
The letter further said that this would result in significant reductions in future pension 
increases and cuts in pensions of at least 10% for those who hadnt yet reached age 
65 (applicable to Mr P).Likely prompted by the uncertainty around the value of his pension fund and ability to 
retire early, Mr P made arrangements to leave the BSPS and then approached 
FBWM for advice in July 2016 to enable him to transfer.
FBWM needed to advise Mr P on the basis of the information which was available at 
the time, which was that there was no sign of the BSPS being saved from entering 
the PPF. This would then have prevented Mr P from transferring out.
In all of the documents retained by FBWM, it was clear that Mr Ps intention was to 
retire the following year. 
When Mr P approached FBWM, hed already opted out of the BSPS without FBWMs 
advice, which enabled him to obtain the transfer value which would expire in October 
2016. The only reason for opting out would be as a precursor to transferring. Had Mr 
P not intended to retire in the near future, there would have been no reason for him 
to seek the transfer valuation.
When Mr P met with FBWM in July 2016 to discuss retirement planning, he said that 
he intended to retire in the next couple of years.
Mr P didnt challenge the facts as set out in the fact find completed in August 2016  
which recorded that he intended to retire in May 2017. There was nothing to suggest 
that Mr P would be offered part time work at a later date or that he would consider 
this as an option. If Mr P was aware that this was an option, he should have 
disclosed it to FBWM.
In August 2016, Mr P provided FBWM with a breakdown of his annual outgoings and 
set out the financial advice requirements for the transfer quote, confirming his 
intention to proceed with the transfer and early retirement.
It noted my position on Mr P not needing to make any decision until the outcome of 
the time to choose exercise was known. It said that this ran from October to late 
December 2017, but Mr P had transferred out of the scheme over a year before this, 
along with opting out of the scheme and obtaining a transfer value before engaging 
the services of FBWM.
Had Mr P changed his decision, it was possible for him to do so, as FBWM had no 
involvement with executing the transfer of Mr Ps benefits to the pension plan. This 
strongly indicated that Mr P wanted the transfer to proceed both at the time of the 
transfer and after his relationship with FBWM had ended.
The option for Mr P to work part time only arose in 2017, long after FBWM had 
advised Mr P. It was therefore difficult to understand how it could be predicted that 
Mr P would have changed his mind and not retired when the option of part time 
working arose.
It also wasnt for this service to speculate on what Mr P would have done had he not 
transferred and waited for the outcome of the consultation. Many other factors could 
have influenced Mr Ps change in position and no explanation had been provided by 
Mr P himself as to what happened between August 2016 and April 2018 when he 
began working part time.
Under DISP 3.3.4A, an ombudsman may dismiss a complaint if dealing with it would 
impair the effective operation of this service, with examples being cases which would 
be more suitable for the courts or another Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) entity. If there were doubts as to Mr Ps thinking at the time of the advice and which 
might materially differ from what had been recorded by FBWM, it would be more 
appropriate for this complaint to be passed to a court, as circumstances where 
witness evidence is required fall outside of our jurisdiction. 
If this wasnt agreed, the representative asked that it be explained as to why it was 
believed that this service had the correct expertise and jurisdiction to support its 
findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For ease of reference, Ive used the same subheadings as FBWMs representative in 
addressing the points its raised. 
Decision to transfer against advice
With regard firstly to the advisers notes, its worth clarifying that these were prepared in 
response to the complaint, rather than being a contemporaneous record. They do refer to an 
email from August 2016 in which Mr P confirmed the ceding schemes requirements to 
transfer. But this post-dated Mr Ps initial meeting with FBWM in July 2016, and so I dont 
think this is clear evidence of a plan to transfer his scheme benefits pre-dating the 
involvement of FBWM.
Nor do I think that Mr P expressing awareness in a subsequent customer satisfaction form 
that he might have been able to transfer with another firm  but perhaps not within the same 
timeframe  as being evidence that hed been determined to transfer and to do so in a 
particular timeframe. 
But even if another interpretation of this was possible, my view, as set out in the provisional 
decision and explored further below, was that it was FBWMs advisory process which ought 
to have made Mr P aware that transferring was not the suitable course of action, nor in his 
best interests. Unfortunately, the outcome of FBWMs advisory process was the opposite, in 
that it recommended the transfer. For the reasons given in the provisional decision and 
below, my view is that, suitably advised and properly informed by FBWM, Mr P would not 
then have transferred  either through FBWM, or with any other business. 
Turning then to the comment relating to the investigators findings, and that, based on his 
reasonable evaluation of the facts, it was beyond doubt that Mr P would have transferred 
irrespective of the advice, as FBWMs representative will be aware, we have a two tier 
system which allows for a review of the facts of the case. And my finding is different, in that 
the advice was causative of Mr Ps decision to transfer. There has therefore been no 
departure from the law, and so no explanation as to why such a departure has occurred is 
necessary.
I concluded in the provisional decision that Mr P wasnt fully informed. I acknowledge that it 
cant be concluded with absolute certainty that, if properly informed, he wouldnt have acted 
differently. My task was, and remains, to therefore decide, on a fair and reasonable basis, 
taking into account the facts, what is more likely than not to have happened. And my 
conclusion, for the reasons given, is that  fully informed - Mr P would have retained his 
scheme benefits.
With regard to the point about control of his pension funds and the requirement for flexibility, I addressed these points in the provisional decision, and my view remains the same. But to 
clarify, had it been clearly explained to Mr P that he could achieve the objectives of control 
flexibility, but at the very likely cost of a lower overall financial benefit, I think the appeal of 
flexibility and control would have been somewhat, and more likely than not fatally, 
undermined. 
The representative has further said that, putting such considerations aside, the test for 
suitability of advice is whether it was within the scope of advice which could have been given 
by a reasonably competent adviser. And that any advice to transfer would have been in Mr 
Ps best interests. But Im afraid I fundamentally disagree. This wasnt a case of advice to 
transfer simply being a possible suitable alternative to Mr P retaining is scheme benefits  
within a range of suitable options. My view, for the reasons given, is that the only suitable 
option here, and the only one which would have been acting in Mr Ps best interests, was for 
Mr P not to transfer.
Assessment of suitability
Id agree that theres no requirement for a business to guarantee that advice was suitable, 
especially with the benefit of hindsight. But I dont think the benefit of hindsight is needed 
here. A consideration of the transfer proposal on a contemporaneous basis reveals in 
sufficient clarity that FBWM should have advised Mr P to not transfer. 
I also agree that the consideration of whats in the customers best interest should take 
account of the advantages and disadvantages of both retaining the scheme benefits and 
transferring. And I must make it clear that at no point have I said that defined benefits 
transfers wont be suitable for some consumers. As such, there has been no refusal, as 
suggested by FBWMs representative, on my part to countenance the possibility that, in 
some circumstances, it might be suitable. Its simply the case that, for Mr P, it wasnt.
On the particular point of Mr P wishing to leave a legacy for his nieces and nephews, my first 
observation would be that, absent any evidence of financial dependency of the latter on the 
former, there would reasonably be no equivalence between this and wanting to leave a 
legacy for children of his own (notwithstanding that Mr P didnt have any children). I havent 
seen any evidence of financial dependency, and none has been offered in response to the 
provisional decision. My comments on that particular matter, and the prioritisation of Mr Ps 
security in retirement over a seemingly non-essential legacy for his nieces and nephews 
therefore stand.
Mr Ps circumstances
The representative said that Mr P only needed an income of £15,000 pa to meet his current 
expenditure. As noted in the provisional decision, the income deemed sufficient to meet Mr 
Ps needs was actually assessed to be more like £4,500 pa, which FBWM used to point out 
that the critical yield required to achieve this would be substantially lower than the 15.35% 
pa required to match the scheme benefits at age 65, and over 50% pa at age 56. 
But my point about Mr P unnecessarily settling for a lower income which might have met his 
expenditure, rather than an enhanced pension from the BSPS remains the same  as set out 
in the provisional decision. Theres simply no good reason to advocate a course of action 
which would reduce an individuals income, simply because they might be able to afford to 
live on that reduced amount, if there exists a means of receiving a higher, guaranteed 
income. Notwithstanding arguments around control, flexibility (Ive already revisited the issue 
of death benefits above), which Ill address further below, the higher guaranteed benefit is in 
my view the obviously suitable choice. To be clear, not simply an alternative to another 
possibly suitable choice  rather, the suitable choice.FBWMs representative has also said that, due to the 18% early retirement reduction in 
scheme benefits at age 56, this wouldnt have been in his best interests. This is, Im afraid, a 
fallacious argument. To clarify, whilst the scheme benefits may have been reduced to 
account for the longer period of payment to Mr P, transferred pension funds would also have 
had less time to appreciate in value  and as a reminder, they needed to increase by over 
50% at age 56 to match the schemes guaranteed income level - before they began to be 
withdrawn and would also need to sustain those withdrawals over a longer period of time.
It has been further asserted that the BSPS was in deficit and it was likely that the scheme 
benefits would move into the PPF. For all the reasons given in the provisional decision, I 
dont think the latter was more likely than not to have been the outcome  hence the 
consultation to avoid just such an eventuality. 
As to the further point that retaining the scheme benefits wouldnt have enabled Mr P to 
meet his objectives, I can really only reiterate what Ive said in the provisional decision. The 
argument in favour of control and flexibility of income didnt justify the transfer of Mr Ps 
scheme benefits. There were other ways, as outlined in the decision, of managing a 
guaranteed, escalating scheme income and gifting any excess if necessary, and the claimed 
tax advantages didnt stand up to scrutiny. Further, the objective of leaving a legacy to Mr 
Ps nieces and nephews could have been met without needing to transfer  for example by 
leaving them his mortgage-free property, or if for whatever unexplained reason they needed 
more than this, through a life assurance policy.
My view is that this should all have been explained to Mr P, with the suitable outcome being 
that he didnt need to, and shouldnt, transfer. But as it wasnt explained to him in these 
terms, he was, as Ive said above, effectively in an uninformed position.
Regarding the point about Mr Ps attitude to risk, Id again repeat what I said in the 
provisional decision. Theres no point in taking a high risk for the sake of it, especially if the 
income requirement can be achieved through guaranteed means. And for Mr P to have 
increased the financial benefit, he would have needed to take an extremely speculative 
approach to investing  as a repeated reminder, to just match the starting scheme income at 
age 56, the transferred benefits would need to increase by over 50%. There was therefore 
no reasonable prospect for Mr P, even with his recorded risk rating, of achieving the required 
returns which might render the objectives of investment control and flexibility worthwhile in 
terms of justifying the transfer.
I also note the comment that the scheme benefits simply offered an inflation linked income 
each year  I think the purpose of this was to downplay the value of such a guaranteed 
income stream, but I think few individuals who didnt have access to such a guaranteed, 
increasing income for the rest of their lives would see it in such a negative light. And the 
benefit of a guaranteed, escalating income to an individual, such as Mr P, who had no other 
guaranteed income other than a state pension which wouldnt begin for many years would 
be significant. It may not have been possible to alter it, but Id refer to other commentary on 
how Mr P could manage any excess income  which I think would most commonly be 
viewed as a comfortable, perhaps enviable, position to be in.
To sacrifice these guarantees for the sake of flexibility in an income which could never 
reasonably achieve the same value as that offered by the scheme, would not in my view be 
a suitable course of action. As Ive said above, Mr P was effectively swapping a higher 
guaranteed income for the sake of flexibility in withdrawing a lower overall income.
FBWMs representative has noted that, at 56, Mr Ps likely retirement age, he would have 
received a scheme pension of £15,403 pa. But it then said that the most relevant critical 
yields were 15.53% pa to match the scheme benefits, and 8.97% pa to match those from the PPF. But Im afraid that isnt right  those were the critical yields to match scheme benefits at 
the normal scheme retirement age of 65. The required yield to match the income which Mr P 
could take from the scheme at 56 was in excess of 50% pa. And although its also been 
further asserted that Mr P could establish an annuity later on if needed, any of the above 
critical yields  even those to age 65 - tell me that the chances of matching the scheme 
income would be remote.
Ive further noted the comment that Mr P was provided with comparisons of income, which 
would have enabled him to draw his own conclusions on suitability. But Mr P had engaged 
FBWM to assess suitability here. As an individual who would have had no prior experience 
or knowledge of defined benefit transfers, it wasnt up to him to determine suitability. FBWM 
was being paid several thousand pounds to assess this on his behalf and provide both a 
balanced and comprehensive overview of his options, and to recommend a suitable course 
of action. My view, for the reasons given, is that neither of these occurred here.
The representative then said that the position that Mr P didnt need to take the financial risks 
associated with the transfer was nonsensical, adding that no BSPS member should ever 
take the risk of transferring as they would all be in receipt of regular income. It said it was 
wholly legitimate for a consumer to seek greater returns from the fund, by way of both 
income and the capital sum. Security of income wasnt of paramount concern to all investors.
There a couple of issues to address here. Firstly, according to the guidance, the starting 
assumption for any defined benefit transfer is that it will be unsuitable, unless it can clearly 
be demonstrated otherwise. This is largely due to the guaranteed benefits being 
relinquished, which in many instances it would be very difficult to replace. 
And that is precisely the case here. To reiterate, on the basis of the required critical yields, 
there was no reasonable prospect of Mr P being able to derive greater financial returns from 
his transferred funds. And the prospect of the capital sum which Mr P could leave as a 
financial legacy has already been addressed in this, and the provisional, decision. 
There may of course be circumstances in which a transfer is the suitable course of action, 
for example the consumer had a limited life expectancy and the prospect of a spouses or 
dependants pensions was, for whatever reason (single, no dependants) outweighed by the 
advantage of a capital lump sum. Additionally, if the critical yield to exceed the scheme 
benefits was achievable, and the consumer was willing to take the risk for the sake of better 
returns, this might render a transfer suitable  so long as this wasnt outweighed by other 
considerations as to why it wouldnt be suitable. There may also be very specific and 
necessary purposes in mind for a lump sum which couldnt be met by using other assets 
(although it would need to be clearly demonstrated that the consumer understood what they 
were relinquishing).
But none of these conditions were present here  and for the reasons already given, none of 
the objectives recorded by FBWM would reasonably justify the transfer, especially where 
alternatives towards meeting those objectives were available, for example reinvesting/gifting 
surplus income and leaving a different kind of financial legacy to Mr Ps nieces and 
nephews.
The representative has said that Mr P was in a strong financial position after transferring and 
that it was unlikely hed encountered any of the difficulties alluded to as a reason to not 
transfer. The problem with this is that Mr P was in an even stronger financial position before 
transferring his benefits, with no reasons to be concerned by the impact of such issues as 
stock market fluctuations on his pension income, which would  after the transfer - now 
affect both his investment ISAs and his pension funds. Mr P may have been recorded as a 
high risk investor, but reinvestment of the pension funds could only make any sense if there was a reasonable prospect of them bettering the scheme benefits. And this simply wasnt the 
case here. 
Mr P may also have benefitted from un uptick in financial markets  which would serve to 
mitigate any redress due as set out in the provisional decision - but as all parties to this 
complaint will be aware, this is far from guaranteed to be the case in the future. At the time 
of drafting this decision, I note that the increase in the value of the FTSE 100 has been just 
under 9% since September 2016  an average growth rate of under 2% pa. And so some 
distance from the type of return required to even just match the scheme benefits. This is the 
reality of swapping guaranteed benefits for those dependent upon financial markets. And this 
isnt commentary with the benefit of hindsight. These are precisely the kind of low growth 
examples, repeated throughout the sometimes quite volatile history of stock markets, which 
should have been taken into account when advising Mr P to exchange the guaranteed 
scheme benefits for an overall lower, non-guaranteed benefit.
And Mr P may have been recorded as a high risk investor, and so willing to accept market 
fluctuations, but as Ive said above, for even a high risk investor there needs to be the 
realistic prospect of exceeding the financial benefits of the scheme income to make the 
transfer  and any perceived advantage of flexibility  worthwhile. And this wasnt the case 
here, even to match the scheme benefits which would be available at age 65  with a 
required critical yield of over 15% pa. This was around double the upper growth band, which 
might reasonably be consistent with a high risk investor, deemed feasible by the regulator. 
And Mr Ps attitude to risk to achieve the over 50% pa critical yield to match the scheme 
benefits at age 56 would have needed to be highly speculative. 
Therefore, for an individual such as Mr P, the critical yields required to match the scheme 
benefits werent realistically achievable, as acknowledged by FBWM itself.
Mr Ps options
FBWMs representative has set out Mr Ps options, concluding that to retain his benefits in 
the scheme would have afforded no flexibility, increased his income tax liability and created 
a potentially significant exposure to IHT. Ive already addressed the issue of flexibility, and 
why I dont think this justified relinquishing the scheme guarantees, and I set out my view on 
the income tax issue, which I also concluded didnt bear scrutiny as a reason for transferring 
(nor had it formed part of original rationale for transferring). Suffice to say my reasoning 
remains the same. The lower income tax burden of accessing income flexibly is unlikely to 
have offset the overall reduction in Mr Ps financial benefit through transferring.
And as regards IHT, the threshold in 2016 was £325,000, and so Mr P would have exceeded 
this when ISAs, other savings and his property were considered. Taking into account their 
total value, 40% tax would have been levied on the excess of £175,000, meaning £70,000 
being payable to HMRC. But if hed relied on his ISAs for income and reduced these over 
the years, any unused pension funds passed on upon his death after age 75, although 
outside of the estate, would also have been taxed at the beneficiaries marginal rate, which 
was likely to be between 20% and 40%. As at the time of the transfer, a marginal rate of 
20% would have meant around £52,000 payable to HMRC, and a marginal rate of 40% 
would have resulted in £104,000 being payable to HMRC.
All of these amounts would likely have increased by the time Mr P was 75. But for illustration 
purposes, using the position in 2016 demonstrates that the likely tax applied to any lump 
sum legacy for Mr Ps nieces and nephews from unused pension funds would have either 
been £18,000 below an IHT bill which would otherwise have been paid on the estate assets, 
or £34,000 higher. And so I dont think it can reasonably be said that there would be a clear 
IHT benefit in drawing income from the ISAs and leaving transferred pension funds as a death benefit. And certainly not one which would justify relinquishing the scheme 
guarantees.
As the assertion that no weight has been placed on Mr Ps ability to draw a higher income in 
the earlier years, rather than being restricted to a fixed level of income from the scheme, Id 
simply comment that Mr P didnt need an income higher than that which would be offered by 
the scheme  around £15,000 pa with BSPS, or around £13,500 pa from the PPF. Any 
excess requirements could simply have been met by withdrawals from his ISAs or other 
savings. and as Ive said previously, any excess in the later years could have been gifted or 
reinvested, as Mr P saw fit.
And whilst its been said that not all of the guarantees attached to the scheme benefits would 
have been of use to Mr P, certainly the most important one would have been  guaranteed, 
escalating income, rather than access to a fund which would almost certainly have produced 
a lower overall benefit. 
Key objectives
The representative has said that it isnt fair to focus on early retirement as being an objective 
which could be met through retention of the scheme benefits and use this as justification for 
upholding the complaint. It has further asserted that, in doing so, Ive ignored all of the other 
objectives in doing so.
Firstly, addressing the claim that early retirement wasnt in fact an objective, but was rather 
something which Mr P had already decided upon, I think it could reasonably be said that, in 
the absence of any part time working opportunity at the time of the advice, Mr P was seeking 
an assessment of a suitable means of retiring early. And I think this could reasonably be 
described as a key  in fact overriding  objective. Even if hed already decided to do so, this 
remained a key objective. And I think its fair to say that the other objectives recorded in the 
suitability report were subordinate aspects of the key objective. Particular aspects of the 
suitability assessment, including the claimed advantage of flexibility of income, along with 
projections of benefits from age 56, would be entirely consistent with the thinking around 
how best to achieve the key objective of early retirement. 
As an aside, I also note that, further on in the representatives submission, early retirement is 
referred to as an objective.
But even if a different interpretation of the above was possible, Im afraid the assertion that 
Ive ignored the other stated objectives is plainly wrong  a significant part of the provisional 
decision was dedicated to an assessment of Mr Ps recorded objectives and its difficult to 
understand how the conclusion that these have been ignored could reasonably have been 
reached. 
The representative has then queried my conclusion that the disadvantages of the transfer 
outweighed the benefits, enquiring as to how this service would have considered a complaint 
where advice was given contrary to Mr Ps objectives. The answer is quite straightforward  
such a case would have been considered on the basis of the facts of the case, as has 
happened here. My view is that suitable advice here would have been to not transfer, for all 
the reasons given in this and the provisional decision. And had this been the case, but Mr P 
had complained about advice to not transfer, which he heeded, its likely in my view that the 
complaint wouldnt have been upheld  although this would of course be dependent upon 
the substance of that complaint. 
Had he not heeded that advice, FBWM could either have opted to transact the business on 
an insistent client basis  meeting the benchmark and requirements of such a categorisation  or, if it deemed such a transfer to be obviously against Mr Ps best interest, it would have 
had the option to decline to facilitate the transfer.
And as to the argument that it wasnt justified for this service to determine that the 
advantages of the transfer didnt outweigh the disadvantages, I think this is a somewhat 
surprising comment from a representative which is familiar with the function and purpose of 
this service. Its precisely our role to determine, on a fair and reasonable assessment of the 
facts, whether, in our view, the advantages of the transfer outweighed the disadvantages. It 
may be a subjective question, and I acknowledge that Im expressing an opinion on what 
should have happened here. But we are a fair, informal  and crucially impartial  service, 
with no incentive to either uphold or reject complaints such as these.
And the problem with asserting that, from Mr Ps perspective, the advantages outweighed 
the disadvantages is that he wasnt in a fully informed position. If it had been clearly 
explained to him that he could: retire at age 56 with guaranteed escalating scheme benefits 
which would cover his annual expenditure; top up that income from ISAs/savings if required; 
gift (free of IHT) or reinvest any surplus income as he saw fit; have no particularly adverse 
IHT implications from using pension funds instead of ISAs for retirement income; make his 
property and any remaining ISA funds or savings (or life assurance policy if necessary) the 
legacy for his nieces and nephews; and still fully manage and control over half of his liquid 
wealth - his ISAs  as he saw fit, I think he may have viewed things somewhat differently.
And more importantly, if FBWM, armed with the same knowledge, had advised Mr P to retain 
his scheme benefits with the above explanation, I think Mr P would have accepted that 
recommendation.
And this would especially be the case if it was also made clear to him that there was very 
little prospect of him being able to better the overall financial reward represented by the 
scheme benefits by transferring and then managing his own investments  and certainly not 
without taking speculative risks.
The representatives further point is that, whilst I had said that there needed to be a realistic 
chance of the benefits being bettered by transferring, only the financial benefits were 
compared, with no value placed upon flexibility. Flexibility may indeed have a value, but Id 
query the advantage of such flexibility if there is little chance of those benefits being 
improved upon, no matter how flexible the withdrawals were. I think its very unlikely, for 
example, that someone might eschew the opportunity of a guaranteed, escalating income in 
favour of flexibility with an overall lower level of income. 
For example, presenting Mr P with a scenario in which, for the sake of the benefit of 
flexibility, he would need to restrict his withdrawals to just £4,500 pa from the outset to just 
match the overall scheme benefits which would otherwise have paid a starting income of 
£13,500 pa  on a guaranteed, escalating basis  would I think have resulted in a different 
outcome here. 
As to the point about Mr P being able to take a higher amount of income earlier, if he 
decided to withdraw from the pension fund rather than, or alongside, the ISAs, indeed he 
could, but with a likely significant impact on his ability to fund his retirement later on in 
retirement. As a reminder, Mr P was, at the time of the advice, planning to retire in one 
years time  at 56  and so he would have had a prospective further 30 years of retirement 
to sustain, with all of the uncertain fluctuations in financial markets which might occur in that 
period of time.
Had there been a reasonable chance that the transferred benefits might even just match the 
scheme benefits, then there may be an argument for an individual with a risk attitude like Mr Ps to have transferred for the sake of bettering the overall financial outcome. But despite the 
representatives argument that that there was no reason to assume that the transferred 
benefits wouldnt eclipse those from the BSPS or the PPF, this self-evidently wasnt the 
case, as indicated by the high critical yields and FBWMs own acknowledgment  along with 
the representatives later in its response - that they werent achievable.
Overall, my view is that the perceived advantages of flexibility and management have 
been overplayed. And had Mr P been properly aware that such flexibility meant that he could 
simply manage and vary a lower overall pension benefit throughout his retirement  minus 
the guarantees which were present in the BPSPS or the PPF - I think he would quite 
justifiably have formed a different conclusion as to whether to transfer. 
Allowance for early retirement
Ive addressed this point above  its misleading to use the reduction factor applied by a 
scheme for earlier, and longer, payment, without also recognising the effect that taking 
transferred benefits earlier would have on both the ability of the pension funds to grow 
before income withdrawals, and the number of additional years retirement which the 
pension fund would need to then sustain.
My view on suitability
In terms of the representatives claim that Mr Ps circumstances and objectives were 
consistent with a transfer, I think theres little I can add to what Ive already said above. Mr P 
didnt need to transfer to satisfy his objectives  he could have reinvested/gifted any surplus 
income, fulfilled investment management goals through his ISAs, and left a different financial 
legacy to his nephews and nieces. And even though these may not have precisely matched 
the strictly pension-related objectives recorded by FBWM, an explanation as to why a 
different format of financial planning, whilst retaining the scheme guarantees was suitable 
here would, in my view, have persuaded Mr P to retain his scheme benefits.  
Mr P may have already established a SIPP, although the evidence hes provided suggests 
otherwise, but I dont in any case think this means he would have used a different business 
to facilitate the transfer if FBWM had advised against it. My view is that, properly informed 
and suitably advised, Mr P would have appreciated that transferring wasnt in his best 
interests. And closing the SIPP wouldnt have been particularly onerous.
Turning then to the claim that I have misunderstood the analysis for suitability, I must 
disagree. Id firstly comment that, whilst a business should take into account the guidance on 
assuming unsuitability at the outset when considering a defined benefits transfer, theres no 
elevation here of the guidance over the rules. 
And the rules to which the representative refers clearly set out the requirement to make a 
suitable recommendation. For all the reasons given, my view is that the advice given by 
FBWM didnt constitute a suitable recommendation, and the provisional decision referred to 
specific rules which I didnt think had been adhered to. And its not the case that this was 
one of a range of potential suitable options of which not transferring might have been the 
most suitable  there may have been the possibility of this with regard to whether Mr P 
ultimately decided to enter the PPF or the BSPS2 once the time to choose process had 
begun, but my view is that, within the very binary and markedly different outcomes of either 
retaining his scheme benefits or transferring, only the former would have been a suitable 
recommendation.
The representative has said that transferring was the only option for Mr P to meet his needs 
and objectives. And that, when considered in this context, Mr Ps decision to transfer was understandable. And I agree that, in the context of the recommendation and assessment of 
his options as presented by FBWM, Mr Ps decision to transfer was wholly understandable. 
But thats a significant part of the problem. As Ive said previously, my view is that this wasnt 
a balanced and comprehensive assessment of Mr Ps objectives and ways of achieving 
them, albeit in perhaps a slightly different format. And had his options been presented in a 
more balanced way, which would have meant that he could have retained and capitalised on 
the greater financial benefit offered by either the BSPS or the PPF, I think he would have 
acted differently.
And this includes any concerns which Mr P had about entering the PPF. For the reasons set 
out in the provisional decision, if these concerns had been properly managed and 
addressed, I think that Mr P would have been reassured by the guarantees still in place 
within that arrangement.
The representative said that, in addition to Mr P not being able to leave a legacy for his 
nieces and nephews, along with the inability to vary income, both of which Ive addressed 
above, the BSPS2 wasnt on the horizon, but that the PPF was a real possibility. And that 
the only way to maximise the transfer value was to transfer before the time to choose 
process completed. But for the reasons given, I dont think Mr P needed to maximise his 
transfer value. My view is that Mr P should have retained his scheme benefits, which renders 
any maximisation of a transfer value moot. This would only be relevant if a transfer was 
suitable, but timing was key  which isnt the case here. Had Mr P not transferred, hed then 
have had the option to either move into the BSPS2 or the PPF.
I also think that theres a misinterpretation here as to what happens when scheme benefits 
enter the PPF. My understanding is that once this has occurred, it isnt possible to transfer 
out a CETV, and so no reduction would or could be applied to that. The 10% reduction is 
applied to the income which is payable by the PFPF in lieu of the scheme income.
As regards the point made about the critical yield, I agree that this would have more likely 
than not been unachievable. But unfortunately, the alternative calculation which the 
representative has then used to justify the transfer is flawed. It has said that the income of 
around £15,000 from age 56 would have amounted to a total benefit of around £465,000 
over the assumed longevity of 31 years. This would in fact be a slightly lower starting 
amount within the PPF, as has been acknowledged above, but this doesnt account for the 
guaranteed escalation in the pension in payment. The actual benefit to Mr P over 31 years 
would therefore be significantly higher than this  with escalation at, say, 2.5% pa, this would 
be in the region of £650,000.
The amount of the uncrystallised pension funds was then calculated to be around £322,000 
with growth at 4% pa. I agree that compounded growth would increase this if Mr P didnt 
need to draw from his pension funds at all. But if Mr P was relying on the pension income for 
expenditure, it would be reasonable to apply the same compound growth to the ISA funds 
which FBWM has said could have been used instead. Essentially one or the other pots of 
money, or a mixture of both, would have been used to fund Mr Ps retirement income, 
leaving the other to grow. So the compound growth argument is broadly neutral. 
Furthermore, the £650,000 which would be provided by the scheme over 31 years was 
guaranteed to Mr P. A presumed growth rate of 4% pa had no such guarantees attached, 
and as above, Id refer to actual stock market performance since the advice as evidence  if 
needed - of this.
And whilst I dont think that disproportionate weight has been attributed to the critical yields 
the other objectives have also been considered - those required to match the scheme 
benefits were indicative of the likely inability of the transferred funds to match the scheme benefits. Although a critical yield does also factor in spouses/dependants benefits, and Mr P 
may have been single with no dependants at the time of the advice, I dont think it could be 
effectively ruled out that a future dependant or spouse might also benefit from the additional 
death benefits offered by the scheme. 
Put simply, and to repeat what Ive said above, Mr P didnt need to take the investment risk 
associated with the transfer for the sake of an overall likely lower financial benefit. And being 
able to either manage the funds or take them flexibly, when theres little scope for matching 
the scheme benefits, let alone improve on them, couldnt in my view reasonably compensate 
for that overall reduction.
With regard to the concluding comments made by FBWMs representative in its response to 
the provisional decision, Im afraid I disagree that the transfer wasnt caused by FBWMs 
advice. Irrespective of the evidence provided by Mr Ps representative that Mr P hadnt in 
fact already arranged a recipient plan for the transfer funds, my view is that, if suitably 
advised and fully informed, Mr P wouldnt have transferred  for all the reasons given above.
As to the reason why Mr P hasnt bought a guaranteed income, as set out above, Mr P 
hasnt retired. He has instead capitalised on the opportunity to work on a part time basis 
which became available before the time to choose exercise was complete. 
And Im afraid I disagree that the advice was suitable, for all the reasons given above. And 
similarly, I dont therefore consider that it was within a range of potentially suitable outcomes 
here. 
FBWMs representative has further commented on the change in outcome from the 
investigators view. As Ive said above, given the representatives familiarity with our service, 
I dont think I need to labour this point, but this service operates a two tier process, and 
although we have looked at broadly the same evidence, its entirely possible that a review 
might produce a different outcome based upon my interpretation of the facts. Were this not 
possibility, there would seem little point in having the two tier process in the first place.
As to the statistics mentioned by the representative, and its conclusion that this might imply 
a strict liability test being applied for these cases, Id be hopeful that the 20 or so pages of 
provisional decision, in addition to the further commentary above, would reasonably lead to a 
different conclusion  that the individual facts and circumstances of this case have been 
considered to determine, on a fair and reasonable basis, that FBWM gave unsuitable advice 
and so was at fault for any consequential loss suffered by Mr P. 
Further, a high percentage of BSPS transfer complaints being upheld is likely to simply 
reflect the similarly high prevalence of unsuitability within those transfer advice cases. As to 
any concerns about such cases which might be held by the regulator, its not my position to 
comment on those, especially in this individual decision, but it might be useful, as an 
indication as to the nature and degree of those concerns, to refer FBWM and its 
representative to the pending redress scheme which is being established to consider BSPS 
transfer cases.
Ive also noted the request for any internal documents relating to this services assessment 
of BSPS transfer cases. This is being dealt with separately, but I see no reason as to why 
that should reasonably further delay resolution in this case.
Turning then to the comments of FBWMs representative regarding my altered view as to Mr 
P more likely than not opting to join the BSPS2 rather than entering the PPF, I firstly note 
that it has only quoted the second paragraph of a two page letter, which beyond that 
particular paragraph, set out why the scheme considered that entry into the PPF would be a poor outcome and why the proposed consultation was designed to avoid just this eventuality. 
Its worth noting that the extract cited by the representative referred to the scheme in its 
current form. Again, the purpose of the exercise, as set out in that letter, was to restructure 
the scheme so that it could avoid forced entry into the PPF
Therefore, as Ive set out above, and notwithstanding the valuable guarantees which would 
have persisted even in the PPF, the benefit of which should have been properly explained 
and emphasised by FBWM, I dont think that entry into the PPF was more likely than not to 
have been the outcome here. The whole purpose of the exercise was to prevent this, and 
this in itself would, in my view, have justified waiting to see what that outcome was. As Ive 
said above, there was no immediate threat of the scheme entering the PPF.
I dont doubt that Mr P would have had concerns regarding the future of the scheme, and he 
may have already opted out, but again, as Ive previously said, it was FBWMs responsibility 
to appropriately manage and address those concerns. And as also set out above, my view 
remains that this didnt happen here. Had it done so, even on the basis of having opted out, 
Mr P could, and in my view would, have retained valuable deferred scheme benefits.
I further accept that, at the time of the advice, Mr P was intending to retire at age 56. But this 
was on the basis that, at that time, there wasnt the opportunity of working part time. Again, I 
accept that neither Mr P nor FBWM could have known this in 2016. But had FBWM given Mr 
P suitable advice to retain his scheme benefits, which could in any case have taken account 
of the prospect of retiring at 56 for the reasons given above, he would then have become 
aware of the option to work part time in 2017 - and afterwards made a decision on whether 
to transfer to the BSPS2 or the PPF. 
The representative has said that no explanation has been offered by Mr P as to what 
happened between August 2016 and April 2018, at which point he began working part time. 
But the straightforward and, in my view, entirely reasonable explanation is simply the 
implementation of the ability to work part time. I dont think its particularly unusual for 
employees to begin to reduce their working hours as an alternative to full retirement. And the 
reason that this wouldnt previously been mentioned as a possibility, or as being appealing to 
Mr P, is that, prior to it being introduced in 2017, it simply wasnt a possibility.
And Im afraid the representative is mistaken in saying that it isnt for this service to think 
about what decisions Mr P might have made if hed not been advised to transfer and had 
participated in the time to choose exercise. Its the role of this service to consider, on the 
balance of the available evidence, what is more likely than not to have happened if different 
advice had been given  and in this case, had FBWM given suitable advice to Mr P to retain 
his scheme benefits.
And my view, based on the evidence of what Mr P actually did when presented with the 
opportunity to work part time, is that he would have done the same, and then, with imminent 
retirement no longer a prospect, more likely than not have appreciated that the BSPS2 best 
suited his circumstances. The advantage of entering the PPF for the greater benefit offered 
to early retirees would no longer, by that point, have been so relevant.
And finally, to address the suggestion that this case be dismissed on the basis that it would 
be better suited to the courts, and would otherwise seriously impair the effective operation of 
this service, my answer is that there isnt, nor has been, any impediment to this service 
being able to properly consider this case and its merits, nor would there be any reasonable 
prospect of it representing an impediment to our effective operation. As to the particular point 
that there may be doubts about Mr Ps thoughts at the time, which if different to those 
recorded by FBWM, would constitute witness evidence which could only, according to the 
representative, be properly considered by the courts, there are a couple of issues here.Firstly, as Ive said above, I accept that at the time of the advice, Mr P was intending to retire 
at age 56, and so theres no discrepancy between what he was proposing at that time and 
what was recorded by FBWM. But Id refer to what Ive said above about the likely course of 
events, had suitable advice been given to Mr P to retain his scheme benefits. 
And then secondly, Im not entirely certain as to what is meant by the witness evidence 
which the representative asserts is applicable here, but certainly evidence, both verbal and 
written - and submitted by both parties - is precisely what this service considers when 
making determinations on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
This service doesnt cross examine the parties involved, if thats whats being referred to. 
But theres been no need to in this case. In my view, theres sufficient available evidence for 
me to have been able to reach a fair and reasonable conclusion on the facts of the case.
And whilst I suspect that there is confusion here between our ability to dismiss a case as 
being more suited to the courts and whether it falls within our jurisdiction, theres nothing 
about this case in terms of being able to properly assess doubts in Mr Ps thinking about 
early retirement at the time of the advice  which as Ive explained above wasnt the case  
which would mean that we should either dismiss it, or that we dont have jurisdiction to 
consider it. 
As to the point relating to whether this service has the necessary expertise to consider a 
case such as this, ombudsmen are appointed to the panel by our board on the basis that 
theyre able to demonstrate sufficient ability to deal with the cases put before them. For 
greater clarity on this, Id refer the representative to the Who we are section of our website.
Summary  
For all the reasons given in the provisional decision, along with my additional comments 
above, I remain of the view that the advice given by FBWM to Mr P to transfer his BSPS 
benefits wasnt suitable. Furthermore, and again for the reasons set out above, I maintain 
the view that, but for the unsuitable advice of FBWM to transfer his scheme benefits, and if 
properly informed, Mr P wouldnt have transferred. And he would then, more likely than not, 
have opted to join the BSPS2.
Putting things right
As I said the provisional decision, my aim to is put Mr P, as closely as possible, into the 
position hed be but for the unsuitable advice of FB Wealth Management Ltd, trading as 
Forrester Boyd Wealth Management. Reinstatement of Mr Ps deferred benefits isnt 
possible. Therefore, FB Wealth Management Ltd, trading as Forrester Boyd Wealth 
Management, should undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
As set out above, my view has altered, in that, had Mr P not transferred his pension funds, 
he would have opted to join the BSPS 2. There would be a 10% reduction in the starting 
pension entitlement within the PPF, whereas the BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the starting 
entitlement for deferred members. 
The reduction for early retirement under the PPF was lower and the commutation factors for 
tax free cash entitlement were also slightly more favourable under the PPF. And so, on the 
basis of prospective early retirement, both the starting income and the tax free cash would 
likely have been higher with the PPF. But for the reasons set out above, I think its likely that, properly advised, Mr P would have 
retained his scheme benefits, and then when part time working became available, 
capitalised on this  as he ultimately did. His scheme benefits could then have been deferred 
until normal scheme retirement age.
In terms of death benefits, under the BPSP 2 the spouses pension would be set at 50% of 
his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken 
at retirement. Mr P wasnt married at the time, but as Ive said above, I dont think this could, 
or should, have been ruled out as a possibility in the future.
And so its the benefits offered by the BSPS 2 which should be used for comparison 
purposes.
As such, the calculation on the basis of choosing to enter the BSPS 2 should be carried out 
using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation. FB Wealth 
Management Ltd, trading as Forrester Boyd Wealth Management, may wish to contact the 
Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ps contribution history to the State 
Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ps SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss 
should if possible be paid into Mr Ps pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been 
taxed according to Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr P within 90 days of the date 
FB Wealth Management Ltd, trading as Forrester Boyd Wealth Management, receives 
notification of his acceptance of any final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of any final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
that 90 day period, that it takes FB Wealth Management Ltd, trading as Forrester Boyd 
Wealth Management, to pay Mr P.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.Determination and money award: I require FB Wealth Management Ltd, trading as 
Forrester Boyd Wealth Management, to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the 
steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require FB 
Wealth Management Ltd, trading as Forrester Boyd Wealth Management, to pay Mr P any 
interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require FB Wealth 
Management Ltd, trading as Forrester Boyd Wealth Management, to pay Mr P any interest 
as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
FB Wealth Management Ltd, trading as Forrester Boyd Wealth Management, pays Mr P the 
balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance 
to be paid to Mr P.
If Mr P accepts my decision, the money award would be binding on FB Wealth Management 
Ltd, trading as Forrester Boyd Wealth Management. My recommendation is not binding on 
FB Wealth Management Ltd, trading as Forrester Boyd Wealth Management. 
Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. 
Mr P may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. FB Wealth Management Ltd, trading as 
Forrester Boyd Wealth Management, should undertake the above calculation and, if it 
demonstrates a loss, compensate Mr P accordingly.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman