DRN-2804393
The complaint
This is a complaint that Coventry Building Society mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to Mr and Mrs G.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy, taken out with a mortgage in 1997.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs G say they werent given enough information to make an informed choice about 
taking PPI, and that it wasnt suitable for their needs. They also say they were not made 
aware the PPI was optional. Ive looked into these points, as well as generally looking at the 
possible ways the PPI might have been mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs G are saying the PPI wasnt presented as optional. However, I would need 
reasonable evidence to show that Coventry probably did do something wrong in this way. 
And I cant say that there is that kind of evidence. It wouldnt be fair to make Coventry prove 
it didnt do something like this wrong, especially as it was so many years ago. 
Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago. 
This means it can be difficult to know whether its fair to rely fully on everything Mr and 
Mrs G now remember. And Coventry has sent us samples of documents used at the time, 
and these do set out the PPI as a choice. (The sale of the PPI took place about 24 years ago 
and, not surprisingly, none of the original documents from Mr and Mrs Gs account in 1997 
are now available.)
So, on balance, I think its more likely than not Coventry made Mr and Mrs G aware that the 
PPI was optional, but that they still chose to take it.
I dont think Coventry recommended the PPI, in the sense that it told Mr and Mrs G it had 
assessed their circumstances, and that the PPI was particularly suited to their needs. Ive 
not seen any evidence of this and, from the sample documents Ive seen, it looks like the 
PPI wasnt individually recommended  instead it was just routinely offered to customers. So 
this means Coventry didnt have to check if the PPI fitted Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances. It 
would instead have been for Mr and Mrs G to decide whether PPI was suitable.  
Even if Coventry had made a recommendation, however, I think it would probably have been 
an appropriate one in Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable to 
pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. However, the PPI would have paid 
benefits at the same time as Mr G (the person covered by the PPI) received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer than his full sick pay would have lasted. It would have 
paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And so it would have put off 
the time when Mr and Mrs G would need to fall back on the savings they had. This all would 
have put Mr and Mrs G in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. 
I think its likely Coventry explained the costs of the PPI  Mr and Mrs G have said that the 
costs were set out on a piece of paper by Coventry. Its hard, however, to know how well 
Coventry explained the other aspects of the policy. But, even if it could be shown Coventry 
didnt give all the relevant information to Mr and Mrs G, this doesnt by itself mean the PPI 
was mis-sold. I would instead need to decide that Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have taken PPI, if 
theyd fully understood all the terms of the PPI policy. 
But I cant say this is likely to have been the case. Its true that PPI was of questionable 
value in many situations, but for mortgages many people did find it gave them peace of mind 
in case they became sick or unemployed long term, and so would face losing their home. 
Although I cant be sure, it seems likely Mr and Mrs G would still have thought the PPI 
potentially useful and reassuring in this way. 
Mr G has told us about a medical condition he had, and I agree its unlikely hed have been 
covered if hed needed to claim PPI sickness benefit as a result of that condition. But, from 
what hes told us, I dont think hed have worried too much that his medical condition would 
lead to such a situation. Hes said he managed the condition well through medication and 
lifestyle changes, and that he didnt take regular time off work as a result. He says the 
insurance protection wasnt necessary for this medical condition. 
And hed still have been covered for other medical conditions and for unemployment. So I 
think its unlikely full information, about how the policy terms might affect claims for his 
existing medical condition, would have put Mr and Mrs G off buying the PPI. 
Overall, I dont have good evidence that the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman