DRN-3600313
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Grattan Plc irresponsibly gave her three catalogue shopping accounts 
she couldnt afford. 
What happened
Mrs G was given three separate catalogue shopping accounts by Grattan between 2015 and 
2020. These were running account credit agreements with a fixed credit limit. The credit limit 
was increased on each account at least once.
Account one was opened in September 2015 with a credit limit of £100. The limit was 
increased twice until it reached £400 in June 2020. Account two was opened in February 
2016 with an initial limit of £100. The limit was increased three times until it reached £400 in 
July 2016. The limit was reduced to £350 in January 2019. Account three was opened in 
April 2020 with an initial limit of £100. The limit was increased once to £200 in June 2020. 
Mrs G complained to Grattan in March 2022 to say it should never have given her the 
accounts or the subsequent credit limit increases because they were unaffordable to her. 
Grattan said that it had carried out adequate affordability checks before lending and these 
checks didnt show any concern about her ability to repay the credit. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She didnt think Grattan 
completed proportionate affordability checks from the time Mrs Gs overall limit with Grattan 
had reached £300. However, as Mrs G hadnt provided us with enough information about her 
financial circumstances, our adjudicator wasnt satisfied Grattan had acted unfairly in 
granting Mrs G with a total credit limit of up to £600 across accounts one and two. 
At the time account three was opened our adjudicator said that Grattan had enough 
information available to it to indicate further credit was unlikely to be affordable and 
sustainable for her. She said that Grattan shouldnt have granted further credit from this 
point and it should therefore refund any interest and charges it had applied to balances 
above £200 on account one and all interest and charges on account three. 
Mrs G accepted that outcome, but Grattan didnt. In summary, it said that Mrs G declared 
her income to be £3,250 per month at the time of the application for the third account. The 
income was verified using information from a credit reference agency. It acknowledged 
Mrs G had around £6,000 in other credit debts at the time and some recent defaults, but it 
said the credit check showed her financial situation was improving each month. Therefore, 
Grattan didnt consider there to be any concerns with affordability. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to approving credit to Mrs G, Grattan were required to carry out proportionate 
affordability checks to ensure the borrowing wasnt going to cause her financial difficulty. 
What is proportionate will vary depending on the circumstances, such as (but not limited to): 
the amount of credit, the size of the repayments and the consumers circumstances. What 
this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach and in the case of a running 
account credit facility such as the ones Grattan provided, it means that its likely more 
thorough checks will be required later in the lending relationship as more credit is granted. 
Account one was opened with a limit of £100. Grattan completed a credit check to 
understand how Mrs G had managed her previous and existing credit commitments. While 
this showed some historic payment difficulties and a few recent late payments, I dont think 
there was anything to indicate Mrs G couldnt sustainably afford this level of credit. The limit 
on account one was raised to £200 the following month and for the same reasons, Ive seen 
nothing to persuade me that was an unfair lending decision. 
When account two was opened with a limit of £100, Mrs G had a total limit of £300 across 
both accounts. I think by this stage it would have been proportionate for Grattan to have 
completed more thorough checks, such as getting a better understanding of Mrs Gs income 
and essential expenditure. I say this because Mrs G had already missed a few payments on 
account one and had recent missed payments on other external credit. I think this ought to 
have indicated that she may have been struggling financially. 
However, Mrs G hasnt provided us with sufficient information about her financial 
circumstances at the time. Without this, I cant reasonably say more thorough checks would 
likely have shown Grattan that further credit was unaffordable to her. For that reason, I dont 
think it acted unfairly in opening account two. 
Over the next five months the limit on account two was increased to £400. I dont think 
Grattan completed proportionate affordability checks for each of those increases either and 
for broadly the same reasons as when it opened account two. But because Mrs G hasnt 
given us sufficient detail about her financial circumstances, I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that had Grattan completed more thorough checks, it ought to have seen she 
couldnt afford the repayments. So, I dont consider it acted unfairly in opening account two 
or increasing the limit to £400. 
The credit limit on account two was reduced to £350 in January 2019. Its not clear exactly 
why Grattan did this, but it seems to have been in response to Mrs Gs poor management of 
the account. In summary, she had repeatedly paid late over a significant period of time and 
had a recent default on another external credit facility. 
Account three was opened in April 2020 with a limit of £100, giving Mrs G a total limit of 
£650 across her three accounts with Grattan. Like the adjudicator, I think by this point 
Grattan had sufficient information available to it to demonstrate that Mrs G was unlikely to be 
able to afford further increases in her credit in a sustainable way. It therefore shouldnt have 
opened account three or given her any further increases on her other two accounts (account 
one had a further limit increase in June 2020 from £200 to £400). 
I say this because in the year prior to opening account three, Mrs G had incurred late 
payment or overlimit fees in nine out of twelve months on account one. Mrs G had also 
demonstrated an inability to manage credit elsewhere due to her defaulting on several other 
credit commitments in the previous 18 months. While Grattan has said the last of those was 
14 months prior, it could see that she was still regularly in arrears on other external accounts 
right up to the opening of account three, including one of their own accounts. 
Over the course of its lending relationship with Mrs G since 2015, it could see that she had regularly and consistently struggled to maintain her credit commitments. The way she had 
managed her Grattan accounts, in particular account one ought to have also highlighted how 
she was unable to sustainably meet the contractual payments when they fell due. 
I note Grattan says that it verified that Mrs G had a relatively large monthly income, but the 
size of income in isolation does not in and of itself indicate affordability. Clearly, Mrs G was 
struggling financially irrespective of the size of her income and it was therefore irresponsible 
to give her access to more credit that she hadnt adequately demonstrated she could afford 
to pay back sustainably. Grattan therefore acted unfairly by giving her further credit by way 
of opening account three and increasing the limit on account one. To put things right it 
should therefore refund any interest and charges Mrs G has incurred as a result of the credit 
that was unfairly given to her.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Grattan Plc to:
It should rework account three to remove all interest and charges incurred on this 
account since it opened. It should rework account one to remove all interest and 
charges that have been applied to any balances above £200 since June 2020 (the 
date of the unfair limit increase).
If the rework on either account results in a credit balance, that credit balance should 
be refunded to Mrs G along with 8% simple interest per year from the date the 
account would have first gone into a credit balance to the date of settlement. 
If the rework on either account results in there still being an outstanding balance, 
Grattan should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mrs G for the outstanding 
amount. 
Once Mrs G has cleared the balance on account three, Grattan should close that 
account and remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Gs credit file in 
relation to it. Once Mrs Gs balance on account one falls below £200 Grattan should 
remove any adverse information from Mrs Gs credit file in relation to that account 
from June 2020.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman