DRN-1134873
 
Complaint
Mr C complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr C was sold PPI alongside a credit card in 2004.
The policy cost 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. It wouldve paid 10% of 
the monthly outstanding balance for up to 12 months if Mr C was off work sick or lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld.
Mr C didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Based on Mr Cs age and circumstances at the time of the sale, Im satisfied he was eligible 
under the policy.
Capital One had to make it clear to Mr C that the PPI was optional and needed his consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Mr C says he doesnt recall being provided with 
documentation which stated that PPI would be applied to his account. He says due to the 
industry he worked in he knew what PPI was and if it was presented as an optional product 
he would have refused it. So Mr C doesnt think PPI was presented as optional and believes 
it was automatically applied to his account.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. So Ive thought carefully about what Mr 
C and Capital One have told us and considered the other information/evidence I have been 
provided with in order to help me decide what is more likely to have happened during the 
sale. 
The PPI was sold during a telephone call when Mr C called Capital One to activate his card. 
Although Capital One doesnt have a call recording of the sale, it has previously provided us 
with a copy of the call scripts from shortly after the sale which show that the optional nature 
of the policy would have been made clear and that the consumers consent would have been 
obtained before PPI was added to the account. I think the process would have been similar at the time of this sale and I havent seen sufficient evidence to suggest that the 
representative didnt present the policy in the way that they would have been instructed to 
do.
So, while I appreciate what Mr C has told us, based on the evidence available to me, I think 
its more likely that Mr C would have been aware he had been sold PPI. I think PPI was 
presented as optional and that it was only applied to his account because he chose to take it 
out. Of course I understand Mr C may now no longer recall this given the length of time since 
the sale.
I dont think Capital One advised Mr C to take the policy out. This means they didnt have to 
take steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr C. So for example, they didnt need to 
take into account Mr Cs existing repayment provisions, such as what he has told us about 
his employee benefits and savings.
But they still had to give Mr C clear information  in particular about the costs/benefits and 
main exclusions/restrictions in the policy - so that he could make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take the policy out.
I dont think Capital One gave Mr C all of the information as they shouldve about the 
costs/benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy. But this in itself doesnt mean 
the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better information wouldve 
put Mr C off taking the policy. I dont think it wouldve. I say this because:
 
The PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Cs employee sick pay and savings. It 
would have paid out for a longer period of time than Mr Cs sick pay and it would also 
have paid out for up to 12 months if Mr C lost his job.
 
Mr C didnt appear to have been affected by the main exclusions or restrictive terms 
in the policy which wouldve made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim. 
For example, terms relating to preexisting medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements.
 
Mr C couldve cancelled the PPI policy at any time without losing out financially if he 
no longer needed or wanted it.
 
I havent seen any evidence which suggests the PPI wasnt affordable for Mr C.
 
So taking everything into consideration, I dont think Capital One mis-sold Mr C this PPI 
policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
Navneet SherOmbudsman