DRN-3857410
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc declined their request to port 
(transfer) their mortgage interest rate product onto another mortgage on a different property. 
To settle the complaint, they would like Barclays to reimburse the early repayment charge 
(ERC) they incurred when they repaid the mortgage to Barclays.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a mortgage with Barclays originally taken out in 2002 on which there was 
£528,000 outstanding. The mortgage was on a fixed rate that applied until 31 October 2022. 
If the mortgage was repaid within that period  in whole or in part  an ERC would apply. 
In late 2020 Mr and Mrs S wanted to move house and discussed porting the mortgage 
interest rate product onto a mortgage on their new property. The mortgage offer said that 
Mr and Mrs S could do this, subject to meeting Barclays lending criteria.
Mr and Mrs S say that Barclays unfairly declined the application, saying they didnt meet the 
banks affordability criteria. They say that Barclays withdrew the mortgage offer, leaving 
them to apply for a mortgage with another lender, and incurring an ERC of more than 
£15,000. 
However, Barclays says that Mr and Mrs S didnt put in a formal application, because, at the 
enquiry stage, Mr S refused to provide the information the bank requested about his financial 
position.
Mr and Mrs S made a complaint to Barclays, which wasnt upheld, so they contacted our 
service. An investigator noted that Barclays hadnt provided its file of papers, nor any 
information to support its position, and upheld the complaint, asking Barclays to refund the 
ERC, as well as broker fees incurred in arranging the new mortgage, and to pay 
compensation of £300.
Mr and Mrs S accepted the investigators findings, but Barclays didnt. In response, the bank 
said that no formal application had been made. Barclays also said that it had come to light 
that Mr and Mrs S had separated but still wanted the joint mortgage, with only one of them 
occupying the property, which was against policy.
Provisional decision of 10 October 2022 and responses
I issued a provisional decision in which I asked both parties to provide some further 
information. Mr and Mrs S provided us with a detailed timeline and confirmed the original 
basis for their complaint  which is that theyd never been told that the loan-to-value ratio 
(LTV)) would be an issue on a porting application; if theyd known this, they would have 
adjusted their borrowing to match the LTV on their original mortgage.
Barclays provided some further information, but also said it was interested in trying to 
resolve the complaint. Barclays was given an extension of time to provide information and to 
let me know precisely how it wanted to resolve matters on a more informal basis. 
However, the bank reiterated that no formal application was made, nor was there any 
evidence of an appointment with a mortgage adviser that Mr S said had been booked for 
7 January 2021. Barclays wanted Mr S to prove that this appointment had taken place.
Barclays also said that the issues were not around LTV, it was around the fact that 
Barclays offered to help, but when income and expenditure was discussed, the customer 
was not interested. Barclays reiterated its previous points about Mr and Mrs Ss personal 
lives.
The investigator looked at the complaint again. He found that, given the call recordings, he 
was satisfied Mr S was told LTV wouldnt have an impact on whether or not a port would be 
approved, which was incorrect. The investigator thought that if this had been correctly 
explained, it was more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S would have been able to go ahead 
with a like-for-like port of the mortgage without issue.
The investigator explained that, at the point where Mr and Mrs S were moving, they were not 
separated, and so this didnt impact on Barclays obligation to provide them with a clear 
explanation of the impact of the LTV on a porting decision. As a result, the investigator was 
still of the opinion that the ERC should be refunded, with 8% simple interest, as well as any 
fees incurred in setting up the new mortgage. The investigator also thought Barclays should 
pay £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Barclays wouldnt agree to this and so I will now issue a final decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the complaint again  including the responses to the provisional decision 
and the investigators further comments arising from this. Its disappointing that Barclays has 
provided only a single contact note from 18 December 2020, rather than its full contact 
notes. We have only two call recordings, one of which consists almost entirely of Mrs S 
being put on hold until, after ten minutes of listening to Barclays hold music, she 
(understandably) terminated the call. The other call is Mr Ss initial discussion with Barclays 
where he asked how porting worked.
 
I am satisfied that Mr S was told by Barclays during that call that he could keep his 
borrowing at the same amount (Barclays words) as the existing mortgage, notwithstanding 
that the new property would be cheaper than the property Mr and Mrs S were selling. There 
was no mention of the impact of the LTV on porting, despite Mr S explaining several times 
that the new property was significantly cheaper than the existing one.
Barclays said that if Mr and Mrs S were buying a property at £500,000, then they wouldnt be 
able to port the full £528,000, because the LTV couldnt be more than 100%, but clarified 
that if they wanted to buy a more expensive property, then they could apply for additional 
borrowing on top of the £528,000 and it would only be on that additional borrowing that LTV 
would be a factor.Mr and Mrs S have provided a very clear timeline of their contact with Barclays, including 
details of a meeting that took place on 7 January 2021 (after Barclays failed to attend a 
meeting on 24 December 2020). Mr and Mrs S say it was agreed that the £700,000 
purchase would be funded by porting £500,000 from the existing mortgage and a cash 
deposit of £200,000. 
The existing property was to be sold for £825,000, leaving sufficient for the deposit and extra 
funds for stamp duty. Mr and Mrs S say that Barclays confirmed that the £528,000 could be 
reduced to £500,000 without incurring any penalty. 
Mr and Mrs S say that they provided Barclays with details of their income, and were asked if 
the following years accounts would show a doubling of income from the £200,000+ per 
annum Mr and Mrs S had provided evidence of. Mr and Mrs S confirmed that their accounts 
for 2020-2021 would not show a doubling of income during Covid. 
It is unclear why, when Mr and Mrs S only wanted to borrow £500,000, Barclays wanted 
evidence of income of £400,000. This doesnt seem to be consistent with standard income 
multipliers (where lenders will usually accept four x or five x income), or with Barclays 
income criteria for interest-only mortgages.
Barclays has no details of that January meeting and suggest that Mr and Mrs S are required 
to prove this meeting happened. But, given the paucity of the evidence provided by 
Barclays, I find Mr and Mrs Ss detailed timeline and record of the discussions that took 
place to be the more accurate and persuasive account of what happened. 
Barclays said that the application didnt go ahead due to Mr and Mrs S failing to provide 
evidence of income. Im not persuaded that this is, in fact, correct. But even if it is (which I 
doubt) I dont think Barclays has correctly applied the rules that it was required to do here.
There are regulations in place that have flowed from the FCAs Mortgage Market Review 
(MMR) which took place after the financial crash in 2008. This has led to a series of major 
changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are regulated. MMR 
regulations have brought about requirements for stricter lending assessments, aim at 
protecting consumers and encouraging mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they had passed tests under the old rules but 
wouldnt under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. The rules are 
contained in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a borrower 
wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing (other 
than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage that is material to 
affordability
There are also transitional arrangements which say that a lender need not carry out an 
affordability assessment if: 
the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is applying to 
vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;  
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing except for essential repairs to 
the property, or to add product fees to the balance; theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; and  
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests. 
So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage takes 
place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the lender decides 
to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a reason to decline an 
application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the customers best interests. 
But the lender can take the assessment into account as part of its consideration of best 
interests.
Mr and Mrs S werent looking to borrow more, they were downsizing and reducing their 
borrowing. Given this, there was no change to the mortgage material to affordability and so 
no need for Barclays to carry out an affordability assessment. The only change would be in 
relation to the LTV, and, as Ive already found, Mr S was told this would only be a problem if 
they wanted to buy a property that cost less than the amount outstanding on the mortgage, 
or if they wanted to borrow more money (which they did not).
Im satisfied from what Mr and Mrs S have told us that if Barclays had explained that the LTV 
for the new mortgage needed to be the same as (or less than) the existing mortgage they 
would have been in a position to increase their deposit so that the port would be on a like-
for-like basis. I dont think it would have been a problem for them to have increased their 
deposit on the new property in order to keep within the same LTV as their original mortgage, 
because they would still have had a surplus £100,000 from the proceeds of sale.
I think Barclays failure properly to apply the transitional provisions (or provide us with any 
evidence that it in fact gave any consideration to these) resulted in Mr and Mrs S being left 
with no alternative but to switch their mortgage to another lender. I think that if Barclays had 
applied the transitional provisions, and explained the position in relation to the LTV, 
Mr and Mrs S would have avoided incurring the ERC.
I dont think the questions Barclays raised about Mr and Mrs Ss personal relationship are of 
any relevance. Mr and Mrs S have explained that there was no issue in this respect and I 
accept their testimony about this.
Putting things right
To settle the complaint, I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to do the following:
refund the ERC paid by Mr and Mrs S on redemption of their Barclays mortgage; (A)
reimburse any documented costs incurred by Mr and Mrs S in taking out their new 
mortgage, such as broker or application fees; (B)
pay interest at 8% simple per annum on A from the date of redemption to the date of 
settlement and on B from the date the fees were incurred to the date of settlement;*
pay Mr and Mrs S £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
* If Barclays considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from any interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much it has taken off. Barclays should also 
give Mr and Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if requested, so the tax can be reclaimed from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I order Barclays 
Bank UK Plc to settle the complaint as set out above. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman