DRN-3177901
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Howserv Limited mis-sold her an upgrade to an Avanti travel insurance 
policy.
Avanti is a trading name of Howserv Limited, but for ease of reference, Ill refer to Avanti.
What happened
On 20 February 2020, Mrs C took out a single trip travel insurance policy through Avanti. 
The policy provided the Classic level of cover and was intended to cover a trip abroad Mrs 
C had planned between 9 and 13 March 2020. The insurance was underwritten by an 
insurer Ill call G. And the policy provided cover for Mrs Cs medical conditions  including 
prior transplant surgery.
Mrs C called Avanti on 25 February 2020 to check the level of cover provided, as she was 
concerned about the impact of Covid-19 in the country she was travelling to. She wanted to 
check whether shed been covered if her doctor felt it was too high risk for her to travel. The 
call handler indicated that thered be cover if Mrs Cs doctor said she was unfit to travel. 
They went on to explain that as Covid-19 was an infectious disease, it would fall under 
Catastrophe cover, if the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly 
the Foreign & Commonwealth Office) advised against travel to that country. And they 
explained that the Classic policy only provided up to £500 of cover under the Catastrophe 
section, while the Deluxe policy would provide up to £750 of cover under this section. Mrs C 
chose to upgrade to the Deluxe level of cover and paid an additional £12.58 to do so.
Mrs C saw her consultant on 3 March 2020 and subsequently cancelled her trip on 6 March 
2020. She made a claim on her travel insurance policy. However, G turned down the claim 
because it concluded the holiday had been cancelled due to Mrs Cs disinclination to travel. 
So Mrs C complained to Avanti. She felt that its call handler had led her to believe that shed 
be covered if she was too high risk to travel and had upgraded her policy on that basis. She 
said that if she hadnt believed shed be covered, she wouldnt have cancelled the holiday 
and ultimately, shed have been entitled to a refund.
Avanti didnt agree that itd mis-sold the upgrade to Mrs C and so she asked us to look into 
her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. Overall, she didnt think 
Avantis call handler had given Mrs C misleading information about the cover or told her that 
shed be covered if she had to cancel because she was considered too high-risk.
Mrs C disagreed. She maintained the call handler had told her shed be covered if she was 
too high-risk to travel. She felt this had led to her upgrading her policy and ultimately losing 
out on the cost of her holiday. And she felt Avanti was responsible for ensuring that the 
policy met her needs.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I make clear that this decision 
will only consider whether the Deluxe upgrade was mis-sold to Mrs C. I wont be considering 
the sale of the original, Classic policy on 20 February 2020. Thats because I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Mrs C previously complained about the sale of the original policy to 
Avanti, or that its had a chance to look into this. Under our rules, we can only consider a 
complaint once a financial business has had an opportunity to investigate a consumers 
concerns. And I also wont be considering whether it was fair for G to turn down the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C, I dont think Avanti treated her unfairly 
and Ill explain why.
Like our investigator, Ive carefully listened to the call between Mrs C and Avantis call 
handler. And I dont think that Avanti recommended that Mrs C should upgrade her policy 
and pay an additional premium to do so. That means it wasnt required to check it was 
suitable for her. But it did need to give Mrs C enough clear, fair and not misleading 
information so that she could decide if the upgrade was right for her.
It's clear that Mrs C had concerns about whether or not Covid-19 would impact upon her trip. 
She asked the call handler whether if her doctor felt it was too high-risk for her to travel, the 
insurance would cover her. The call handler answered: If your GP said you are unfit to 
travel.. They went on to explain the available existing cover for Covid-19 under the 
Catastrophe section of the policy and the applicable limits. They also explained the 
applicable limits for the Deluxe policy would be £750 and said that Mrs C would be covered 
for up to £500 under the policy she already had.
Ive thought carefully about this and Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions. The call 
handler gave Mrs C the correct information about the applicable policy limits under the 
Catastrophe section of the policy for both the Classic and Deluxe levels of cover. They also 
explained that this cover would apply if the FCDO advised against travel to that country. This 
too was correct. And the terms of Mrs Cs policy did cover a policyholders illness if their 
doctor advised that they were unfit for travel. So I dont think the call handler gave Mrs C any 
misleading information on these points.
It seems Mrs C understood the call handler to mean that she would be covered if the doctor 
said she was too high-risk to travel. While Mrs C may have misunderstood what the call 
handler meant, I dont think they indicated that this was the case. In my view, the totality of 
the information the call handler gave her about the extent of Covid-19 cover was broadly 
right. And by upgrading to the Deluxe level of cover, Mrs Cs total Catastrophe limit did 
increase from £500 to £750. Ive seen that Avanti sent Mrs C upgraded documentation too, 
in line with its regulatory obligations. So I think it was open to Mrs C to check the policy 
paperwork to check the upgrade worked in the way she understood and to cancel it within 
the cooling-off period if she wasnt happy with the upgraded level of cover.
And Ive noted too that the call handler checked with Mrs C that she wasnt intending to 
make any claims at that point. Mrs C answered that she wasnt at that moment in time, as 
she hadnt received any advice to do so. I think this was an appropriate question to ask to 
ensure that Mrs C wasnt buying more cover when a claim was already most likely to be 
made. I say that because its unlikely G wouldve covered any claim Mrs C already knew 
shed be making when she upgraded the policy. So overall, whilst I sympathise with Mrs Cs position, because I appreciate shes been left 
out of pocket, I dont think Avanti gave her unclear, unfair or misleading information about 
the upgrade. I find Avanti gave Mrs C enough information about the cover to allow her to 
make an informed choice about the upgrade. This means Im not directing it to pay Mrs C 
any refund of the additional premium she paid, or compensation to the value of her lost 
holiday.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman