DRN-3725556
The complaint
Miss H complains that a car acquired with finance from Black Horse Limited trading as Land 
Rover Financial Services wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2021 Miss H was supplied with a car and entered into a personal contract purchase 
agreement with Black Horse.
Miss H experienced issues with the car. She complained to Black Horse, who upheld the 
complaint and agreed a rejection of the car. In its final response, Black Horse agreed to 
refund the following:
£1539 refund of deposit plus 8% interest
£6,340.36 partial refund of direct debits plus 8% interest
£300 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Miss H says that Black Horse also agreed to refund the cost of the number plate shed 
purchased for the car. She says the number plate is only suitable for this model of car and is 
no longer of any use to her.
Black Horse says it never agreed to refund the cost of the number plate, but that it did agree 
to cover the fee for transferring the number plate. It made a payment to Miss H to cover this.
Miss H remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there was no evidence that Black 
Horse agreed to refund the cost of the number plate.
Miss H didnt agree. She said Black Horse had verbally agreed to refund the cost of the 
number plate during a telephone conversation. She wanted this service to obtain and listen 
to the calls.
Black Horse made an offer to settle the complaint after the investigator issued her view. It 
said it was happy for Miss H to sell the number plate and retain the proceeds. It said if there 
was a difference between what Miss H paid for the number plate and what she sold it for 
(provided she sold it at market value), then it would be willing to refund the difference.
The investigator felt that this was a fair offer to resolve the complaint, But Miss H didnt 
agree. She said Black Horse had reneged on an agreement to refund the cost of the plate 
and she wanted this sum - £558  refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse upheld Miss Hs complaint about the car and agreed a rejection. I can see that 
Miss H accepted this as a resolution and the only outstanding issue is whether Black Horse 
agreed to refund the cost of the number plate. Miss H says they did agree to refund this but 
Black Horse says it didnt.
I can see that Miss H sent receipts for the number plate and the dashcam to Black Horse. 
Black Horse has refunded the cost of the dashcam but not the number plate.
Because this complaint turns on what was discussed between Miss H and Black Horse 
during telephone conversations, Ive obtained recordings of the calls and reviewed these. I 
wont comment on everything that was discussed in the calls but only on those parts which 
are relevant to my decision. 
During the call dated 16 May 2022, Black Horse confirmed that it would agree a rejection of 
the car. It said it would arrange collection of the car at no cost to Miss H, refund the sum of 
£8,685.03 plus 8% interest, remove the agreement from Miss Hs credit file and pay £300 
compensation. During the call, Miss H mentioned the costs of the dashcam and the number 
plate. The customer service representative from Black Horse said these costs would be 
considered if Miss H sent receipts. Miss H explains that the dealer had previously registered 
the car with the private plate and asked what would happen if Black Horse refunded the cost 
of the plate. The customer service representative said that the costs of transferring the plate 
would be covered and that Miss H would retain the plate, as she had purchased it.
During the call dated 23 May 2022 Miss H confirms that the private plate has been taken off 
the car. She asks about the refund of the cost of the plate. Black Horse says that the costs of 
transferring the plate (or placing it on retention) will be refunded. Miss H queries this and 
says she was told that Black Horse would refund the cost of the plate as well as the transfer 
fee.
During the call on 26 May 2022, Miss H says she is adamant that she was told that the cost 
of the plate would be refunded. Black Horse says it disagrees and that it had asked Miss H 
to send in details of these costs and that it would be reviewed.
Having listened to the calls, Im unable to say that there was an agreement that the cost of 
the number plate would be refunded. Black Horse told Miss H that it would consider this (as 
well as some other costs she wanted refunded). So at best, Black Horse agreed to consider 
these costs. It didnt agree to refund them.
I appreciate that Miss H will be disappointed with this outcome. But Ive listened to the calls 
carefully and I havent heard anything in the conversations to persuade me that an 
agreement to refund the costs of the plate was reached. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman