DRN-3709696
The complaint
Mr H complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) hasnt refunded the money he lost 
when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
In 2020, Mr H was persuaded to invest in Bitcoin through a broker. He made a number of 
payments to this broker from a different financial institution. He realised that he had been 
scammed and therefore got hold of what I will call company A. Company A said that it would 
recover the funds on Mr Hs behalf provided he pay a fee to this company via a 
cryptocurrency exchange.
On 22 June 2020, Mr H made three payments of £300 to Blockchain Bitcoin totalling £900. 
Sainsburys said that one of these payments were flagged with its automated fraud 
prevention measures and an SMS was sent. Mr H in response to the SMS confirmed hed 
authorised the transaction and therefore Sainsburys believes it did not need to have done 
anything more. It also said that it called Mr H and left him a message on the 23 June 2020 
again asking Mr H to contact them and it sent a letter to him as well.
Our investigator considered this complaint. They upheld it on the basis that they believed 
that as Sainsburys had flagged the transactions as suspicious it should have done more to 
intervene prior to the transactions being processed and that an appropriate intervention by 
Sainsburys would have stopped the scam. 
Sainsburys disagreed as it believed that it had done enough. It said the onus was on Mr H 
to perform due diligence before making the transactions and says that had Mr H done so, he 
would likely have discovered that he was being scammed.
This complaint was therefore passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mr H fell victim to a scam. His payments totalling £900 were ultimately 
sent to a fraudster. But, as he authorised them, the starting position is that Mr H would be 
liable for the payments.
But there are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practice  ought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked 
at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction, before making the payments. If 
Sainsburys failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it 
liable.
In this case, Sainsburys recognised that one of these payments were not normal for Mr H. 
Because of this, the payment was flagged on its fraud alert system and a text message was 
sent to Mr H asking him to confirm hed authorised it. I note that Sainsburys is not certain 
which payment was flagged by its fraud system. Without anything to say which payment was 
flagged, I have considered what is most likely given the overall circumstances of this 
complaint. With this in mind I think that it is more likely than not that it was the first one as 
the account had not been used before and was of a high-risk nature (according to 
Sainsburys fraud notes) given where it was intended to go.
But it isnt enough for Sainsburys to check that Mr H had authorised the payment  many 
scam victims do. And while Mr H made the payment and it was made to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange, it didnt follow that he wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud. 
Sainsburys internal notes suggest that it was concerned about potential fraud and the risks 
associated with this payment. So in the circumstances, I think Sainsburys shouldve done 
more than it did do, to check that the payment was not related to a scam before allowing it to 
be carried out. 
Had Sainsburys carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mr H appropriate 
questions about the payment before letting it be carried out, I have no reason to doubt that 
Mr H would have explained what he was doing. I say this as he had been given no reason to 
think he had to hide this information from his bank. 
Had Sainsburys asked specific questions, Im satisfied it would have realised that what was 
happening to Mr H had the hallmarks of a cryptocurrency recovery scam. So, Im persuaded 
that a meaningful intervention from Sainsburys at that time would have likely exposed the 
scam. And I think its more likely than not that intervention would have stopped Mr H from 
going ahead with any payments. 
I note that Sainsburys did phone Mr H on the 23 June 2020 and left him a message asking 
for him to call back. I think until Mr H had contacted Sainsburys and been questioned 
Sainsburys should not have allowed the payments to go through. After all, Sainsburys were 
concerned enough to text, leave a message and send a letter to Mr H.
Ive also thought carefully about whether Mr H should bear any responsibility for what 
happened. Sainsburys have explained that as Mr H had recently been the victim of a scam, 
then he should really have been more careful. But I am mindful that this was a different type 
of scam and it is not clear from a quick search on the internet that company A is a fraudulent 
company. 
I note Sainsburys comments about other things it considered a red flag such as the 
language used, the contact methods and the e-mail address. But I am not persuaded that 
they are enough to have made Mr H suspicious of who he was dealing with, especially as Mr 
H was provided with what on the face of it looks like a letter saying that A was authorised to 
recover funds. So overall I dont think that Mr H should bear responsibility for what 
happened.
Putting things right
Mr H made the payments from his credit card. So If Mr H hadnt made the payments, he 
wouldnt have incurred any interest or charges on that amount on his credit card (if indeed 
he did so). And hes been deprived of the money he used to repay his credit card. 
I therefore require Sainsburys to:Refund Mr H the £900 loss incurred from his credit card and rework his account to 
reimburse any interest and charges levied as a result, as though the payments had 
not taken place.
Pay 8% simple interest per annum, less tax, on any credit balance this would result 
in, from the date of the credit balance to the date of settlement.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Sainsburys Bank 
Plc to do what I have set out above, in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman