DRN-2808473
The complaint
Mr D complains that Utmost Life and Pensions Limited (Utmost) are at fault for his fund 
losing value. He says Utmost gave him misleading information that led him to believe all of 
his fund had been moved into a Secure Cash investment. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr D held a pension with Equitable Life that was invested in a With-Profits fund and 
a Unit-Linked fund.
Equitable Life wrote to Mr D to explain that it would increase the value of his With-Profits 
fund in return for removing guarantees attached to it. And then it would be converted into a 
Unit-Linked policy and transferred to Utmost.
A letter was sent to Mr D explaining the process, it said:
If you do not make an investment choice and the proposal goes ahead, your policy would be 
invested in a secure cash investment for six months after the transfer to Utmost Life and 
Pensions. In the following six months it would then gradually move to the Automatic 
Investment Option for your policy.
And:
The investment choice that were asking you to make is only applicable to your current With- 
Profits investments when they convert to Unit-Linked. Any existing Unit-Linked investments 
will be unchanged.
Later Equitable Life wrote to Mr D to say the process would be subject to a hearing by the 
High Court, before approval. If approved the changes would be effective as of 1 January 
2020. The letter said:
TIME TO MAKE YOUR INVESTMENT CHOICES
If the proposal goes ahead on 1 January 2020, your With-Profits Policy will be converted to a 
Unit-Linked Policy. Many of you have already made a decision about which Unit-Fund(s) to 
invest in, but if you havent we now encourage you to make your choice.
Utmost then sent Mr D a welcome letter in early February 2020, saying:
 
Any investments held in unit-linked funds before 1 January 2020 are not affected and 
remain invested in the same funds. These funds have been renamed to become Utmost Life 
and Pension funds and the appendix shows the changes to the name and objectives.
In April 2020 Utmost sent Mr D an annual statement. This showed the then current value  
which was £51,595.51 which was made up of:
 Secure Cash £36,921.85
 UK Equity £14,673.66.
Mr D complained to Utmost after his UK Equity holdings lost about £6,000 in value. He said 
he was shocked to see this as hed been told it had been moved into Secure Cash.
Utmost looked into things but said it hadnt done anything wrong. This view was shared by 
our investigator after the complaint came to us.
Mr D said he was unhappy with the investigators findings and hed expected the whole fund 
to move into Secure Cash. He thinks Utmost misled him and are responsible for the losses 
hes experienced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To uphold a complaint Id need to consider whether the balance of evidence supports that a 
business has done something wrong and caused a customer a loss.
Mr D says he was misled to believe that the whole of his investment would be moved into 
Secure Cash. And so he thought he wouldnt suffer any losses. Im sorry to hear of the shock 
Mr D suffered when he realised his fund had reduced as much as it did. But I need to decide 
if Utmost are responsible for this. Having done so, I cannot see any evidence that supports 
Mr Ds belief that Utmost are at fault.
As set out earlier Equitable Life and Utmost told Mr D that the change into cash only related 
to his With-Profits part of his policy. And he was specifically told that this wouldnt affect his 
Unit-Linked fund on two occasions. Mr D also received an annual statement which showed 
that some of his funds remained invested in the UK Equity fund and were not in Secure 
Cash.
I cant see that any of the information Mr D received was mis-leading. I can only conclude 
that Mr D unfortunately mis-understood the information or didnt give it his full attention. But I 
cant hold Utmost responsible for that. 
The process had been clearly explained and Mr D had been told it was only affecting his 
With-Profits and his Unit-Linked fund would stay the same. 
As the evidence doesnt support that Mr D was misled or that Utmost is responsible for Mr 
Ds losses, I dont think there is anything for Utmost to put right.
I appreciate this decision will be disappointing for Mr D but there are no grounds with which 
to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman