DRN-3955733
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Covea Insurance plc have declined to replace a tile on the front of her 
roof, which she believes was damaged in a storm.
 
What happened
Mrs C held a buildings insurance policy with Covea. 
In January 2022 Mrs C made a claim under her buildings insurance policy as her roof and 
her garage doors were damaged during a storm. At the time, Mrs Cs husband was 
terminally ill in hospital and so she was at the hospital every day and in a  stressful situation. 
Unfortunately, Mr C passed away in early February. 
The surveyor visited Mrs Cs property on 4 February and recommended repairs to the rear of 
the roof but not the garage. They said that garage was in a poor state of repair and damage 
was due to wear and tear. They were unable to take aerial photos of the roof as the polecam 
wasnt working.
In March, Coveas contractors came out and replaced the tiles on the back of the roof, but 
not the tile on the front. Mrs C asked the contractors about the tile on the front, but they said 
it wasnt on the job sheet. 
So, Mrs C raised this with Covea as a complaint and sent photos of the slipped tile on the 
front of the property and another cracked tile.
Covea responded saying that they had reviewed the photos and thought the tile has slipped 
due to wear and tear and so it wasnt covered. 
Mrs C brought her complaint to us.   
 
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Cs complaint and she thought that Covea had 
acted in line with the terms of the policy and settled the claim fairly. 
Mrs C disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case came to review.  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
Im intending to reach a different conclusion on this complaint to our investigator. Because of 
that, this decision will be provisional, and Ill give both sides a chance to comment before I 
make a final decision.
In this case I have to consider whether Covea have decided the claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy and come to a fair and reasonable decision in doing so. 
Im intending to uphold Mrs Cs complaint and I will explain why.
The claim notes show that on 2 February Mrs C reported to Covea that the storm had 
damaged her garage wall, taken tiles off the roof and damaged a section of brickwork above 
her garage door. The notes record that One tile is missing from the front of the roof but 
unsure if any more tiles are missing.
I can see that this information was also included in the Claims instruction sent to the 
surveyors, so they were made aware that they needed to look at the front of the roof. They 
were also made aware of Mrs Cs difficult personal circumstances. 
However, despite this, the surveyor didnt look at the front of the roof at all, and there are no 
photographs of the roof on the report provided to me from the assessors, as it says the pole  
camera wasnt working. So, we have no contemporaneous visual evidence about the state of 
the front of the roof shortly after the storm damage occurred.  
Covea have subsequently reviewed photographs taken by Mrs Cs son of the slipped tile. 
These were taken almost 2 months after the damage occurred and are not close up 
photographs. Covea said that on reviewing these, they consider that the slipped tile has 
occurred as a result of a breakdown in the mortar around the chimney, and that the 
discolouration of the exposed tile shows the damage occurred before January. They later 
said that the tile must have slipped before January.
I dont accept this reasoning. I dont think it is possible to give an accurate view on the 
condition of the mortar from the photographic evidence provided by Mrs C, and given that it 
was taken nearly two months after the storm, both any deterioration, and discoloration could 
have happened since the storm. Covea havent provided me with any evidence in their 
surveyors report which shows the state of the roof shortly after the storm. 
As a result, I am not satisfied that Covea have declined Mrs Cs claim for the slipped tile to 
the front of her roof fairly. 
In the light of these findings, I therefore intended to uphold Mrs Cs complaint, and I invited 
the parties to comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive received no comments from Covea. Mrs C has accepted the decision. And so, in light of 
the above, Im making my final decision in line with my provisional findings 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Covea should arrange for the repair of the slipped tile on the front 
of Mrs Cs house. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint and direct Covea Insurance Plc to 
put things right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman