DRN-3457957
The complaint
Mr F complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund disputed payments made from 
his current account. 
What happened
Mr F says that between 14 and 27 January 2021 fraudulent transactions totalling £4455 
were made from his current account to online gambling companies using either his debit 
card details, or through Mr Fs Paypal account..
Mr F says his debit card  along with other personal items including his laptop and wallet - 
were stolen from his car in January 2021. He believes this is how the fraudster was able to 
use his card to make the payments. Mr F has said that he does not gamble and so believes 
Nationwide should have flagged the payments as unusual much earlier than it did. Mr F also 
notes that he has been the victim of a similar fraud before and so is registered with 
Gamstop, which he says means that Nationwide should not have allowed any of the 
transactions to take place.
Nationwide investigated and decided not to refund the disputed withdrawals. It didnt agree 
that the transactions were indicative of fraud. It thought Mr F had authorised the withdrawals 
because:
the transactions were carried out using Mr Fs genuine card details and it does not 
believe Mr F has given a plausible explanation for how a fraudster could have got 
these details
Mr F was logging into his mobile banking app regularly during the period of the 
disputed payments  including viewing his bank statements  and so should have 
noticed and reported the fraud much earlier
Mr Fs spending prior to the fraud had included many similar transactions to those 
that have been disputed so this was not unusual activity for Mr Fs account
Evidence from one of the online gambling companies shows that the account that 
had been registered used some of Mr Fs details  his email address and postal 
address
As Mr F didnt agree with Nationwide decision, he asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she felt it 
was more likely that Mr F had authorised the transactions or allowed them to be made. 
Specifically, she noted that Mr F had given conflicting information about when his card had 
been stolen and that Mr F had apparently been regularly using his mobile phone to view his 
account and statements during the period of the fraud. 
Mr F disagreed, he said that he had not been logging into his mobile banking app during the 
period in question, and stated that his card had been stolen from his car before the disputed 
payments. The investigator looked into what Mr F had said about not using his mobile phone 
during the relevant period, and noted that two phones were registered to view Mr Fs 
account, but she was satisfied that the required security process in place to register a mobile 
phone was robust enough to ensure that only Mr F would have been able to register the 
devices in question. As a result, her findings remained unchanged.
Mr F asked for the answer to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out. 
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Mr F is responsible for any payments that he has authorised (either by making them himself 
or allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Fs account also explain that Nationwide will not refund 
disputed payments if it can show that the account holder has authorised that payment, or if it 
reasonably suspects fraud on the part of the account holder.
So, the key question here is whether Nationwide has acted fairly in concluding that Mr F did 
authorise the disputed payments.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Fs genuine card details were used 
to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable Nationwide to hold him liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr F consented to the 
payments being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Nationwide to conclude that Mr F 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
Mr F initially told Nationwide that his card and laptop had been stolen from his car 
around the 26th January, and he repeated this assertion in his original submissions to us. 
But some of the disputed payments took place before that date.
Mr F hasnt provided anything from the police to show that his car was broken into and 
his laptop and wallet were stolen.
There have been other inconsistencies in Mr Fs submissions to us  specifically that he 
has said Face ID does not work on his mobile phone, but the mobile access logs weve 
seen show that when he logged into his mobile banking app on 27 January and reported 
his card as lost or stolen he used Face ID.
The evidence shows that the mobile app was used to view Mr Fs account during the 
period of the disputed transactions and that two separate mobile phones are registered 
to use that app. Mr F says one of the phones is not his, but he has not given any 
reasonable explanation for how a fraudster could have got not only his card details, but 
also his security information and either his existing mobile phone or his card reader 
device, which would be required to register a new mobile phone on his account. I also 
note that if a fraudster did have full access to Mr Fs mobile banking its unusual that they 
would only use it to place bets via online gambling.
The pattern of spending in the disputed transactions is similar to spending Mr F had 
done in previous months.Some of the disputed transactions were made via Mr Fs Paypal account, which would 
mean that the fraudster would also need to have access to Mr Fs Paypal account 
details. And no clear explanation has been given for how a fraudster could have gained 
access to this account.
I acknowledge what Mr F has said about being registered with Gamstop, but my 
understanding is that Gamstop will prevent his details being used to open an online banking 
account with the companies signed up to the Gamstop service. This service doesnt say that 
it will share any of that information with banks or building societies, so it wouldnt stop 
payments being made from Mr Fs current account to gambling companies. As a result, I 
dont think Nationwide did anything wrong in allowing the gambling payments to be made.
Taking everything into account, I think, on balance, that Mr F authorised the disputed 
payments. It follows that Nationwide is entitled to hold him liable for them.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman