DRN-3481064
The complaint
Mrs S complains that two Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited endowment savings 
plans have provided her with a poor return. Shes also unhappy the policies maturity values 
were paid to her by cheque rather than electronically.
What happened
Mrs S took out two UK Select Investment Plans in 2011, paying premiums of £25 to each 
for a 10-year term - £6,000 in total. When the plans matured in February 2021, she received 
back a total of just under £6,162. 
Mrs S complained to Scottish Friendly as she was unhappy with this amount and felt she 
wouldve been better off saving elsewhere. Scottish Friendly explained that the returns 
achieved had been dependent upon investment performance. It said the illustrations given to 
Mrs S had shown the returns werent guaranteed and that she could get back more, or less, 
than the indicative amounts. As such the values paid out had been correct. 
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as Scottish Friendly and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In addition 
to agreeing with its view concerning the plans performance, he noted that Scottish Friendly 
had also confirmed it was its usual process to make maturity payments by cheque, but that 
electronic payment couldve been made if Mrs S had asked for it.  
Mrs S didnt accept the investigators view and maintained that the performance of the plans 
hadnt been good enough. As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to 
me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scottish Friendly has confirmed that the plans were sold to Mrs S on a direct sale non-
advised basis. So, it didnt assess suitability and recommend them to her. Instead, its 
responsibilities were limited to ensuring that she was provided with information about the 
plans that was clear, fair and not misleading, so she could make her own informed decision 
about whether to proceed. 
As part of this process Mrs S was issued with documentation relating to how the plans 
worked and how her premiums would be invested. And she was also provided with 
illustrations that gave figures to show what returns might be achieved depending on different 
levels of investment performance. While these figures were greater than the returns the 
plans did actually achieve upon maturity in 2021, the illustrations made clear that the figures 
were indicative and could be more or less. 
Mrs S has said that she recognised there were risks associated with the plans but 
nevertheless feels that their performance has been particularly poor. I understand her 
disappointment that she received back less than even the lowest figures shown in the 
illustrations, but Ive seen nothing to suggest the amounts paid to her were incorrect. 
The plans were invested in Scottish Friendlys UK Tracker fund, which was the lower risk, 
default option and tracked the FTSE All-share Index over a period during which there have 
been several significant falls in value, most notably at the start of the pandemic. These will 
have impacted on the returns, as will have the plans charges, the effects of which were 
explained in the documentation and illustrations. Other savings or investments may have 
achieved better returns over the same period, but that doesnt mean there was anything 
wrong with the way in which these plans were invested or administered.
In summary, I find that Scottish Friendly acted fairly and reasonably in respect of Mrs S 
plans. I note her additional concern regarding payment of the maturity proceeds, but Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for Scottish Friendly to make payment by cheque. Ive not seen 
that a guarantee was given that an alternative method would be used, or that Mrs S asked 
for one.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman