DRN-4071865
The complaint
Mr L says Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) misled his application for payment from 
his Aviva Pension Plan (APP) in late 2021. He mainly claims as follows:
That Aviva misled him (and his adviser) to believe the entire APP could be withdrawn 
as a tax-free lump sum, which resulted in him applying for such a withdrawal. 
However, only 25% of the withdrawal was tax free, the remainder was an 
Uncrystallised Funds Pension Lump Sum (UFPLS) payment that was taxable one-
off income. 
That Aviva failed to stop the withdrawal despite the obvious disparity between the 
wholly tax-free payment he had applied for and the majority taxed payment that was 
processed.
That the matter resulted in a significant tax liability on him, which would not have 
happened but for Avivas error. He would have limited his application to the 25% tax-
free element only if he was properly informed. 
That the matter also resulted in loss of a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) option 
because of the withdrawal and in the exhaustion of his Money Purchase Annual 
Allowance (MPAA) for the 2021/22 tax year, which prevented him from contributing 
into another plan in order to mitigate the situation.
That he should be compensated for his losses and for the stress and inconvenience 
caused to him.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and issued two views on it. Both views 
upheld the complaint. The second addressed additional information from Aviva and both 
parties comments after the first.
Overall, the investigator mainly found that Avivas initial illustration to Mr L in August 2021 
contained the error, in which the entire APPs value was described as tax-free; a statement 
for the APP in November 2021 updated its value; Mr L and his adviser applied for payment 
of the APPs full value in the same month; there is evidence that, internally, Aviva noted the 
error on 15 December 2021, but it then spoke to Mr L on the same date and whilst it told him 
the tax-free status of the payment had to be checked it also told him it could see no reason 
why it was not correct; on 17 December 2021 both sides spoke again and this time Aviva 
informed him about the error (that the APPs value had tax-free and taxable elements); a 
revised quotation (setting out the tax-free and taxable elements of the APP) was sent to him 
on 20 December but he says he did not receive it; both parties then spoke again on 29 
December 2021, during which Mr Ls statements showed he still believed all of the APPs 
value could be withdrawn tax-free and, in response, Aviva did not correct him; then on 13 
January 2022 the payment to him (including tax-free and taxable elements) was confirmed.
The investigator concluded that Mr L had initially been misled by the first illustration; the 
telephone call on 17 December then notified him of the error but he does not appear to have 
properly understood its implications; he says he did not receive the revised quotation; in his 
last conversation with Aviva (before the payment) he repeated his misunderstanding that the 
payment was completely tax-free and Aviva did not correct him; there is evidence from 
Avivas internal process that it set itself a requirement to verify that Mr L wished to proceed 
with the payment on the correct basis, but it never conducted this verification; it ought to 
have done so before making the payment; and because it did not do that the payment was 
made.
For these reasons the investigator upheld the complaint. After the second view, Aviva 
agreed with the investigators findings on merit and redress (and compensation). However, 
Mr Ls adviser said he considered the findings on redress and compensation to be 
inadequate. The investigator had mainly found that:
Avivas offer to Mr L of £300 compensation for the trouble and inconvenience caused 
to him is insufficient. Instead, an award of £500 for this would be fair. The shock of a 
tax liability he did not expect would have caused an impact upon him. This would 
have been compounded by learning it had resulted from an error in the first instance 
and by the loss of capacity in his MPAA. The overall situation would have taken extra 
effort to address. Balanced with the fact that Mr L benefited from an advisers 
assistance at the time, which would have lessened the impact, an award of £500 for 
trouble and inconvenience is fair and reasonable. 
Redress for Mr Ls tax liability cannot fairly be the refund (of tax paid) that he seeks. 
He has said, but for Avivas error, he would have withdrawn only the tax-free 25% 
value from the APP and left the remainder invested; that he would not have needed 
any more from the APP for some time because he had access to £20,000 in savings 
and more than that amount in tax-free cash in another policy; and that, in retirement, 
he needed £1,100 per month income in addition to his state pension and would be 
able to meet this through his cash balances for up to four years.
In this context, and given his state pension income, if he withdrew only the tax-free 
25% value from the APP any subsequent and future drawdown from the remainder 
would have attracted tax at his marginal rate of 20%. As such, it was always to be 
taxed and a refund of the tax he paid because of the full withdrawal would put him in 
a better position, which is not a fair outcome.
Instead, fair redress is the difference between the tax he paid because of the full 
withdrawal (in the 2021/22 tax year) and the tax he would likely have paid on future 
withdrawals of/from the remainder value of the APP if he had liquidated only the 25% 
tax-free cash. 
It is impossible to know when the future withdrawals would have been made and 
what the future value(s) of the remainder of the APP would be, so calculation of 
redress will need some assumptions and should be as follows  begin with the tax-
free cash Mr L could have withdrawn from the APP at the outset; deduct that from its 
full value; assume that over time the remainder value would have been subject to 
20% tax upon withdrawals; calculate that tax (which should result in £5,594.92); 
deduct £5,594.92 from the £10,863.36 tax liability he actually incurred because of the 
full payment; the difference of £5,268.44 will be the excess tax he paid and will be 
the amount Aviva should pay him as redress; there is a matter of a £1,866.96 tax 
rebate he received in the 2021/22 tax year, if this relates to the APP pay-out it should 
be reflected in the calculations; and no interest should apply to the redress amount because it is money that would have remained invested in the APP, not money that 
would have been available to Mr L.
Mr Ls advisers comments, and the investigators replies, were mainly as follows:
He does not consider that £500 is enough to address the trouble and inconvenience 
the matter has caused him. However, he understands our service could be limited in 
terms of what we can award him in this respect. In response, the investigator 
retained the finding that £500 is fair.
He had a personal allowance with capacity to cover annual withdrawals (through 
Flexible Access Drawdowns) from the APP of £1,570 without triggering an income 
tax liability. This would have happened over the four years mentioned by the 
investigator and it was common for the adviser to make arrangements like this for 
clients like him in order to provide additional tax-free funds during each tax year. This 
scenario, and the reduced tax liability within it, ought to be reflected in the calculation 
of tax he would have paid for future withdrawals. In response, the investigator said 
this submission conflicts with Mr Ls and his advisers earlier assertion that he had 
access to alternative funds and would not have had a need to use the APPs funds 
for four years.
After the fourth year, some capacity will remain (and continue) within his personal 
allowance to cover around £1,200 of the additional £13,200 per year he would need 
to withdraw to augment his state pension. This scenario, and the reduced tax liability 
within it, also needs to be reflected in the calculation of tax on future withdrawals. In 
response, the investigator repeated that this too conflicts with his earlier assertion 
about what would have happened if the APPs full value had not been withdrawn.  
It is unfair not to apply either interest or performance to the APPs remainder value in 
the calculations. Interest can be justified on the argument that Mr L would have had 
access to that value through drawdowns, so interest compensates for being denied 
that access. Performance can be justified on the basis that the remainder would have 
been invested and would have had investment performance. There is evidence of 
how the investment in another pension policy he held has performed to the level of 
10.46% per year since inception, with a four-year return (up to 2022) of 35.55%. In 
response, the investigator said that with regards to interest it was Mr Ls claim that 
but for the erroneous full withdrawal he would not have accessed the remainder of 
the APP after taking the tax-free element. With regards to performance, the 
investigator said there are conflicting accounts of what would have happened with 
the APP, but for the full withdrawal, and it is impossible to know what Mr Ls future 
actions would have been in terms of investment within it, and impossible to know 
whether (or not) any such investment would have performed with growth or at a loss. 
Hence the assumption, for the calculation, that the APPs value would remain the 
same.
He would counter propose settlement of his complaint on the terms of £7,250 in 
redress and the £500 award for trouble and inconvenience. In response, the 
investigator noted that the redress counter proposal was not backed by a calculation.
The matter was referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has accepted the investigators finding of its liability in the complaint. I have reviewed 
the complaints merits and I agree with this finding and with the key point (in its support) 
made by the investigator  a point which also complements one of the key arguments Mr L 
put forward. 
Evidence shows there was a clear mismatch between the payment he applied for in 
November 2021 and the payment made to him in January 2022. He applied for full payment 
of the APPs value as a completely tax-free payment, yet the payment that was processed 
and made included both tax-free and taxable elements. His application was informed by the 
erroneous illustration from Aviva in August 2021. His advisers covering letter of 9 November 
2021, which was submitted with the application form, asked for a completely tax-free 
payment. The application form itself includes annotation that refers to ALL TAX FREE 
[followed by a word I cannot make out]. The application was never revised. As Mr L says, 
Aviva made the payment without ever formally reconciling the mismatch. As the investigator 
said, it failed to uphold the requirement it had noted for itself to do so prior to payment (that 
is, to verify that Mr L wanted the part tax-free and part taxable payment before it was made). 
There is evidence that the error was brought to Mr Ls attention (on 17 December) after his 
application but before the payment was made. I have also noted an argument Aviva 
previously made about his advisers responsibility in the matter. However, ultimately it was 
its mishandling of the process that allowed the payment to be made without confirmation and 
verification that he agreed with the very important change of condition for the payment. This 
ought to have been avoided. Especially as his application was explicitly made on the 
grounds that the entire payment was to be tax-free, and especially after the last conversation 
with him in December 2021, whereby despite having been told about the error in the 
preceding conversation he continued to refer to an expectation of a full tax-free payment  
and was not corrected by Aviva. Overall and on balance, I consider Avivas liability for the 
payment, and for the tax consequences to Mr L arising from the payment, to be well 
founded. The latter (tax liability) would not have happened but for the former (payment).
Mr L appears to have accepted the investigators finding that £500 should be awarded to him 
for the trouble and inconvenience the complaint matter has caused him. I consider that he 
has accepted this finding, albeit reluctantly, because he used the same amount in his 
counter proposal for settlement. 
I have reviewed the award and I too find it to be reasonable in the circumstances of his case. 
My consideration has been balanced by reflection of the opportunity he had  but missed  
to mitigate his experience by taking proper notice of and/or advice on information about the 
error he was given on 17 December. The same applies to the fact that impact, from the 
experience, upon him would have been reduced by his advisers assistance during the 
process. It is also my view that an award of £500 extends to covering the effect of losing 
capacity in his MPAA at the time. I would extend this further to cover any upset caused to  
Mr L in losing the potential GAR option following the full withdrawal  there is a lack of 
evidence to support a quantifiable financial loss in this respect, so the matter of upset 
caused appears to be the limit. Overall and on balance, £500 is a fair and reasonable award 
for the net effect of the trouble and upset caused to Mr L in the circumstances of his case.
Aviva accepts responsibility to redress the tax liability issue and it does so on the grounds 
and calculations set out by the investigator. Mr L disagrees with those grounds and 
calculations. 
Avivas letter to Mr L of 13 January 2022 confirmed the following  the APPs value was 
£37,299.50; its taxable part was £27,974.62 and the tax deducted from that was £10,863.36; so, the net payment to him was £26,436.14.
From his perspective, I can understand why Mr L would simply ask for coverage of the tax 
he incurred. However, the subject matter is essentially the taxable element of his APP. In 
other words, in the absence of evidence that this element would eventually have been 
accessed in a way that completely avoided tax, the implication is that tax would always have 
been applicable to any future partial or full withdrawal from it. 
If Mr L withdrew only the tax-free payment from the APP, there is no evidence of an 
arrangement in which future withdrawal of all its remainder value (either over time or at 
once) was planned to happen without triggering a tax liability. At best, and as I summarised 
in the previous section, his argument is that those withdrawals would have happened with a 
lower tax liability than the investigator assumed. 
As the investigator noted, this argument conflicts with the claims initially made in support of 
his complaint. In his initial complaint letter, he said that had he known about the taxable 
element in the payment he would not have opted for it, and that he would have limited his 
application to the tax-free element only,  and not drawn any income at all. 
In correspondence with Mr Ls adviser, the investigator probed further into this issue. His 
adviser repeatedly confirmed a scenario in which, had he withdrawn only the tax-free 
payment, Mr L did not intend to draw further from the APP, had no need to do so and would 
not have done so. The sum of his submissions, some of which were repeated during the 
correspondence, was that Mr L needed £24,000 per year in retirement, £11,000 (per year) of 
this was to be derived from his state pension, the remainder was to be derived from the total 
cash reserves (cash holdings and tax-free drawings from another pension) he had at the 
time, this would have sustained him for up to around four years, and there was no planned 
future expenditure at the time that caused a foreseeable need to draw from the APP.
The above serves as reasonable grounds to conclude that, based on payment of the tax-free 
element of the APP (only), the remainder value in Mr Ls APP would have remained as it 
was and untouched for around four years. The arguments made in his objection to the 
investigators redress findings go against the earlier claims. The alternative claim is now that 
there would have been a need for Mr L to draw from the APP (within his personal allowance) 
throughout the four years and thereafter, and that he would have done so. 
At worst, these contradicting accounts  one without qualification that avoids conflict with the 
other  suggest that neither is reliable. They could also suggest that only the initial account 
is reliable and that the subsequent one has mainly been a reaction to the investigators view 
on redress. On balance, I am persuaded that the initial account, alone, is reliable. It was 
given freely and it was repeated/endorsed to us by Mr L and his adviser. It was also broadly 
consistently maintained up to around the investigators first view. Furthermore, his advisers 
argument about the application of investment performance to the calculation of redress 
appears to be much more committed than the argument for interest based on access to 
funds  which suggests an acknowledgement on Mr Ls part that the APP would probably 
have remained untouched, as opposed to being liquidated. 
For the above reasons,  I do not accept that there are grounds to consider interest in the 
calculation of redress; and I do not accept that some of the taxable remainder value in the 
APP (assuming only the tax-free element had been drawn) could have been accessed 
without triggering a tax liability; instead I consider that drawings from the remainder value 
would probably have been deferred for around four years, then thereafter any such drawings 
would probably have been subject to income tax (at Mr Ls marginal rate, 20%).
The next issues to address are investment performance and the tax rebate Mr L received around June 2022.
Mr Ls argument for reflection of investment performance in the calculation of redress is not 
unreasonable. After all, what I have addressed above concludes that the taxable remainder 
of the APP would probably have remained invested. This naturally couples the notion of 
investment performance. However, key unknowns prevent such a consideration in his case. 
It is unclear, and it cannot safely be assumed, what the investment term would have been 
before all value was withdrawn from the APP. It is also unclear, and it also cannot be safely 
assumed, what the changing capital amounts (on which performance would need to be 
calculated) would be over the [unknown] investment term given the probability that after 
around four years withdrawals from the APP would probably have been made.
Put slightly differently  performance cannot safely be calculated without knowing the 
amount(s) and timings of probable withdrawals from the APP around four years after 
2021/22; that means we cannot know what capital would have remained invested after such 
withdrawals; and the same applies to the fact that we cannot know the period of time over 
which the different capital remainder amounts would have continued to be invested. These 
are broadly the same difficulties the investigator expressed. There is no reliable evidence to 
resolve them. Nevertheless, a value for the APP (after withdrawal of the tax-free element) 
must still be used to calculate what would have been Mr Ls tax liability over time. For that 
purpose, and as a compromise in the circumstances, I consider it broadly fair and 
reasonable to assume the same value it had at the point of payment in January 2022.
With regards to the tax rebate, the investigator suggested that clarification should be sought 
on whether (or not) the rebate was connected to the payment from the APP. There appears 
to be evidence from Mr Ls adviser suggesting that the rebate was directly connected to that 
payment. In email correspondence with us on 20 December 2022 a copy of the HMRC 
rebate related letter was shared, as was his P45 for the 2021/22 year. The advisers 
description of information about the rebate was as follows  
This should confirm the refund by HMRC of £1,866.96 in June/July 2022 was in respect to 
the overtaxing of the Aviva payment. So, of the total income tax paid to HMRC by Aviva 
((£10,863.36), the sum of £1,866.96 has been repaid to [Mr L] by HMRC.
Putting things right
I have explained, above, the reasons behind the redress and compensation that I will award 
Mr L and will order Aviva to calculate and pay to him. In this section, I set out the relevant 
orders to Aviva. Mr L is also ordered to engage meaningfully and co-operatively with Aviva to 
provide it with information and documentation he has that is relevant to its calculation of 
redress and needed to settle redress, and that it does not already have. 
To compensate Mr L fairly, Aviva must do as follows:
Pay him £500 for the trouble and inconvenience the complaint matter has caused 
him.
He paid £10,863.36 in tax on the taxable element of the APP payment he received in 
January 2022. 
The payment statement shows that this arose from the taxable part of the APP 
valued at £27,974.62. As I treated above, this taxable part of the APP would have 
remained as it was but for Avivas erroneous payment. It is to be assumed that the 
same value would exist when the Mr L would have withdrawn it, over time or at once, 
in the future. The withdrawal(s) would probably have been subject to income tax at his marginal rate of 20%, so he would have paid 20% of £27,974.62 income tax. As 
such, but for Avivas erroneous payment, he would have paid £5,594.92 income tax 
on the taxable element of the APP.
The difference between the £10,863.36 tax he paid because of Avivas erroneous 
payment and the £5,594.92 tax he would probably have paid without that erroneous 
payment is £5,268.44. This is A.
Available evidence suggests that £1,866.96 out of the £10,863.36 tax payment was 
rebated and refunded to Mr L. If his now disputes this both parties (perhaps with any 
possible assistance from HMRC) must engage with each other in order to establish 
whether (or not) the rebate was connected to the Aviva payment. Otherwise, and if 
he stands by his advisers earlier admission of the connection (as I quoted in the 
previous section) the rebate amount must be deducted from A. The result is 
£3,401.48. This is B.
If the tax rebate received by Mr L was connected to the Aviva payment, Aviva must 
pay him B in redress. If the tax rebate was not connected to the Aviva payment, 
Aviva must pay him A in redress.
Redress must be accurately based on the income tax Mr L would have paid on the taxable 
element of the APP in the scenario (and assumptions) that I have set out in this decision and 
in this section. If, in this context and with relevant information from HMRC and/or upon a 
redress calculation by an actuary (if the parities choose and agree to use one) the correct 
and relevant figures differ to what I have stated above, such correct and relevant figures 
should be reflected instead. Otherwise, what I have stated above must be applied.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint. I order Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to calculate and pay him compensation and redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman