DRN-3819599
The complaint
Mr G complains that Assicurazioni Generali SpA (AGS) has turned down an incapacity claim 
he made on a group income protection policy.
Mr Gs represented by a solicitor, but for simplicity, Ill refer simply to Mr G.
What happened
Mr G was insured under his employers group income protection policy. AGS became the 
policy insurer in November 2018. Mr G was employed as a Compliance Manager and 
Director and had joined the employer in 2017. The policy provided Mr G with cover for his 
own occupation. The specified deferred period was 26 weeks.
In 1997, Mr G had been diagnosed with an eye condition, which caused progressive 
deterioration. In August 2018, Mr G let his employer know that his condition was causing him 
some difficulty in carrying out his role and so he was referred for a vocational rehabilitation 
assessment under his employers old income protection policy scheme. The assessor 
recommended some adjustments.
And in April 2019, Mr Gs role was amended to also include a Global Ambassador function, 
which was considered to be a more strategic function. However, Mr G said that given his 
management duties, he hadnt been able to fulfil the ambassador duties.
Mr Gs eyesight continued to deteriorate and in February 2020, he was signed off sick from 
work. He said he was no longer able to carry out the substantial and material duties of his 
role. His employer made an income protection claim on the policy on Mr Gs behalf.
AGS turned down Mr Gs claim. Ultimately, it concluded that while Mr G was unable to carry 
out the duties of his previous role as a result of his eye condition, he hadnt shown that he 
was unable to fulfil the substantial and material duties of the Global Ambassador role. And it 
wasnt satisfied that Mr G had provided enough evidence to show thered been a 
deterioration in his eye condition during the relevant period. So it concluded that Mr G hadnt 
shown he met the policy definition of incapacity.
Mr G was unhappy with AGS decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our Investigator thought that Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. She felt the available 
medical evidence demonstrated that Mr Gs vision had deteriorated. 
And she was also persuaded that Mr Gs treating specialist had provided evidence to show 
that Mr G met the policy definition of incapacity. So she recommended that AGS should pay 
Mr Gs claim, together with interest of 8%. However, she wasnt persuaded that AGS should 
cover Mr Gs legal expenses and neither did she think it needed to cover consequential 
losses Mr G had said hed incurred. Nor did the Investigator consider that AGS ought to pay 
Mr G any compensation for its handling of the claim.
Neither AGS nor Mr G accepted the Investigators recommendations. Ill briefly summarise 
their responses below:
AGS response
It didnt dispute that Mr G had a progressive condition. But its decision to decline the 
claim was based on an assessment of it in line with the policy terms and conditions 
and its understanding of what Mr Gs job role was;
Following Mr Gs vocational assessment by the old policy insurer, the new Global 
Ambassador role had been created. This had a focus on training and reduced screen 
time and AGS considered that this was the role it was insuring;
But Mr G actively and knowingly chose not to perform the new role when it was 
created and this had been evidenced in a performance review. Instead, hed 
prioritised the compliance role and continued to perform eye-intensive tasks. So it 
didnt think hed taken reasonable steps to mitigate eyestrain and fatigue, which had 
resulted in his absence;
It didnt agree that there was little evidence to show that Mr G had changed his job 
role and referred to a letter from his manager. This stated that Mr Gs duties as 
compliance manager had been decreased, while his role as director of compliance 
had been expanded. The letter also said that Mr G had been named as a Global 
Ambassador to provide an emphasis on training and teaching others. And it felt Mr 
Gs social media profile supported its position;
It felt that the applicable test to show incapacity wasnt just whether Mr Gs condition 
prevented him from carrying out the duties of his role; but also to demonstrate that 
eyestrain and fatigue left Mr G incapable of working. It concluded there wasnt 
enough medical evidence to show that Mr G was incapable of carrying out the Global 
Ambassador role;
And it wasnt persuaded that Mr G had provided evidence of a material change in his 
eye condition during the relevant period. It didnt agree that the eye tests Mr G had 
undergone showed why he was capable of work on one day and not on the next. It 
wasnt persuaded Mr G had shown evidence of physical or cognitive functionality;
While it accepted Mr G had provided evidence from his treating specialist which 
stated that Mr G couldnt perform the duties of his role; it considered this evidence 
referred to the compliance manager role rather than the Global Ambassador role. It 
was therefore not thought to be relevant evidence;
It was concerned that the Investigator hadnt considered that Mr G worked over his 
contracted hours and that again, he hadnt taken reasonable steps to mitigate his 
symptoms.Mr Gs response
Mr G considered that in addition to the backdated claim payment with interest, he
should also be entitled to an award for compensation; consequential loss and his
legal fees;
He also considered that AGS should be required to pay the claim on an ongoing
basis;
He said hed been suffering from anxiety and depression as a result of the decline of
the claim;
Hed had to access capital to cover his expenses while the claim wasnt being paid,
in the form of an equity release loan. This had meant his previous lender had
charged him an early repayment charge of around £8900;
Given Mr Gs eye condition and the complexity of the claim; it had been reasonable
and necessary for him to seek specialist legal support and so he felt a costs award
should be made in respect of his legal costs;
He felt AGS had lied to manufacture a reason to decline the claim;
And he requested that any award should set out an explicit account of factors such
as the precise calculation of backdated simple interest payments on missed annuity
payments, and the contractual application of backdated RPI uplifts etc.
My first provisional decision
I issued my first provisional decision on 22 July 2022. In my provisional decision, I set out
the reasons why I intended to uphold Mr Gs complaint. I said:
First Id like to reassure Mr G and AGS that while Ive summarised the background to this
complaint and all of the detailed submissions which have been sent to us, Ive carefully
considered all thats been provided. In making my decision though, I havent commented on
each and every point either party has made and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive
focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive thought about, amongst other things,
the terms of Mr Gs policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether AGS
handled Mr Gs claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy, as these form the basis of his
contract with AGS. Mr Gs employer made a claim on his behalf for incapacity benefit, given
he wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for AGS to consider
whether Mr Gs claim met the policy definition of incapacity. Ive turned then to look at AGS
definition of incapacity. This says that the definition of incapacity:
means the Definition of Incapacity specified in the Policy Schedule in respect of the
Members or any group of Members. This is the test against which the validity of any claim
will be measured.
Mr Gs policy schedule states incapacity means that:As a result of illness or injury, the Member is incapable of performing the Material and
Substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not carrying out any other Work
or occupation.
This means that in order for AGS to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that its a
policyholders illness which prevents them from carrying out the material and substantial
duties of their own occupation.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim
on their policy. This means it was Mr Gs responsibility to provide AGS with enough evidence
to demonstrate that his illness had led to him being unable to carry out the material and
substantial duties of his occupation.
AGS assessed the evidence Mr G provided in support of his claim and concluded that it
didnt indicate that he was unable to carry out the material and substantial duties of the role
that it believed it was insuring. Or that he met the policy definition of incapacity in this regard.
So Ive next looked at the available medical and employers evidence to assess whether I
think this was a fair conclusion for AGS to draw.
What was Mr Gs insured role?
Its common ground that Mr G was diagnosed with a degenerative eye condition many years
ago. AGS doesnt dispute either Mr Gs diagnosis or prognosis. Instead, it seems to me that
the key issue I need to decide is whether it was fair for AGS to treat Mr Gs insured role as a
Global Ambassador. And based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think it was for reasons Ill
go on to explore.
Ive first considered Mr Gs claim form. This says that Mr G was unable to carry out the
following aspects of his role:
Review of contracts, review / creation of spreadsheets, reading and writing numerous
emails, extensive use of systems requiring me to read text. These activities and other
requiring any moderate-significant amount of reading put severe strain on my eyes leading
to chronic fatigue. See attached note for further information.
Mr G stated that his job role was as a Compliance Sales Director and set out his usual duties
and working hours. It also set out the adjustments his employer had already made to make
his employment more comfortable. Mr G said that his essential duties were as a compliance
director, with the primary responsibilities of compliance manager and in addition, as a Global
Ambassador. Mr Gs employer also completed part of the claim form. I note that the
employer stated that Mr Gs role was as a Compliance Sales Director. They noted that Mr
Gs precise duties were:
Reviewing and creation of spreadsheets. Significant volume of email review and response.
Use of systems and reading text. Reading and reviewing contracts, audits, conference calls
and attending occasional international meetings. (Mr Gs) role also involves managing 2
Compliance Managers.
The employer also said that the physical demands of Mr Gs role were:
Extensive use of vision required for accuracy in all activities. This has resulted in extreme 
fatigue due to the physical strain.
Additionally, the employer noted on the claim form that in April 2019, Mr Gs role was
adjusted to include an ambassadorial role, with a view to a more strategic focus. But it wenton to say:
However, such was the volume of work required as the sales compliance directorthere
was not the capacity for Mr G to take on the ambassadorial duties.
And Mr Gs employer said: (Mr G) is no longer able to carry out all fundamental aspects of
his role due to his condition. Carrying out these activities caused (Mr G) to experience
significant stress and fatigue.
In my view, the information set out on the claim form in respect of Mr Gs role clearly states
that Mr Gs main role was as a compliance director, including management duties. It seems
the ambassadorial function was added to his role in April 2019.
Moreover, Mr Gs employer (including his main line manager and HR business partner) have
provided additional evidence in support of Mr Gs claim. Ill summarise what I consider to be
the key points each has made:
Mr Gs line manager said that hed: substantially decreased (Mr Gs) duties associated with
compliance manager andexpanded his duties as compliance director. (Mr G) was also
named as Global Ambassador.
The HR business partner responded to AGS as follows:
Adjustments were attempted in-role to try and introduce ambassador duties alongside (Mr
Gs) core compliance duties. These additional duties were introduced to try and leverage the
skills and experience (Mr G) had to provide an emphasis over time on training others and
sharing knowledge. The hope was that these in-role adjustments would eventually reduce
the eyesight-intensive activities. However, the core responsibilities within his Compliance
Director role remained.
She continued:
(Mr G) was carrying out the role of Compliance Director for which he was employed. The
additional hours (Mr G) was working was partly due to the additional time activities would
take due to his condition. (Mr Gs) role is very eyesight intensive, and requires detailed
review of contracts, spreadsheets and email usage.
Mr Gs manager said:
Having carefully reviewed the contents of the FOS complaint, I confirm that all of the
statements made by Mr G in relation to the material and substantial duties of his employed
occupation are accurate.
In particular, I refer to comments made in relation to the nature and purpose of Mr Gs role
being primarily focused and measured on revenue-generation.
In addition, Generali's characterisation of Mr Gs role and duties does not reflect the reality of
his employed occupation.
In a further letter to our service (which has already been shared with AGS), Mr Gs line
manager stated:
The characterisation of Mr Gs role as having been largely or entirely transformed to a
training and education role, requiring very little in the way of eyesight-intensive duties is
plainly falseWhen I referred tocompliance manager duties and said that these were exhausting his
available capacity, I was referring to compliance-related duties performed by Mr G in his role
as compliance director, a role which I have referred to throughout and made clear was his
job title
Further the ambassadorial duties constituted a very small component of Mr Gs duties
(around 15%) which were secondary to those associated with his core revenue function as
director of compliance.
Taking together the totality of the detailed evidence provided by Mr G and his employer, Im
currently satisfied that Mr Gs insured role was as a compliance director. I dont think it was
reasonable for AGS to maintain that Mr Gs main role was a Global Ambassador given the
evidence his employer has provided during the life of this claim. While I accept Mr Gs
employer arranged for reasonable adjustments to be made for his condition following his
rehabilitation assessment in 2018 and the inclusion of the ambassador role in April 2019, I
dont think its fair to say that these changes represented a whole new role. In my view, the
employer has made it very clear that the ambassador role was very much a small addition to
Mr Gs duties, which was ultimately intended to reduce the eyesight-intensive tasks he was
involved in carrying out. As such then, I currently find that AGS should assess whether Mr G
is prevented from carrying out the material and substantial duties of a compliance director.
Has Mr G provided evidence that he is incapacitated from carrying out his role?
AGS seems to suggest that during the relevant period, Mr G didnt suffer a significant
deterioration in his eyesight. So Ive carefully considered the available medical evidence on
this point.
In November 2020, Mr Gs consultant ophthalmic surgeon wrote the following:
Since January 2017 Mr Gs visual acuity has worsened from (RE 5/60, LE 6/60) to 2/60 in
both eyes. This is equivalent to almost 70% deterioration of his central vision in less than
four years
The impact of this degree of vision-loss to any individual would be profound.
Given that Mr Gs' prior visual acuity was already severely diminished such that he was
registered severely sight impaired / blind, the relative magnitude of the worsening and
impact on his ability to read cannot be overstated.
Compared to his last visit in December 2018 (RE 3/60 ,LE 6/60) the rate of overall
deterioration has significantly accelerated.
In October 2021, Mr Gs visual acuity in both eyes was noted to be 1/60.
It seems to me then that the medical evidence points to a clear and significant deterioration
in Mr Gs condition during both the life of the policy and of the claim.
The available medical evidence also supports a clear conclusion that Mr G meets the policy
definition of incapacity for his insured role. I say that because his consultant surgeon has
unequivocally stated the following:
As stated within our letter dated 9th April 2020, we did not expect a patient with Mr Gs
condition, prognosis and visual acuity as of December 2018 to be able to perform the duties
that were described within his letter dated 6th May 2020 in relation to a PHI claim.
Having also reviewed Mr Gs job description for the role of (compliance sales), we do notconsider him able to perform these duties either, especially given the severe deterioration of
his condition since 2018 and future prognosis.
It therefore remains our clear opinion that Mr G meets the definition of incapacity, which we
understand to be As a result of illness or injury, the Member is incapable of performing the
Material and Substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not carrying out any other
work or occupation.
While AGS says it doesnt consider the surgeons letter to be relevant evidence, as it doesnt 
think the surgeon assessed Mr Gs capacity against the correct job role, I disagree. And in
March 2022, Mr Gs consultant surgeon provided further evidence which says:
For the avoidance of doubt, what I was referring to is the material and substantial duties of
the role described within Section C of Mr Gs complaint.
Furthermore, the continued deterioration of Mr Gs vision, as detailed within the medical
report of 20 October, reinforces my opinion that Mr G clearly meets the policy definition of
Incapacity.
Mr Gs surgeon is an expert in his field, working at a specialist hospital, who has treated Mr
G for a number of years and observed his condition. He has commented on the deterioration
of Mr Gs condition and the resultant impact on Mr Gs ability to carry out his role. In my
view, he is best placed to decide whether Mr Gs illness prevents him from working and
whether or not his condition has worsened. So Ive placed weight on the consultants
comments in reaching this provisional decision.
Taken together with Mr Gs and his employers comments about the duties of his role, I
currently find that Mr Gs condition prevented him from carrying out his substantial and
material duties, despite the adjustments that had already been made for him. This means Im
presently satisfied that Mr G has provided enough evidence to demonstrate that he meets
the policy definition of incapacity.
I appreciate AGS feels that Mr G failed to take reasonable steps to mitigate his condition,
such as reducing his hours or reducing the management function to focus on the
ambassador role. Ive thought carefully about this. And Ive relied particularly on Mr Gs
managers comments in this regard. He said:
It is true that as his eyesight worsened, Mr G tried to manage his role by working particularly
long hours. But the implication that reducing his hours to a 9-5 schedule would have helped
him perform more of the material and substantial duties of his role is absurd
The business had todetermine the best use of (Mr Gs) reduced capacity. It was never in
doubt thatMr Gs time would be best spent on his core revenue-generating duties as
Compliance Director.
It seems to me then that Mr G had little choice but to focus on his core role. And by his
account, which I find both plausible and persuasive, Mr G said that he was working more
hours because his tasks were eyesight-intensive and therefore, both took longer and caused
him intense fatigue. It doesnt seem fair then for AGS to consider these as reasonable
factors to rely on to decline Mr Gs claim.
As such, I currently think the fair outcome in regard to the claim is for AGS to accept Mr Gs
incapacity claim from the date the deferred period ended on 3 August 2020 and to backdate
claim payments from that date. Its open to AGS to periodically review Mr Gs claim and to
request further evidence to determine whether or not it should remain in payment. AGS willalso need to add interest to the backdated settlement at an annual rate of 8% simple from
the date of each payment was due until the date of settlement.
Should AGS cover Mr Gs legal fees and consequential loss?
I understand how strongly Mr G feels that his legal fees should be paid and Ive given a great
deal of thought to this issue. I understand that Mr G is registered blind and that in order to
bring his complaint to us without representation, hed have needed to provide verbal
evidence. However, as our Investigator explained, we are a free, informal accessible service, 
which is able to make adjustments for the needs of our customers. And our file suggests that
Mr G has been able to communicate with us separately to his solicitor. So on this basis, Im
currently not persuaded that Mr G needed a solicitor to bring his complaint to us and it
follows that Im not minded to award Mr Gs legal costs.
Mr G has also claimed for consequential losses, in the form of an early repayment charge he
paid following the early repayment of his mortgage. He says this was to raise capital
because the decline of the claim left him without access to funds. The 8% interest award Ive
outlined above is designed to compensate consumers for the loss of access to money they
were entitled to and may often reflect a consumers consequential losses. 8% simple interest
is generally higher than many high street bank savings rates. And by my calculation, an
award of 8% simple interest on the backdated claim payments I intend AGS to make to Mr G
is likely to exceed the early repayment charge he has incurred. So Im not intending AGS to
pay any further award in this regard.
I do, however, invite further submissions and evidence on this point.
Should AGS pay Mr G compensation for distress and inconvenience?
Our Investigator didnt think AGS needed to pay Mr G compensation for his trouble and
upset. However, I disagree on this point. While I acknowledge that the impact of Mr Gs
condition on his ability to work is always likely to have caused him significant upset, I
currently think that AGS handling of the claim added to this. In my view, AGS had enough
information from the outset to accept and to pay Mr Gs claim and its decision not to do so
has undoubtedly caused Mr G significant additional anxiety about his lack of income. I note
too that in Mr Gs treating doctors have stated that his employment situation has in part
caused Mr G to suffer from anxiety and depression.
So I currently think that AGS should pay Mr G compensation to reflect the trouble and upset
he was caused by its poor handling of the claim, in the amount of £500.
I also recommended that if the total claim payment I intended to direct AGS to pay was more
than our award limit of £355,000, it should pay the balance. I said that this recommendation
wasnt part of my determination or award and that AGS didnt have to accept it. And I
explained that it was unlikely that Mr G could accept my decision and then go to court to ask
for the balance.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to
consider.
AGS provided us with a breakdown of the backdated payments itd calculated Mr G would be
due, together with RPI increases and the interest which would be due. It didnt dispute my
provisional findings. This calculation was sent to Mr G.
Mr G and his representatives made some additional submissions. In particular, they had
concerns about the potential award cap I had outlined in my provisional decision. Theyraised concerns as to how acceptance of any final decision might affect Mr Gs ability to
bring a new complaint to our service, if AGS were to terminate the claim once it had paid the
maximum award limit I could make. They consider that our approach on this matter is wrong
and referred to case law which they felt supported their position.
Following ongoing correspondence with our Investigator, who referred to other case law
which was relevant to our award limits, Mr G let us know that hed instructed his
representative not to continue to contest this point. He stated that he didnt think it would be 
productive to prolong our complaints process, by arguing over a point which he and our
service were unlikely to agree on. He wished to reserve all rights in this regard.
Mr G said he strongly believed that he was entitled to consequential loss and legal cost
awards and struggled with my assertion that he couldve described his complaint and
provided evidence over the phone. But he said he saw little value in reiterating these points
and that his priority was to progress this matter to decision. Again, he reserved his rights in
this regard.
Mr G asked me to address two specific issues. First, he believed that AGS had presented a
false premise for turning down his claim. It had initially declined the claim because it said
there was no evidence of a material deterioration in Mr Gs vision between 2017 and 2019.
But Mr G said that AGS had been aware of medical records which showed the worsening of
his condition. And he said he couldnt see any evidence that AGS had provided a reasonable
explanation for this. He felt it spoke to the issue of whether his complaint had been handled
fairly and reasonably. He didnt accept that this had been benign negligence on AGS part.
He also asked me to specifically address AGS changing grounds for the decline of his claim
throughout the claims and complaint process.
My second provisional decision
I issued a second provisional decision on 11 November 2022. In that decision, I explained 
why I was still intending to uphold Mr Gs complaint. I said:
Im grateful for the detailed submissions Mr G and his representatives have provided to us in
response to my provisional decision. Whilst I have summarised the contents of those
submissions, Ive carefully considered these representations.
AGS hasnt provided any substantive evidence which indicates that it disputed my first
provisional findings, nor that it had any specific concerns. But in the interests of clarity, I will
now briefly expand on the reasons I gave for finding that AGS had acted unfairly and
unreasonably when it turned down Mr Gs claim.
It remains the case that the key issues for me to determine here are first whether AGS has
correctly assessed the claim against Mr Gs actual, insured job role. And secondly, whether
it has fairly and reasonably assessed the claim in line with the policy terms.
Ive set out above the definition of incapacity which was set out in Mr Gs policy schedule.
For completeness, Ive restated this definition, together with definition of incapacity which is
set out in the contract itself:
The contract says that incapacity:
means the Definition of Incapacity specified in the Policy Schedule in respect of the
Members or any group of Members. This is the test against which the validity of any claim
will be measured.Mr Gs policy schedules provides the following definition of incapacity:
As a result of illness or injury, the Member is incapable of performing the Material and
Substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not carrying out any other Work
or occupation.
Page 31 of the contract sets out a further definition of incapacity. This says
incapacity/incapacitated means:
means, in the opinion of Generali, Incapacity or Incapacitated in accordance with the
Definition of Incapacity specified in the Policy Schedule.
AGS has defined what it means by the material and substantial duties of an insured
persons role as follows:
means duties that are normally required for the performance of a Members occupation and
cannot reasonably be omitted or modified by their Employer.
The contractual definition of incapacity provides AGS with some discretion. But AGS has an
implied duty to exercise that discretion in good faith and not capriciously or arbitrarily. And it
must act rationally.
Its clear that the parties main point of dispute is what role AGS was insuring. Mr G stated in
the claim form Ive referenced above that his role was as a Compliance Sales Director. He
set out the duties he was responsible for within the claim form and these were broadly
mirrored by the Compliance Sales Director job description AGS was sent by Mr G and his
employer and which Ive looked at closely.
For clarity, these duties do appear to have been highly eye-sight intensive. The evidence
from Mr Gs employer shows that following assessment, it attempted to make practical and
reasonable adjustments to allow Mr G to carry out his role. And that it decided to adjust
Mr Gs role as a Compliance Sales Director to include a Global Ambassadorial role. Mr Gs
employers have provided compelling evidence, which Ive quoted directly above, which
shows that Mr Gs main role continued to be that of a Compliance Sales Director. Ill repeat
the quote I set out in my (first) provisional decision, which clearly stated that:
The characterisation of Mr Gs role as having been largely or entirely transformed to a
training and education role, requiring very little in the way of eyesight-intensive duties is
plainly false
When I referred tocompliance manager duties and said that these were exhausting his
available capacity, I was referring to compliance-related duties performed by Mr G in his role
as compliance director, a role which I have referred to throughout and made clear was his
job title
Further the ambassadorial duties constituted a very small component of Mr Gs duties
(around 15%) which were secondary to those associated with his core revenue function as
director of compliance.
In my view, the evidence from Mr G and his employer was clear and detailed enough to
highlight to AGS that his role was that of a Compliance Sales Director, with an expanded
adjustment to include the Global Ambassador function. I think the evidence was so
compelling that AGS ought to have accepted from the outset that Mr Gs insured and main
role remained as a Compliance Sales Director. And that accordingly, it ought reasonably to
have considered whether Mr G was prevented from carrying out the material and substantialduties of a Compliance Sales Director, with a small focus on the secondary ambassadorial
duties. In treating Mr Gs insured role as the Global Ambassador role, I dont think AGS
acted fairly or reasonably and I dont find it placed appropriate weight on the relevant
evidence to determine the role Mr G was carrying out.
So Ive next turned to consider whether Mr G has provided enough evidence to show hes
incapable of carrying out the material and substantial duties of his role as a Compliance
Director, with an ancillary function as a Global Ambassador.
For ease of reading, Ive again referred to the duties Mr Gs employer referred to in the claim
form and those which were detailed in Mr Gs job description. These include:
The Director of Compliancewith the primary responsibilities of managing Compliance
Managers, targeting, forecasting, deal construction, and negotiation. In addition, as Global
Compliance Ambassador - Education; Targeting; Program Creation; Evangelism and
Training. This is a senior and high level role. The role is fast paced, with high volume of
paperwork and high intensity.
For the sake of brevity, I wont set out each specific job role Mr G was required to carry out.
But I note that his duties included: reviewing large analytical spreadsheets; calculating
pricing; reading and responding to data; reviewing and QA of audit data; internal
management and forecasting.
As I explained in my first provisional decision, Mr Gs treating consultant ophthalmic
specialist clearly stated that hed reviewed Mr Gs job description for his role in compliance
sales. It seems, on balance, most likely that the consultant reviewed the job description
which has been made available to me. I find this evidence from the consultant who has been
most close to Mr Gs care and with the best understanding of his visual deterioration and
capacity, to be highly persuasive evidence to show that Mr G was incapable of carrying out
the material and substantial duties of his insured role.
Ive carefully considered the main duties Ive referred to above. It seems to me that each of
these duties required a high-level of screen-time and were likely to require a high degree of
accuracy. Given the consultants clear evidence on the deterioration in Mr Gs vision, I find
its most likely that Mr Gs condition did mean he was incapable of carrying out the material
and substantial duties of his role  including the additional global ambassador function which
had been created for him. I note that his employer had tried to make adjustments for Mr Gs
condition to enable him to continue to work, but Im satisfied that the medical evidence points
to Mr G meeting the policy definition of incapacity.
For clarity, Id also add that I remain persuaded by the employers evidence that Mr G
wouldnt have been in a position to reduce his hours to focus on the ambassador role, or that
that particular facet of his overall job package was the priority. Its clearly stated that Mr Gs
time was best spent on the Compliance Directors role. It seems there was little scope for 
him to accordingly reduce his screen-time hours. And as Ive reiterated, I find Mr G was
incapable of performing the Compliance Sales Directors role.
So it remains the case that I still dont find that AGS acted fairly or reasonably when it turned
down Mr Gs claim. As such, I remain persuaded that the fair outcome is for AGS to accept,
backdate and pay Mr Gs claim from the date his deferred period ended and pay interest on
the backdated payments at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date each payment was
due, until the date of settlement.
In August 2022, AGS provided a settlement breakdown, showing the backdated claim
payments, together with the interest which would have accrued on them at that point. Forcompleteness, AGS told us that the backdated benefit due from August 2020 to August 2022
would be £181,294.31. The interest payable at that point would be £14,909.95.
As I explained in my provisional decision, where an award may exceed our maximum limit,
which in this case is £355,000, I may recommend the business pays the balance. But this 
recommendation is not part of my determination or award, so AGS doesnt have to accept
my recommendation.
Its clear that Mr G and his representatives have concerns as to how the maximum award
limit may affect Mr Gs position in the future. In my first provisional decision, I set out some
practical considerations which Mr G might wish to think about before accepting my final
decision. While I acknowledge Mr Gs concerns, its not possible for our service to determine
whether it would have jurisdiction to consider any future complaints which might be brought
by Mr G, as it would depend on the nature and scope of that particular complaint. It remains
the case that Mr G may wish to take further legal advice when deciding whether or not to
accept my decision.
Legal costs and consequential losses
As I set out in my provisional decision, we are a free and accessible service. This means
that Mr G didnt need legal representation to bring his complaint to us. Whilst I appreciate he
may not have been able to submit all of his evidence in exactly the same format without
engaging a solicitor, we are able to make adjustments for our customers needs. But Mr G
had already engaged his solicitor before referring the complaint to us. He told us he was
sight-impaired, that hed prefer phone contact and to correspond with his solicitor. It remains
the case though that Mr G has been able to communicate with us independently of his
solicitor. Id still have been able to review all of the material evidence Ive relied on which
was also provided to me as part of AGS complaint submission. And Id still have reached
the same decision based on the same evidence if Mr G had brought the complaint to us
without representation. So I still find, on the specific facts of this complaint, that Mr G
couldve brought his complaint to us without the need for a solicitor. Therefore, I dont plan to
award his legal fees.
Turning to Mr Gs consequential losses, as I explained, the interest award of 8% simple
which I intend to make on Mr Gs backdated claims payments is, in part, designed to
compensate consumers for their lost access to money and to reflect some consequential
losses. As I set out above, by my calculation, I considered that Mr Gs interest award
wouldve exceeded the early repayment charge he incurred. The calculation AGS has since
provided to us shows that the interest payment of £14,909.95 more than compensates Mr G
for his mortgage charge of £8939.02. And Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Mr G
incurred any further consequential losses which were either directly attributable to AGS
decline of his claim or which couldve been reasonably foreseen to have flowed from it. This
means Im not making an award for Mr Gs consequential losses.
AGS handling of the claim
Its very clear that AGS didnt handle this claim fairly or reasonably. As Mr G says, AGS
provided multiple rationales for turning down the claim and its grounds for declinature did
evolve throughout the claims process. I explained in my provisional decision that I thought
AGS had had enough information from the outset to accept Mr Gs claim. And I was
persuaded that the evidence demonstrated that Mr G clearly met the policy definition of
incapacity. And so it follows that I do think there were clear failings in its handling of the
claim, and I dont think it met its regulatory obligation to handle claims fairly.
On that basis and recognising the impact the decline of the claim had likely had on Mr G,I proposed to award £500 for his distress and inconvenience. I remain satisfied that this
award is fair and proportionate and takes into account the errors AGS made when it
assessed Mr Gs claim and the evidence he provided. Neither party has made any further
submissions on this point and so my award here is unchanged. The claims process has
been made needlessly difficult for Mr G by AGS and I dont doubt the impact this had on him.
As Ive explained, the available evidence shows that Mr G suffered depression and anxiety
and his doctor told us that this was contributed to by the handling of this claim.
Overall, Ive decided that AGS acted unfairly when it turned down Mr Gs claim.
Again, I asked both parties to send me any additional evidence or information they wanted 
me to consider.
Mr Gs further response
Mr G pointed out that he had been expecting to receive a final decision, rather than a second 
provisional decision. He stated that in response to my first provisional decision, hed 
specifically asked me to comment on two points. First, AGS ever-changing rationale for 
turning down the claim, which he noted I had considered in my second provisional decision. 
And second, that AGS decision letter had falsely claimed that there was no medical 
evidence to show his vision had deteriorated between 2017 and 2019, despite clear 
evidence to the contrary. He said that further delays in issuing a final decision would be very 
painful for him.
AGS response
AGS provided the following email response:
Please take this email as confirmation that Generali accept the Ombudsmans findings and 
provisional decision and will continue to pay the claim until such time that the FOS maximum 
award limit has been reached. After this point we do not accept any further liability of the 
claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint for the same reasons set out above 
and in both of my provisional decisions. As AGS has accepted my provisional findings, I see 
no reason to explore my reasoning again in full depth. 
However, its clear that Mr G feels that I failed to address one of his complaint points  
namely that AGS wrongly stated that there was little evidence to show his vision had 
deteriorated between 2017 and 2019. In my first provisional decision, I explained that I 
considered that the medical evidence from Mr Gs treating specialist, dated November 2020, 
clearly showed that Mr Gs vision had deteriorated during the relevant period. I was and 
remain satisfied that the medical evidence points to a clear and significant deterioration in Mr 
Gs vision during that timeframe. And so this failure by AGS to fully assess the available and 
persuasive medical evidence from Mr Gs treating specialist was something I took into 
account when assessing AGS overall handling of the claim and was factored into the 
compensation I proposed to award for the distress and inconvenience I concluded Mr G had 
been caused by AGS handling of the claim. Id add though that were not the regulator and 
so we have no power to fine or punish the financial businesses we cover  even where we 
identify that errors have clearly and unnecessarily been made. AGS has now confirmed it will pay Mr Gs claim up to our maximum award limit of £355,000, 
at which point, it says it accepts no further liability for the claim. As I set out above, where an 
award may exceed our award limits, we may recommend that a business pay the balance. 
But this recommendation is not binding on either party and so a business may decide not to 
accept such a recommendation.
As AGS has since clarified its position in this regard, its open to Mr G to now decide whether 
or not to accept this final decision. Ive previously explained that Mr G may wish to seek legal 
advice before deciding whether or not to do so. Its still the case that its not possible for our 
service to determine now whether it would have jurisdiction to consider any future complaints 
which might be brought by Mr G, as it would depend on the nature and scope of that 
particular complaint. But Id reiterate that its unlikely that if Mr G accepts this final decision, 
that he could go to court to ask for the balance to be paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and my provisional decisions, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Gs complaint.
I direct Assicurazioni Generali SpA to:
Accept, backdate and pay Mr Gs claim from the date his deferred period ended;
Pay interest on the backdated payments at an annual rate of 8% simple from the 
date each payment was due, until the date of settlement;
Pay Mr G £500 compensation.
If the amount produced by the calculation of the award Ive outlined above is more than 
£355,000, I recommend that AGS pays Mr G the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. AGS doesnt have to do what 
I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr G can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Mr G may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
my decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman