DRN-2982856
The complaint
Miss A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit card 
account that was unaffordable and also increased the credit limit on it.
What happened
Miss A says she opened the Barclays credit card account, but it ought to have been clear 
that the lending was unaffordable. She says the credit limit was too high and shouldnt have 
been increased. Miss A says the lending affected her credit score and her ability to obtain a 
mortgage. She says Barclays told her the lending was irresponsible and says the 
compensation it offered isnt enough. Miss A says she borrowed money to repay her debt 
and says her credit score at the time of lending was poor.
Barclays says it sent Miss A a generic letter telling her that her account credit limit may have 
been set too high and offered her £75 compensation. It says it carried out appropriate 
checks on the application in February 2014 and the later credit limit increase in August 2014. 
Barclays says the credit limit was £800 which increased to £1,200 and says Miss A made all 
required payments before paying off the balance in early 2016. It says there wasnt a default 
recorded or any signs of financial difficulties and that Miss A was in employment with limited 
debts.
Miss A brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it in part. The investigator 
thought the original lending decision was appropriately checked and affordable. But the 
increase wasnt affordable. The investigator thought Barclays ought to have considered that 
Miss A only made minimum payments before the increase and was over the credit limit in 
July 2014. The investigator thought the £75 compensation fair and reasonable but 
recommended the interest be refunded from the date of the credit limit increase.
Miss A accepts that view, but Barclays says Miss A managed her account well until it was 
closed and didnt make it aware of any financial difficulties.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I said that that Barclays didnt make a 
mistake by allowing the credit card account to be opened or by approving the credit limit 
increase.
I explained that lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on any credit or lending application. Those checks will of course vary depending on 
the type and amount of the credit or lending. This was an application for a credit facility and 
so I said I would not have expected Barclays checks to have been as detailed as for 
example for a mortgage.
I looked carefully at Barclays records and could see that it carried out checks on Miss As 
application and considered her income and that she was in employment. I saw that it also 
considered her existing debts which I thought were relatively low and looked at her general 
credit history which didnt show any adverse information. So, I was satisfied that Barclays did 
carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss As application and that the lending 
decision wasnt irresponsible but affordable. I was also satisfied that Barclays approved what 
I thought was a relatively modest credit limit of £800.
In August 2014 Barclays increased the credit limit by £400 which Miss A didnt object to or 
question. I said I was satisfied Barclays was entitled to consider what it already knew about 
Miss A from the original application and how she managed her account in the previous 
months. I appreciated what the investigator said that only minimum amount payments were 
made and that in July 2014 Miss A exceeded her credit limit. I thought it likely at that stage 
Barclays had already decided to offer the increase and that in any event Miss A made an 
additional payment of £100 for the July 2014 statement. So, I thought on balance further 
checks were carried out and that the lending was affordable. I didnt think the increase was 
by a significant amount and gave Miss A what I thought was still a relatively modest credit 
limit of £1,200.
I looked at Miss As account management after the credit limit increase and thought she 
managed her account appropriately by making all required payments and that her credit 
balance was often significantly less than the credit limit. I said that provides additional 
evidence that the credit limit increase was affordable.
I could see that Miss A paid off the full balance and closed her account in early 2016. I didnt 
think there was any record that Miss A ever told Barclays about financial difficulties and I had 
not seen any evidence from, for example, her credit file about such difficulties. So, I didnt 
think it clear why Miss A says Barclays actions affected her credit file or her ability to obtain 
a mortgage when it doesnt appear Barclays reported any adverse information about her 
account to the Credit Reference Agencies. I said I would of course consider Miss As credit 
file and bank account statements if she provides them to us as well as evidence about the 
borrowing, she says she used to repay the debt.
Barclays sent a number of customers letters about their credit limits and that they may have 
been set too high. Its offered £75 compensation for any inconvenience caused to Miss A. I 
was satisfied that offer was fair and reasonable and as I didnt think Barclays had acted 
unfairly here or made a mistake then I said it would be unfair to order it to increase that 
amount.
Overall my provisional view was that the credit facility was affordable, and the lending wasnt 
irresponsible. I thought Miss As account management provided additional evidence for that.
Barclays accepts my provisional decision but Miss A doesnt. She says the account wasnt 
managed appropriately and the lending was irresponsible.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons. Miss A hasnt provided her credit file or account 
statements and I still cant see why she says Barclays actions have affected her credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman