DRN-2620058
The complaint
 Miss G complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) refused to let 
her reject a faulty car.
What happened
Our investigator has set out the background in some detail in her views which I wont repeat, 
but I will give a brief summary.
In January 2019 Miss G acquired a second-hand car costing £20,617 funded by a hire 
purchase agreement. It was some three years old and had covered 43,260 miles. Shortly 
after taking delivery of the car she noticed the boot had opened. The car was inspected by 
the dealer and the fault was apparently resolved. However, the boot kept opening 
unexpectedly and the car was taken back to the dealer on numerous occasions. The keys 
were replaced and still the fault occurred.
Miss G complained to MBFS and it said the dealer had not been able to identify a fault which 
had been present at the point of sale. It offered her £150 as a gesture of goodwill. Miss G 
brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators 
who recommended it be upheld. She noted the times the car had been with the dealer and 
the lack of an effective repair. It seems that the function was disabled. 
Our investigator was satisfied the fault occurred within the first six months of Miss G having 
the car and that it remained unresolved. It was clear that the issue was intermittent and 
made using the car challenging given the boot could open at any time and put it at risk of 
being stolen or the contents being taken. She concluded that Miss G should be allowed to 
reject the car.  
MBFS didnt agree and asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have reached the same conclusion as that of our adjudicator. I will explain why.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
MBFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car wasnt new but it is reasonable to expect it to be of satisfactory quality and for the 
boot not to open unexpectedly and randomly. Such an issue limits the use Miss G could 
make of the car due to the risk of it being or its contents. In its final response letter MBFS 
noted that the car had been seen by the dealer on only three occasions and no fault had 
been found. It also said the matter had not been raised within the first six months. I find this 
surprising, but I appreciate it has relied on information provided by the dealer. Miss G has 
given this service and MBFS, a clear, comprehensive and credible history of her experience 
of the car and the times she has encountered the problem. This is supported by various 
email exchanges with the dealer.
I am satisfied the fault occurred in the first six months and that the dealer was able to 
replicate it. I also believe the car was taken to the dealer on more occasions that it has said. 
The fact the dealers records are incomplete does not detract from the testimony of Miss G 
and the supporting emails. The car has a fault which limits its use and the dealer has been 
unable to fix it. I do not consider disabling the function to be a satisfactory repair. As such I 
consider the only reasonable option is to allow Miss G to reject the car. 
Putting things right
 Miss G should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to Miss G;
refund Miss Gs deposit;
refund 10% of the monthly payments under the agreement, to reflect the impaired 
use of the car;
pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement;
pay a further amount of £200 for any trouble and upset thats been caused due to the 
faulty goods;remove any adverse information from Miss Gs credit file in relation to the agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman