DRN-3572286
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies in 1998 and 2001.
What happened
Mr D took out the first policy in 1998 at the same time as arranging his mortgage. He was 
then sold a second PPI policy in 2001 when taking out a further advance.
The policies covered Mr D for accident, sickness and unemployment. Had Mr D made a 
successful claim, the policy would have paid Mr Ds normal mortgage payment each month 
for up to 12 months per claim. The policy would also pay an additional cash payment to Mr D 
of £3 per month for every £1,000 of the opening mortgage balance. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as it is here), inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision based on the evidence I have seen and on what I consider is most likely to have 
happened.
Mr D says he was given the impression that he had to take out the PPI for the borrowing to 
be agreed and it wasnt made clear that he had a choice about buying it.
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide all the documentation from the time of the sales. For 
example, it hasnt provided copies of the mortgage application forms. However, Ive seen a 
number of mortgage application forms from this lender from around these dates, where that 
information has been provided as part of other complaint submissions.
The mortgage application form has a separate section for insurance which basically gives 
yes and no options to either select or decline PPI. If an applicant wishes to buy PPI they 
tick the yes option and confirm that they have completed a PPI proposal form. On balance, 
Im satisfied that this is the type of mortgage application form that Mr D would have filled in. 
Lloyds has provided PPI proposal forms for both sales, so I consider it most likely that Mr D 
ticked yes on the associated mortgage application forms.
I have no doubt that Mr D has provided his genuine recollection of events. However, given 
how long ago the sales were, it wouldnt be surprising if his memory has faded somewhat. 
From what we know of Lloyds sales process at the time, the PPI was usually presented as 
optional and I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that something 
different happened in this case.
On balance, Im unable to conclude that Mr D wasnt given a choice about taking out the 
policies. It seems to me that he probably decided to buy them, knowing that he didnt have 
to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Lloyds advised Mr D to buy the PPI. Therefore, in recommending the policies to him, it 
needed to ensure that the PPI met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ds circumstances 
at the time, the PPI was suitable for him.
Mr D would have received sick pay from his employer of six months full pay, followed by six 
months half pay. However, the policies would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and 
potentially for longer than Mr D would have received full pay for. Mr D says he had an 
investment product that he could have cashed in. But having the PPI could have avoided the 
need for this and potentially saved Mr D costly exit fees. Mr D says he already had critical 
illness cover. But such policies cover a different set of risks and so the PPI was not 
replicating any existing cover. 
Mr D has said that he was financially stretched and that paying the PPI premiums left him 
with very little disposable income. Ive thought very carefully about this point but, on balance, 
Im not persuaded that the cost of the policies made them an unsuitable recommendation. 
Overall, I consider that Mr D had a need for the cover and could have benefitted from it at 
what would have been a difficult time. Therefore Im satisfied that it was reasonable of 
Lloyds to recommend the policies to him.
Lloyds also needed to provide Mr D with sufficient information for him to make an informed 
decision about whether or not the policy was right for him. I am satisfied it is more likely than 
not that Mr D was given a broad description of what the policy was intended to cover (that it 
would protect his mortgage repayments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness 
or unemployment) and of the approximate cost. Because I think it is unlikely that Mr D would 
have taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy was for and how much the 
premium might be.
Whilst Mr D might not have been told the exact cost of the policy at the time that he decided 
to buy it, Im not persuaded that he would have found the cost unacceptable if he had been 
told at the time. For the first sale, there is evidence that he was told the cost before the 
policy started (in a letter dated 1 June 1998, when the first premium was taken on 14 June 
1998). The letter explained that Mr D could cancel the policy if he wanted to, however, he 
paid for the policy for a number of years. If the costs were significantly at odds with Mr Ds 
expectations at the point of sale, it is possible that he might have raised that with Lloyds at 
the time or reconsidered his decision.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt provide as much information about the policies as it should 
have done, particularly about the things that werent covered. But Mr D wasnt affected by 
any of those things. For example, he did not have any pre-existing medical conditions that 
would have been excluded from cover. As I consider that Mr D had an interest in the PPI and 
decided to buy it, I doubt that further information would have caused him to change his mind. 
So he is no worse off as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong, so there is 
nothing that Lloyds needs to do to put things right. It follows that I do not uphold the 
complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman