DRN-3715568
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain because Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc (EIO) hasnt paid a 
claim under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to EIO include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B held an annual travel insurance policy, underwritten by EIO, as an addition to 
their buildings and contents insurance policy. The policy renewed in October 2020. 
Mr and Mrs B and their family went on holiday in July 2021. Shortly afterwards, they received 
notification from the NHS that, as close contacts of someone who had tested positive for 
Covid-19, they should self-isolate. Mr and Mrs B would have been unable to self-isolate on 
holiday, so they therefore cut their trip short. Over the following days, Mr and Mrs Bs 
children all tested positive for Covid-19. 
Mr and Mrs B made a claim under their policy with EIO for their unused costs. EIO 
incorrectly said that Mr and Mrs Bs claim wasnt covered because of an exclusion which 
didnt apply to their travel insurance policy. EIO subsequently said the claim wasnt covered 
because Mr and Mrs Bs travel insurance policy excluded claims arising from pandemics. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs B complained to EIO, saying that the wording of their travel insurance 
policy wasnt clear and/or transparent. When EIO didnt respond to Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint, they brought the matter to the attention of our service. 
Following contact from our service, EIO sent Mr and Mrs B a final response addressing their 
complaint. EIO said the pandemic exclusion applied to Section 2 of Mr and Mrs Bs travel 
insurance policy (which was the section under which they were seeking to claim), and that 
the documentation provided to them when the policy renewed set out that a pandemic 
exclusion would apply. However, EIO acknowledged it had delayed in responding to Mr and 
Mrs Bs claim and failed to respond to their complaint, so it offered them £150 compensation 
for the inconvenience caused. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but didnt uphold the complaint. Mr 
and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint was referred to me. I 
made my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Bs complaint earlier this month. In it, I said:
When making a decision about this complaint, Im only considering the activities which EIO 
is responsible for. These are the declinature of Mr and Mrs Bs claim and the content of their 
policy documentation. EIO is a separate and distinct financial business to the independent 
broker through which the policy renewed. The broker is responsible for the renewal of the 
policy and the provision of the policy documentation to Mr and Mrs B. I cant comment on 
anything which the broker is responsible for within this decision. This includes any offer 
made by the broker to refund Mr and Mrs Bs travel insurance premium. Mr and Mrs B 
havent indicated that theyre unhappy with the brokers actions but, if they are, theyd need 
to complain directly to the broker about these in the first instance. 
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers should 
handle claims promptly and fairly, shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim and should provide 
appropriate information to a policyholder on the progress of a claim. Ive taken these rules 
into account when making my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Bs claim. 
Mr and Mrs Bs claim 
Mr and Mrs B cut short their trip because they were required to quarantine. Mr and Mrs B 
have provided us with evidence of this, and I have no doubt that they had little choice in the 
circumstances but to take the action that they did. 
The section of their travel insurance policy entitled Medical and other expenses doesnt 
apply to the circumstances of their claim. This section of the policy only applies where a 
policyholder requires emergency medical treatment abroad and that isnt what happened 
here. 
But a policyholder being compulsorily quarantined is a listed, insured event for which cover 
is provided in certain circumstances if a trip is cut short under the section of the travel 
insurance policy entitled Cancellation or curtailment. So, I think this is the correct section of 
the policy under which Mr and Mrs Bs claim should be considered. 
However, the general exclusions of Mr and Mrs Bs travel insurance policy say that EIO: 
will not pay for any claim directly or indirectly caused by, contributed to or arising 
from any new or ongoing pandemic or epidemic of disease whether arising pre or 
post date of issue. This exclusion does not apply to Section 1  Medical & Other 
Expenses where you were already on a journey. 
Im satisfied that this exclusion applies to Mr and Mrs Bs claim for Cancellation or 
curtailment and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs B have correctly pointed out that the Medical and other expenses section of 
their travel insurance policy isnt labelled as Section 1, and the Cancellation or curtailment 
section isnt labelled as Section 2. EIO has said this is because of an IT issue. So, I think 
its clear that EIO has made a mistake in the content of the policy terms and conditions in 
this regard. But it doesnt automatically follow that it would be fair and reasonable for EIO to 
accept Mr and Mrs Bs claim. 
Ive considered the terms and conditions of the travel insurance policy as a whole, and I 
dont think its reasonable to interpret Medical and other expenses and Cancellation or 
curtailment as one section of cover in the absence of any numbered labels. These sections 
are laid out as separate headings in bold print, with greyed out boxes displayed next to each 
heading. The subject matter and cover outlined under each heading is different. The 
remaining sections of the travel insurance policy are laid out in a similar way but Sections 3 
(Travel delay) to Sections 11 (Winter sports) are correctly labelled with the relevant 
numbers. Even without the numbered labels for Sections 1 and 2, I think the different 
sections of the travel insurance policy and the intention of the pandemic exclusion in 
excluding cover for all claims other than for Medical and other expenses are clear. I dont 
think any inconsistency in the use of the word and and an ampersand changes this. 
Furthermore, Mr and Mrs Bs renewal documents clearly set out that a pandemic exclusion 
applies to their travel insurance policy. The document entitled How has your policy 
changed? under the heading Travel says that an exclusion for pandemics has been added to the policy, other than in relation to claims for medical expenses. And, the Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID) for Mr and Mrs Bs travel insurance policy says: 
What is not insured? 
 
X All claims relating to any new or ongoing pandemic or epidemic of disease which 
arise [sic] before or after you took out your policy other than claims for medical 
expenses if you are already on a journey 
Industry rules say an IPID should set out an at a glance summary of cover for customers, 
including a summary of excluded risks. Im satisfied that the IPID relating to Mr and Mrs Bs 
travel insurance policy does this. 
This means I dont think that Mr and Mrs Bs claim is covered under their travel insurance 
policy and I dont think EIOs application of the pandemic policy exclusion to their claim is 
unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances.
EIOs handling of Mr and Mrs Bs claim and complaint 
EIO didnt handle this claim as Id have expected it to. It initially declined the claim based on 
an incorrect exclusion which didnt apply to Mr and Mrs Bs travel insurance policy, and there 
were delays both in responding to Mr and Mrs Bs email of 7 October 2021 pointing this out 
and in raising a complaint when this was requested by Mr and Mrs B. 
EIO has acknowledged this and has offered to pay Mr and Mrs B £150 compensation. Im 
satisfied this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances for the impact of EIOs actions on 
Mr and Mrs B. 
Overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, I dont currently intend to direct EIO to 
do anything further.
Mr and Mrs B responded to my provisional decision with a number of further comments. EIO 
didnt reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Bs additional comments, but I wont be changing my 
provisional decision. Overall, Im satisfied that the content of both the policy terms and 
conditions and the IPID are clear. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc has already made an offer to pay £150 compensation to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. Ecclesiastical 
Insurance Office Plc should pay Mr and Mrs B £150 if it hasnt already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman