DRN-3860981
The complaint
Mr C complains that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon (Aegon) has caused a loss of 
over £20,000 as a result of the delays and errors it caused in handling a transfer of his 
pension to another provider. Mr C says hes lost out because of Aegons incompetence and 
wants compensation.
What happened
The facts and circumstances leading up to this complaint are known by both parties, so I 
havent set everything out here. In summary the key points are as follows:
On 3 September 2021 Mr Cs financial adviser requested some information from Aegon 
about Mr Cs pension plan he held with them in connection with advice they were giving 
Mr C about transferring his pension to a drawdown pension with another provider.
On 14 September 2021 Aegon replied to the request. In answer to the question about 
access to drawdown, Aegon said:
This plan does not facilitate flexi-access drawdown. The member can transfer their benefits 
to a flexi-access drawdown via our Aegon Retirement Choices (ARC) platform. You will need 
to obtain an online quote directly through ARC and you must be registered with our platform 
or you wont be able to complete the online application process. It may be possible for the 
member to transfer on a non-advised basis however they would need to call our Contact 
team for more details.
On the same day Aegon provided Mr C with an illustration, which showed that his pension 
had a value of around £159,000 giving Mr C access to a tax-free lump sum of just over 
£70,000.
On 17 November 2021, Mr Cs adviser contacted Aegon and asked it if it could pay the 
protected tax-free cash to Mr C and then transfer the residual to his pension with the other 
provider. Aegon said this was possible.
In December 2021 Mr Cs adviser sent Aegon the paperwork they thought was needed to 
carry out the transfer of Mr Cs pension.
In January 2022 Aegon told Mr Cs adviser firm that it couldnt carry out the transfer as 
requested. It said it had told the adviser this previously and it set out what was required. It 
said Mr Cs pension would first have to transfer to its platform service ARC whereupon as 
part of the transfer it would pay Mr Cs tax-free cash. 
It said once this was done, a subsequent transfer from the platform to Mr Cs drawdown 
pension provider could be carried out on a drawdown-to-drawdown basis.
Because Mr Cs financial adviser was a tied adviser and not an independent financial 
adviser, they were unable to register with ARC and so couldnt fulfil Aegons requirements 
and carry things out.
In February 2022, Mr Cs adviser complained to Aegon that they werent aware that a 
transfer couldnt be carried out without going into a drawdown product with Aegon first. 
Around the same time Mr C instructed a different adviser to carry out the transfer of his 
pension.
In April 2022 Aegon received the correct transfer paperwork and in May 2022 Mr C received 
his tax-free cash of around £65,200 with the residual amount of around £71,400 transferred 
to ARC. Later that month Aegon paid Mr Cs original adviser compensation in relation to her 
complaint and it also paid Mr C £200.
Mr C then raised his complaint to Aegon via our service. In doing so he gave his authority for 
his financial adviser, who first tried to perform the pension transfer, to act as his 
representative. For ease I will mainly refer to them as Mr Cs representative rather than his 
adviser hereon in. Because Aegon didnt respond to the complaint within the required 
timeframe, the matter was passed to one of our investigators to consider things.
In submitting its business file for our consideration, Aegon set out the timeline of events and 
provided its opinion on the matter. In summary, it explained that to provide a flex-access 
drawdown option to its customers it established a separate business  a digital platform - to 
which they could transfer their benefits to. It said this is an external transfer and is adviser 
based  it only accepts business through financial advisers. It said that while it offers a non-
advice service for customers who dont want to use an adviser, in Mr Cs case he had to use 
a financial adviser because he had guarantees on his plan in the form of protected tax-free 
cash.
It acknowledged that it may have given incorrect information during the phone call with 
Mr Cs adviser in November 2021  but it said that at this point it wasnt aware who would be 
providing the advice or that Mr Cs adviser was a tied adviser. It said in any event it provided 
information about what was required to transfer Mr Cs pension to another provider in its 
email of September 2021. It said Mr Cs adviser at no stage queried or referred to this 
previous information.
It said it can only take responsibility for its actions and not those of other parties. It said it 
couldnt carry out the transfer based on the paperwork it received in December / January 
2021 because at this point Mr Cs pension funds hadnt been crystalised, which needed to 
happen first. It said it believed this ought to have been known by the advisers firm. It said it 
set out what was required again in its email of 24 January 2022.
Finally it said that once it received the correct paperwork from Mr Cs new financial adviser, it 
believed it processed things within reasonable timescales. As such it said it doesnt believe it 
has caused Mr C any financial loss or material distress or inconvenience  other than it has 
already paid.
Our investigator looked at everything and they didnt uphold the complaint. In summary they 
explained that because of how Aegon had structured its flexi-drawdown offering, Mr C had to 
use an independent financial adviser to fulfil his desire to move his pension with Aegon to his 
existing drawdown pension with the other provider. 
They said they were satisfied that once Mr C had employed the services of an independent 
financial adviser, there were no delays caused by Aegon in transferring his pension plan. 
And as far as when Mr Cs tied adviser was first involved in things, they said Aegons email 
of 14 September 2021 ought to have been enough for them to understand they couldnt 
carry out the transfer. They said that Aegon confirmed the transfer could go ahead in the 
phone call of 17 November 2021, but they said very limited information about the transfer was provided here and there was no discussion about Mr Cs adviser being a tied adviser. 
They said the call was about the practicalities of making sure the transfer could go ahead 
and that Mr C could get his tax-free cash. They said in any event they didnt think this 
changed what Mr Cs adviser had already been told in writing in the September 2021 email. 
They said for these reasons, they didnt think Aegon had caused an unreasonable delay to 
Mr Cs transfer, so there was nothing it needed to do to put things right.
Mr Cs representative disagreed. In summary they said they phoned Aegon to make sure 
they were clear on the situation as set out in its email of 14 September 2021. They said they 
asked in the call if a blink of an eye drawdown would be possible to which they said it was. 
They also referred to a passage written by Aegons complaint handler in its response to their 
complaint which said: 
When you called on 17 November, I noticed you explicitly asked if you can process the 
transfer for your client and set up the protected tax-free cash payment. The call handler 
subsequently said yes, but this was incorrect. At no point did we check if you were a tied 
agent and Im sorry for this error. 
They said that, had Aegon informed them correctly, Mr C wouldve proceeded with things 
earlier and not suffered the loss to his tax-free cash.
In a separate submission, and in addition to repeating the point they made about being told 
by Aegon that things could be done with a blink of an eye drawdown, they said they have 
always been a tied adviser and not having worked as an independent financial adviser they 
didnt understand the wording used in Aegons email of September 2021. They said this was 
the first time they had dealt with the type of contract Mr C held, which is why they phoned 
Aegon to clarify things.
Mr C also replied. In summary he repeated the point that his adviser was told by Aegon that 
they could get his pension transferred and the call is recorded. He said that, if Aegon had 
told his adviser they couldnt carry things out, he wouldve got another adviser earlier. He 
said Aegon is responsible for the wrong information it gave over five months resulting in him 
suffering a loss.
Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind, the complaint was passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I understand Mr C will be disappointed, Ive decided to not uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, and for the sake of clarity, while Mr Cs adviser made a complaint to Aegon about 
matters relating to this issue, I consider this to be an entirely separate matter  so I will not 
refer to it again here and I havent considered it or Aegons findings in my determination of 
this complaint.
Its clear that Mr Cs pension transfer from his plan with Aegon to his existing drawdown plan with another pension provider took longer than it ought to have done, and longer than Mr C 
had hoped for. The reason things took longer is because it transpired that Mr Cs original 
financial adviser couldnt carry out Aegons transfer requirements because of their tied 
adviser status and Mr C had to subsequently instruct and use an independent financial 
adviser to conclude matters. This is because to enable the transfer of Mr Cs pension to his 
existing drawdown plan with another provider, it first had to be transferred to a drawdown 
plan with Aegons digital platform offering ARC  Mr Cs plan didnt offer a flexi-drawdown 
facility. This was considered an external transfer due to it being a separate business from 
Aegon. Once this had taken place a drawdown-to-drawdown transfer could then be carried 
out.
So what I need to determine here is whether Aegon was in any way responsible for what 
went wrong and the delay in completing the transfer of Mr Cs pension. 
Having done so, Ive decided that Aegon is not responsible for the delay Mr C encountered.
On 3 September 2021 Mr Cs adviser requested information from Aegon about Mr Cs 
pension. On 14 September 2021, which in my view was a reasonable period of time, Aegon 
replied. And as part of the reply, and in response to the question about whether Mr Cs 
pension offered a flexi-drawdown facility, it said it didnt offer this facility and it set out what 
was required to achieve things as I detailed in the background section above. In my view I 
dont consider this information was wrong or misleading.
Mr Cs representative has said they didnt understand the wording used in Aegons email, 
which is why they called on 17 November 2021 to seek clarification. Both Mr C and his 
representative have placed great weight on this phone call being the point that Aegon   
made a mistake and why based on the information it provided, Mr Cs representative 
continued with the transfer process. Mr Cs representative says at this point they were told 
by Aegon they could get Mr Cs pension transferred and that it could be done on a blink of 
an eye drawdown basis. As I set out above, theyve also referred to a complaint handlers 
comments in dealing with their complaint in support of their argument.
But Im not persuaded by what Mr C and his representative say. Aegon has provided, and I 
have listened to, a call recording of the phone conversation in question of 17 November 
2021. At no point during this call did Aegon tell Mr Cs representative that they could get 
Mr Cs pension transferred. The call was, in my view, brief in which Mr Cs representative 
simply asked the call handler whether Aegon could pay Mr C the protected tax-free cash and 
then transfer the residual to his pension with the other provider. And the call handler said this 
was possible and they explained that the details for payment of the cash lump sum would 
need to be made clear in the transfer request.
Importantly, at no time during the phone call did Mr Cs representative refer to the email of 
14 September 2021 they say they didnt understand. They also did not disclose their status 
as a tied adviser to Aegon. So the question they asked of Aegon during the call did not have 
the context Mr C and his representative describe. In my view the call handlers answer was 
therefore not fundamentally wrong  it was ultimately possible for Mr C to be paid his tax-
free cash and the residual pension fund transferred. Aegons email of 14 September 2021 
set out how this could be achieved and Im not persuaded what was said in the phone call 
undermined this.
Mr Cs representative appears to suggest this was the phone call in which Aegon said it was 
possible that things could be done on a blink of an eye drawdown basis. My understanding 
of this term describes the situation where the tax-free cash could be paid by the pension 
plan provider with the balance of the fund being notionally designated to drawdown. But no 
drawdown plan is actually set up - instead an immediate drawdown to drawdown transfer takes place to another pension provider as chosen by the plan holder. 
But Mr Cs representative neither specifically asked this of Aegon during this phone call, nor 
did Aegon explicitly say this was possible. And Ive seen no other evidence that Aegon said 
this was possible or that it agreed to it, whether in a phone call or in writing, at any other 
time.
I understand Mr C feels Aegon ought to have told his representative that they couldnt get his 
pension transferred whereupon he wouldve instructed one that could. Because it didnt he 
says he wasted five months and says Aegon is at fault. But Im satisfied that Aegon was 
under no duty to do so and I dont think it was fair and reasonable for it to have done so. It is 
not the role of a pension administrator, like Aegon, to establish or tell an adviser what they 
can and cannot advise on. That is for the adviser to know. So I dont think Aegon acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here.
When Aegon received the transfer paperwork from Mr Cs adviser in December 2021, based 
on the evidence and the timeline presented, Im satisfied that there were no unreasonable 
delays in trying to get matters sorted. Aegon says it forwarded the paperwork to its digital 
platform in an attempt to get things set up and when Mr Cs adviser couldnt get registered 
on the digital platform because of their tied adviser status, it sent an email on 
24 January 2022 in which it reconfirmed that it was unable to process things and it provided 
further detail about the steps required to successfully carry things out.
Finally Ive considered things from when Aegon received the correct transfer paperwork from 
Mr Cs independent financial adviser. This was received on 12 April 2022 and Mr C received 
his tax-free cash payment on 5 May 2022. I can see that Mr C received a letter from Aegon 
dated 27 April 2022 telling him that it had paid him his tax-free cash. But I understand that 
due to a quality check failing things werent successfully completed until 5 May 2022. But 
taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that this materially inconvenienced Mr C 
such that it warrants any award.
Overall, I dont think that Aegon has done anything substantially wrong here  Im not 
persuaded the delays Mr C encountered in transferring his pension were due to any failings 
on the part of Aegon. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint or make any award in 
Mr Cs favour.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint, so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman