DRN-3175285
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service he received from J D Williams & Company Limited, trading 
as Jacamo, including that JD Williams didnt provide reasonable financial support to him 
during a time of poor health.
What happened
In late 2019, Mr C was unable to work because of poor health and was unable to meet the 
payments required on his JD Williams account. Mr C contacted JD Williams who agreed to 
place a hold on his account for 28 days. 
JD Williams also explained to Mr C that in order for his account to be placed on hold for a 
period of longer than 28 days, medical evidence would need to be supplied to them by Mr C 
so as to confirm the medical issues he was facing. However, Mr C explained that the NHS 
werent willing to provide the evidence that JD Williams was wanting, and so he was unable 
to provide this to them.
In January 2020, Mr C contacted JD Williams again as his situation hadnt changed, and JD 
Williams agreed to place his account on hold for another 28 days. A further 28-day hold was 
agreed by JD Williams for February, but it was confirmed to Mr C by JD Williams that no 
further holds would be agreed without the medical evidence they had previously asked for. 
Mr C wasnt happy about this, or that he had started to receive letters from JD Williams 
demanding repayment. So, he raised a complaint.
JD Williams looked at Mr Cs complaint, but they felt that they had offered reasonable 
financial support to Mr C, and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with JD Williams response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that JD Williams hadnt 
acted unfairly towards Mr C in how theyd managed his account or in the level of support that 
theyd provided to him, and so they also didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so its only natural to sympathise with Mr C here, and I can appreciate how the 
difficult personal circumstances he faced meant that matters such has his JD Williams 
account might not have been among his highest priorities at that time. 
In circumstances such as this, where a person cant work because of a medical diagnosis, it 
would be expected that JD Williams would have offered reasonable financial assistance to 
Mr C to help him navigate the difficult time he was experiencing.
I think that JD Williams have done that here, and I say this because they did place several 
28-day holds on Mr Cs account so that he wasnt chased for repayment on his account 
during the time in question.
Im aware that Mr C feels that JD Williams should have done more in this instance. But while 
I can appreciate Mr Cs position on this matter, it wouldnt be expected that JD Williams 
would have placed a continuing hold on Mr Cs account without being provided with some 
evidence by Mr C of the medical issues he was facing. And this is because, while I dont 
doubt the testimony of Mr C here, if JD Williams werent to request such medical evidence, 
then the risk exists for JD Williams that customers who dont have medical issues could 
obtain a continuing hold on their account by falsely stating that they did have such issues.
In therefore seems reasonable to me that JD Williams would request medical evidence from 
Mr C in order to continue applying holds on his account, and it follows from this that it also 
seems reasonable to me that JD Williams would resume collections activity on an account, 
including sending repayment demand letters, when such evidence wasnt provided. 
In regard to Mr Cs other complaint point surrounding the difficulties he had when trying to 
contact JD Williams, I feel its important to remember that Mr Cs contact attempts took place 
when the UK Government had implemented unprecedented social and business restrictions 
because of the Covid-19 pandemic that was emerging globally at that time. This meant that 
businesses such as JD Williams were having to react to severe changes in working 
conditions, often including significant staff shortages as well as having to quickly make and 
implement arrangements for available staff to work at home wherever possible.
As such, while I do feel that Mr C was inconvenienced by what took place in this instance, I 
also feel that there were mitigating circumstances which mean that a degree of 
inconvenience such as Mr C experienced here was unfortunately inevitable, and I dont feel 
that I can fairly or reasonably censure JD Williams for that inconvenience.
All of which means that I dont feel that I can reasonably conclude that JD Williams have 
acted unfairly towards Mr C here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing JD Williams to take any further action at this time.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr C was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.             
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman