DRN-1568200
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint concerns a whole of life policy they hold with Old Mutual Wealth 
Life Assurance Limited (OM).  
They are unhappy because they have been told that in future they will either need to 
increase their premium to maintain the sum assured, or accept a lower sum assured.
They have asked that the premium and sum assured be guaranteed until the end of the 
contract. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took the policy in 1999.  It is a regular premium, unit linked, reviewable, whole 
of life contract which provides a sum assured on the second death of the policy holders.
The policy chosen was provided by a company that has subsequently been taken over by 
OM, which I will refer to as OM.
Mr and Mrs W had advice at that time from an Independent Financial Adviser (IFA). 
Following a review of the plan by OM, Mr and Mrs W have received documentation stating 
that if they maintain their annual premium at the current level, they will be able to maintain 
the current level of life assurance until 2025, however, after 2025 the premium will need to 
increase significantly  and if it doesnt, their sum assured will need to decrease significantly.
Mr and Mrs W feel they have been misled  they took the contract out for a specific reason, 
and they believe both the premium and the sum assured should not be reviewable  
especially as the paperwork from the point of sale said the cover was projected to last for 48 
years. 
They feel there has been fraudulent misrepresentation or unjustified increases in the cost of 
life cover, which they base upon: their objectives when taking the plan; the premium; life of 
the plan; and risk factors (including actual investment returns and movements in mortality 
rates).
OM considered Mr and Mrs Ws concerns as a formal complaint. But in its final response it 
said that the contract stated that the annual premium and sum assured was guaranteed for 
the first 10 years only, after which it becomes reviewable. It also said it has done nothing 
wrong in providing this information to Mr and Mrs W, and is under no obligation to maintain 
the premium and cover.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with this explanation, and brought it to us where one of our 
investigators looked at the case.
The investigators view was that OM had provided a whole of life contract that was 
reviewable, as is standard for this type of contract, and it is to be expected that the premium 
would increase the longer the contract remains in place. His view was that this did not make the contract not fit for purpose, and there was no evidence that the plan was not being run 
correctly.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed, so the complaint was passed on to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint, and I will explain why.  
Its clear to me that Mr and Mrs W have strong feelings about this complaint and I appreciate 
they are in a difficult position now, having paid into this policy for 20 or so years already. 
They have provided detailed arguments to support their case which I can confirm Ive read 
and carefully considered. However, I trust that Mr and Mrs W will not take the fact that my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in 
less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised, 
but instead to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
Mr and Mrs Ws contract with OM is a regular premium, reviewable, whole of life contract, 
which is a standard way that these policies work.  The policy guaranteed the premium and 
sum assured for the first 10 years, after which it was reviewable.  
OM has provided Mr and Mrs W with the relevant information regarding how long they could 
maintain the current amount assured at the current premium, and what Mr and Mrs W need 
to do if they wish to maintain the same level of cover in the future.
It is my view that the contract is reviewable and the Key Features Document provided to Mr 
and Mrs W stated that figures within it are examples and not guaranteed.
I dont believe that OM has done anything wrong in this case. They appear to have 
conducted their review of mortality rates in line with industry recommendations for treating 
long standing customers fairly, and it is to be expected that life cover premiums will increase 
over time, which is why OM has sent Mr and Mrs W their plan review, including information 
about their options.
Its not for our service to intervene in how OM have set these rates as from what we can see, 
they have followed the regulators guidance  decisions OM made after this are of a 
commercial nature and not something we would or could get involved with. 
Mr and Mrs W say that the initial paperwork was an invitation to treat or in other words, a 
statement which was intended to be binding at law. I recognise they feel the point of sale 
paperwork was very important, especially where it said the premium was projected to 
support cover for 48 years. However, the projection was just that  an estimate, a forecast  
but not a certainty.
The projection was based on a number of variables  current cost of life cover, lifestyle and 
expected growth being just some of those. I appreciate Mr and Mrs W point to some of these 
variables having not worsened, but there are likely to be other factors to consider here too  
and as I said before, decisions on this that OM make are of a commercial nature. 
Regardless of whats led to this policy becoming more expensive, the key issue is that the 
projection is not something I can now fairly hold OM to  it did not guarantee the amount of 
cover or premium wouldnt change over the life of the plan.I understand that Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed as they are now facing a difficult 
decision with how to proceed with their policy. However, they were aware their policy was 
reviewable and I havent seen any error on OMs part. 
I would also like to reiterate the point that our investigator has made  OM was not involved 
in the conversations around the purpose of the life policy, and could not have known the 
specific reason Mr and Mrs W took this contract.  If Mr and Mrs W feel they were mis-sold or 
misled in this case, then they should complain to the IFA that advised them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Old Mutual Wealth Life 
Assurance Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Christian Holder
Ombudsman