DRN-4503128
The complaint
Mr A complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement with Oodle 
Financial Services Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wanted the costs he has been 
quoted for repair to be deducted from his agreement.
Mr A is represented by a third party but for ease of reference I have referred to Mr A 
throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr A entered into a hire purchase agreement with Oodle FS in April 2022. He paid a £25,000 
deposit and was required to make 60 monthly repayments of around £990. At the time of 
acquisition, the car was almost 13 years old and had been driven over 63,000 miles. Mr A 
says that he noticed issues with the car on the day of collection which he raised with the 
dealer. He raised a complaint with Oodle FS in May 2022 and then said he was having the 
car inspected for the issues to be diagnosed and costed.
Mr A explained that he booked a new key request, and his car was collected on 26 April 
2022. A new key fob was provided, and a general check undertaken. In this it was noted that 
the brake pads were worn even though Mr A says he paid for new brake pads and discs as 
part of the acquisition of the car and an oil spillage was noticed. A second vehicle health 
check was booked as a result of this. On 2 May 2022, Mr A took his car for a car wash and 
says that following this, scratches to the paintwork became visible which he believed had 
been covered with silicon before supply to prevent Mr A noticing these. A full vehicle health 
check was carried out on 12 May which noted several issues, including a cracked 
convertible roof frame. The rear windscreen then exploded which Mr A says was due to the 
previously identified defect with the roof frame.
Mr A said he was only happy for the repairs to be undertaken by the manufacturers dealer 
that he had received the quotes from. These totalled around £53,000 and he wanted this 
amount deducted from his agreement.
Oodle FS issued a final response letter dated 11 August 2022. It noted Mr As request for the 
repair costs to be deducted but thought these were excessive. It arranged for an 
independent inspection of the car to be undertaken. This reported the vehicles overall 
condition was satisfactory for a vehicle of its age and mileage but did state that some 
remedial repairs were needed and specifically mentioned the roof window. It noted the issue 
with the roof window occurred after supply and said this could account for the cracking of the 
roof bracket but that further investigation would be needed. It said it couldnt state whether 
the sales agent should be responsible for the rectification of the roof. It thought the 
suspension met the minimum MOT requirements and although there were issues with some 
of the internal electrical systems these were not critical and didnt prevent the car meeting 
MOT standards.
Oodle FS said that the dealer had offered to carry out the repairs identified in the 
independent inspection report and provide a courtesy car, or it would accept the rejection of 
the car. It didnt accept that £53,000 could be deducted from Mr As agreement. Oodle FS 
also said that Mr A had received three months of payment refunds to assist with costs of a 
hire vehicle.
Our investigator didnt think that Oodle FS was required to use the specific garage that Mr A 
had requested, and he didnt think it was required to reduce Mr As agreement by the quote 
for the repairs. He noted that Mr A had been refunded three monthly repayments and he 
thought the resolutions offered by Oodle FS were reasonable. Because of this he didnt 
uphold this complaint.
Our investigator also noted that during the investigation to Mr As complaint he had advised 
that he continued to drive the car which then broke down and became undriveable. He also 
said he incurred a charge for a warranty that wasnt disclosed. Our investigator explained 
that as these issues were not part of Mr As original complaint, they would need to be raised 
separately for Oodle FS to consider first before being referred to this service if Mr A wasnt 
happy with the outcome.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators view. He reiterated that the car had broken down 
and said that Oodle FS wouldnt consider this new part of his complaint until this initial 
complaint had been addressed.
My provisional conclusions dated 11 May 2023
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint dated 11 May 2023. The details of which are 
set out below.
Mr A acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement in April 2022. Under the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015, Oodle FS can be held liable if the 
car supplied wasnt of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality considers factors such as the 
age and mileage of the car. At the time of acquisition, the car was 13 years old and had 
been driven over 63,000 miles. I note various modifications were undertaken to the car 
before Mr A received it. Given the age and mileage of the car it is reasonable to accept that 
it would have suffered some wear and tear. That said, when assessing satisfactory quality, it 
would be expected that the car was reasonably durable.
Mr A raised issues with the dealer on the day he collected the car. A vehicle check was 
carried out on 12 May which recorded a list of issues. This shows that there were faults with 
the car at the time. Oodle FS instructed an independent inspection to take place. I 
appreciate the comments Mr A has made about this inspection report and why he feels more 
reliance should be placed on the vehicle check report and the quote for repairs he has 
provided. But I have taken all the evidence into account. The independent inspection report 
stated that the vehicles overall condition was satisfactory but that some remedial repairs 
were needed, specifically noting the roof. While there are notable differences in the 
outcomes of the report in terms of what the issues were both confirm that there were issues 
with the car at the time of inspection.
I note the comments in the independent inspection report about it not being clear whether 
the issue with the roof was the responsibility of the sales agent and I appreciate there isnt 
clear evidence to state whether certain issues were due to faults that were present at the 
point of supply. But, given when the issues were first noted and that several issues were 
then confirmed by inspections within a few weeks of Mr A having the car, I find on balance it 
is reasonable to accept that there were faults with the car which were mostly present or 
developing from the point of supply. Because of this I do not find the car was of satisfactory 
quality.While Oodle FS didnt uphold Mr As complaint, it said that the dealer would carry out the 
repairs noted in the independent inspection report and that it would support the rejection of 
the car. I appreciate Mr A wants repairs to be undertaken by a specific dealer and I can 
understand why he would want a specialist to carry out the repairs. But I cannot say the 
dealer Mr A has used is the only one which could undertake the work to a reasonable 
standard and so I do not find that Oodle FS or the dealer are wrong to say that the repairs 
could be undertaken elsewhere. That said I have looked through the text messages and 
other communications between Mr A and the dealer and it does appear that the relationship 
has broken down. And given the possible costs of the repairs, in this case I am not 
convinced that repair is the most suitable remedy.
In circumstances where a car isnt of satisfactory quality, a remedy can be for the car to be 
rejected. While I appreciate that Mr A may wish to keep the car, I do not find that his request 
for £53,000 to be taken from his agreement is reasonable. As the relationship between Mr A 
and the dealer appears to have broken down and the costs of repair could be uneconomical, 
I think the fairest resolution to this complaint is for Mr A to be allowed to reject the car.
Mr A has said he hasnt been able to use the car from 30 September 2022. I note that he 
has been refunded three monthly payments as a gesture of goodwill. In the event Mr A can 
confirm that no use has been made of the car from 30 September 2022 I think it reasonable 
he is refunded any payments made from this date (less the refunds already made).
Being provided with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality has caused Mr A distress and 
inconvenience. I can see that options were provided to him for repair, but he has had to 
spend time getting quotes for work and has had to pay for a car that more recently hasnt 
been able to be used. Because of the inconvenience he has been caused, I think Oodle FS 
should pay Mr A £250 compensation.
The redress set out in my provisional decision was as follows:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr A.
Cancel the agreement with no further costs to Mr A
Refund Mr A his repayments from 30 September 2022 less the refunds already made 
and subject to evidence being provided to show the car wasnt able to be driven from 
this time (a current mileage would give an indication of this).
Pay Mr A £250 compensation for the inconvenience he has been caused.
Remove any adverse information that may have been recorded on Mr As credit file 
in regard to this agreement.
Following the issuing of my provisional decision, the parties were contacted to explain the 
redress should also include the refund of Mr As deposit along with interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Following my provisional decision dated 11 May 2023 further information was provided and 
further discussions took place between the parties involved. I therefore issued a second 
provisional decision to allow the parties a chance to provide any final comments on the 
various issues raised.
Correspondence provided following the provisional decision dated 11 May 2023
On 15 June 2023, Mr A contacted this service to say he accepted the provisional decision, 
and the car should be collected from the garage. He provided the following list of refunds he 
believed he was due:1. £25,000 (40% deposit) for the vehicle
2. £7,278.63 for the hood fabric (broken rear window) replacement plus VAT - 
£1,455.73 (VAT not applied)
3. £250 FOS compensation (for stress and inconvenience)
4. £8,446.86 instalments (excludes the three payments received whilst vehicle in use)
5. Settlement for the repairs undertaken to allow diagnostic tests. Invoice sent directly 
to Oodle from the garage.
6. Settlement of £1,000 for the cost of the diagnostics report dated May 2022 agreed 
with Oodle in June 2022, also confirmed, and agreed with Oodle in June 2023.
Total Amount: £41,975.46
Oodle FS provided information from the dealership including the information previously 
provided of the offers made to Mr A in June 2022 regarding inspection and repair or the 
return of the car. It provided a summary of the offers it had made in the preceding months.
These are summarised below:
1. an independent assessor to be organised for a fair wear and tear inspection to the 
vehicle. Depending on the outcome of the assessment should any rectification work 
be required, the vehicle would be returned to the dealership for works to be 
completed, then re-inspected and signed off by the independent assessor. It said it 
was agreed that main dealerships are not the most suited organisations for this type 
of work to a specialist vehicle.
2. unwind the sale but no refund for the £8,229 spent on customisations requested by 
the customer.
3. deliver Mr A a suitable courtesy car from its showroom (worth over £66,000 at the 
time).
4. re-check and rectify problems mentioned by Mr A, whether these were completed by 
the dealership, or a local independent specialist organised by it.
It said Mr A hadnt accepted the offers made.
Oodle FS said it thought it would be able to resolve the issues with Mr A. It said that it 
agreed to cover the cost of the inspection and recovery estimated at £100 and £180 
respectively but Mr A hadnt provided the quotes and was now including further costs.
It said Mr A said the car had been in storage for a year which it wasnt aware of, and it 
refused to pay the costs of this and said Mr A accepted this. But Mr A was now asking for 
Oodle FS to pay for repairs undertaken by the garage the car was recovered to. These are 
costs for a replaced battery that was needed for diagnostic testing and it was now saying this 
cant happen unless an £8,000 repair to suspension is carried out so a test drive can happen 
to find any further faults. Oodle FS said that the repairing garage is asking for around £2,500 
for work already completed. It said it hadnt agreed to these repairs and Mr A didnt contact it 
before having these undertaken. It noted this service had issued a view on a linked 
complaint which it didnt uphold and said Oodle FS wasnt liable for the cost of the 
suspension. It asked what costs it would be liable for and noted Mr A had damaged the car 
by continuing to drive it.
My provisional conclusions dated 24 July 2023
I issued a second provisional decision on this complaint dated 24 July 2023. The details of 
which are set out below.It appears that the desired outcome from this complaint is for the car to be repaired. I say 
this because Mr A was offered the opportunity to return the car in June 2022 which he didnt 
accept and I also provided the option of rejection in my provisional decision but Mr A 
continued discussions with Oodle FS and undertook repairs (I note these werent checked 
with Oodle FS before they took place). That said, in this case I still think that rejection is the 
fair outcome. I say this because the repair costs in this case are still uncertain. There is the 
suggestion of £8,000 for the suspension repair in order to test drive the car (as well as the 
repairs already undertaken in regard to the battery) and these would then allow the car to be 
fully assessed. Following this it isnt clear whether further repairs will be needed. Therefore, I 
cannot say with any certainty the extent of the cost of repairs and whether these would be 
economical.
In response to my provisional decision the issue of storage costs has been raised in relation 
to this complaint. Mr A has said he hasnt been able to use his car since end September 
2022. The car has therefore needed to be stored. While I understand this has resulted in 
costs, I have to assess whether it is fair that Oodle FS is required to cover these. In this case 
Mr A was offered solutions to the issues with his car in May and June 2022, including an 
independent inspection and the offer of returning the car. He didnt accept these offers at the 
time. Had he done so, it is likely this complaint would have been resolved at that time.
I also note that Mr A didnt raise the issue of storage costs with Oodle FS until 10 January 
2023 and I can see in the final response letter issued 31 January 2023, Oodle FS offered to 
cover the storage costs from 10 January until the date the car was collected subject to Mr A 
accepting its offer and paying the other storage costs. Mr A declined the offer. While I 
understand Mr A had his reasons, I cannot say that he has taken action to mitigate his 
storage costs. Oodle FS and the dealership have provided opportunities for this case to be 
resolved sooner and so in this case I do not find that it is fair and reasonable to hold Oodle 
FS liable for the storage costs incurred.
Mr A hasnt been able to use the car since end September 2022. I accept that there is 
uncertainty about whether his continuing to drive the car between the identification of repairs 
being needed and September 2022 contributed to the break down. But, as I find the car 
wasnt satisfactory quality at supply, I also acknowledge that the underlying cause for the 
break down could be due to an issue developing at supply. Therefore, I think it fair Mr A is 
refunded his payments from end September 2022.
As part of the redress, I said that Mr As deposit should be refunded along with 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement. The dealership has raised the 
issue of the cost of customisations it made to the car which it felt it shouldnt need to refund. 
It hasnt clearly stated whether it thought this should be deducted from any deposit refunded. 
It appears any modifications were made as part of the initial sales process, and I do not find 
that I need to consider these separately. As my decision is that the car is rejected, I would 
expect the full deposit amount paid to be refunded.
Since my provisional decision, Mr A has had the roof cover and glass replaced and other 
repairs in order to have the car diagnosed. Oodle FS has said that it didnt approve these 
repairs. I note that the vehicle health check from May 2022 noted a cracked roof frame. This 
issue wasnt confirmed as being present at the point of supply in the independent inspection 
report. The windscreen hadnt shattered at that time, and I note that Mr A continued to drive 
the car knowing there was an issue. Given the roof repair wasnt authorised and I cannot say 
for certain the issue was the result of a fault present at the point of supply or that by 
continuing to drive the car with the fault identified that this didnt cause further damage, I do 
not find it is reasonable to say that Oodle FS is responsible for this repair cost. Mr A has also 
continued with further repairs which he says Oodle FS should cover the cost of. However, as these were undertaken without the agreement of Oodle FS and after I had recommended a 
rejection of the car, I do not find it reasonable that Oodle FS is required to pay for these.
I can see that there have been discussions about the cost of the May 2022 inspection report 
being refunded. I think it reasonable, given the initial issues Mr A experienced that the cost 
of the May 2022, report is refunded to him, subject to evidence of the cost being provided. 
This refund should be made along with 8% interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
This is a complex case and I appreciate my outcome may not be what either party wants. 
However, given the various aspects to the complaint and the attempts at trying to resolve 
this over the past months, I find the fairest outcome is for the car to be rejected and 
associated costs refunded as set out below. I also find that compensation of £250 is 
reasonable as previously set out.
My provisional decision is that Oodle Financial Services Limited should allow Mr A to reject 
the car and take the following action:
1. Collect the car at no cost to Mr A.
2. Cancel the agreement with no further costs to Mr A.
3. Refund Mr A his repayments from 30 September 2022 less the refunds already made 
and subject to evidence being provided to show the car wasnt able to be driven from 
this time (a current mileage would give an indication of this).
4. Refund Mr A the deposit paid (recorded as £25,000 in the hire purchase agreement).
5. Refund Mr A the cost of the May 2022 inspection once evidence of the cost has been 
provided.
6. Pay Mr A £250 compensation for the inconvenience he has been caused.
7. Remove any adverse information that may have been recorded on Mr As credit file 
in regard to this agreement.
Items 3,4 and 5 are subject to 8% simple interest* from the date of payment to the date of
settlement.
*If Oodle Financial Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also 
give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one.
Following my second provisional decision, Oodle FS commented that although the 
agreement was in the name of Mr A, it appeared that the car had been acquired for another 
party (Party B). It noted that invoices associated with the car were in the name of Party B 
and the personalised numberplate on the car appeared to be linked to Party B. It said that 
shortly after acquisition Mr A requested the direct debit set up for his monthly payments 
change to the account of a company that Party B was a director of. This couldnt be actioned 
as Mr A wasnt an active director of the company.
My provisional conclusions dated 23 November 2023
I issued a further provisional decision to address the new information that had been raised. 
My findings were as set out below.
The evidence provided following my second provisional decision doesnt challenge my 
reasoning in regard to whether the car was of satisfactory quality at supply. Therefore, I 
havent changed my conclusion on this point and still require the relevant action to be taken 
in regard to the car being rejected. That is:Collect the car at no cost to Mr A.
Cancel the agreement with no further costs to Mr A.
Remove any adverse information that may have been recorded on Mr As credit file 
in regard to this agreement.
The issue Oodle FS raised was in regard to whether Mr A took out the agreement for 
another party (Party B) and therefore didnt incur the costs associated with the agreement. 
As we can only require Oodle FS to refund the complainant for the costs they have incurred I 
cannot require Oodle FS to refund Mr A for payments that he didnt make or that were 
funded by another party.
In light of the above, we asked for further evidence to be provided in regard to the car and 
the costs Mr A had incurred. We received the following:
The registered keeper document. The registered keeper was recorded as Party B.
Evidence of the deposit payment. Six receipts were provided to evidence the deposit 
payment of £25,000. These showed two payments made from each of three separate 
accounts. Mr A provided a statement showing the payment of £10,000 on 11 
December 2021 and this came from an account in the name of Party B. There was 
another payment from this account for £4,000 in July 2021. This shows that Party B 
paid at least £14,000 of the deposit amount.
I havent been provided evidence of the account names for the other payments, but I 
note they were debit card transactions, and they werent from the account that Mr A 
has provided to evidence his monthly repayments. Given the evidence provided, I 
find, on balance, that while Mr A may have made the deposit payments over the 
phone with the dealer, he didnt suffer the costs of these as they were more likely 
than not (and definitely in part) financed by Party B.
Monthly repayments. Mr A provided a copy of transactions from his bank account for 
the period 1 May 2022 to 3 July 2023. It appears he has limited the information 
provided to just show the transactions linked to the hire purchase agreement 
payments. The monthly payments can be seen leaving Mr As account each month 
from May 2022 to July 2023. A couple of the payments are returned unpaid, and the 
statement shows that counter payments were made in June and September 2022 for 
the exact amount of the monthly payment and one of these shows the credit being 
made by Party B.
As I havent seen the full statement details, I cannot say if other payments to Oodle 
FS were being financed through deposits made by Party B. But this evidence, 
alongside the evidence provided by Oodle FS that Mr A requested to change the 
bank account details to Party Bs company account in the same month he entered 
into the agreement (but this wasnt allowed), raises concerns that Mr A wasnt 
bearing the financial cost of the monthly payments.
Inspection report cost. I havent seen evidence of the cost of the inspection report 
carried out in May 2022 and this would need to be provided and show that Mr A 
incurred the cost of this in order for this to be refunded.
Based on the above, it appears that Mr A entered in the agreement to acquire a luxury car 
for the benefit of Party B. The evidence suggests that Party B financed the agreement both 
in regard to the deposit payment and the monthly payments as well as covering other 
additional repair and storage costs. This complaint has been raised by Mr A and the agreement is in his name, but as Mr A didnt incur the costs, I cannot require Oodle FS to 
refund him the amounts I previously set out (that being the monthly repayments from 
September 2022 until when the car was repaired and the £25,000 deposit). That said, any 
monthly payments that havent been made for the period when the car wasnt driveable 
should be waived.
If evidence of the inspection cost being paid by Mr A is provided this refund is still relevant.
In summary, the new evidence provided hasnt changed my conclusion that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and Mr A should be allowed to reject it. But I cannot require refunds to be 
made for costs Mr A didnt incur. Therefore, I have revised my redress in regard to this 
complaint.
Oodle Financial Services Limited should
1. Collect the car at no cost to Mr A.
2. Cancel the agreement with no further costs to Mr A. And waive any payments that 
havent been made for the period when the car wasnt able to be driven (evidence to 
be provided if needed).
3. Remove any adverse information that may have been recorded on Mr As credit file 
in regard to this agreement.
4. Refund Mr A the cost of the May 2022 inspection along with 8% interest* from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement once evidence of the cost being incurred by 
Mr A has been provided.
5. Pay Mr A £250 compensation for the inconvenience he has been caused by being 
provided a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality.
In the event Mr A is able to evidence that he incurred the financial costs (without funding 
being provided from another source) of the monthly payments when the car wasnt able to 
be used or the initial deposit payments then we would expect these amounts to be refunded 
by Oodle FS as per my previous provisional decision.
*If Oodle Financial Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also 
give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one.
Mr A responded to my provisional decision. He shared information from a credit card 
provider which had limited the amount he could spend which he said was a result of Oodle 
FSs conduct. He said he expected all funds, along with an 8% interest, (including the 
£25,000 deposit) to be returned to him. And he should be restored to the same financial 
position he was in prior to the agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the information Mr A has provided in response to my provisional decision 
issued on 23 November 2023. However, this doesnt change my conclusions. Mr A provided 
a copy of a letter from a credit card provider but I have nothing further to support the 
suggestion that the card providers actions are a direct result of the issue Mr A has 
experienced with Oodle FS.
I understand that Mr A feels he should be refunded all his costs including his deposit. As I 
have set out from the start, I accept that there was a breach of contract as I do not find that the car supplied was of satisfactory quality. Because of this I said Mr A should be allowed to 
reject the car.
I set out what further action we would expect when a car is rejected but also that I can only 
require Oodle FS to refund costs that Mr A has incurred. The evidence provided in this case 
suggests that Mr A entered into the agreement for Party B and that deposit payments as well 
as other costs have been funded by Party B. The monthly payments Mr A made appeared in 
cases to be funded from elsewhere. Without evidence to show that Mr A has suffered the 
costs involved in this agreement, I cannot require Oodle FS to refund these to him.
As no further evidence has been provided to suggest the conclusions I set out in my 
provisional decision of 23 November 2023 are incorrect in regard to the payments, my 
conclusions havent changed.
So, in conclusion, I find that Mr A should be allowed to reject the car and Oodle FS should 
collect the car, cancel the agreement and waive any payments that havent been made for 
the period when the car wasnt able to be driven (evidence to be provided if needed). But I 
do not find that I have evidence to say that Mr A incurred the cost of the deposit payment or 
the monthly rentals and without this I do not find I can require Oodle FS to refund these 
amounts.
Putting things right
Oodle Financial Services Limited should
1. Collect the car at no cost to Mr A.
2. Cancel the agreement with no further costs to Mr A. And waive any payments that 
havent been made for the period when the car wasnt able to be driven (evidence to 
be provided if needed).
3. Remove any adverse information that may have been recorded on Mr As credit file 
in regard to this agreement.
4. Refund Mr A the cost of the May 2022 inspection along with 8% interest* from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement once evidence of the cost being incurred by 
Mr A has been provided.
5. Pay Mr A £250 compensation for the inconvenience he has been caused by being 
provided a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality.
In the event Mr A is able to evidence that he incurred the financial costs (without funding 
being provided from another source) of the monthly payments when the car wasnt able to 
be used or the initial deposit payments then we would expect these amounts to be refunded 
by Oodle FS as per my previous provisional decisions.
*If Oodle Financial Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also 
give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that Oodle Financial Services Limited should take the actions set out 
above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 Jane Archer
Ombudsman