DRN-4118912
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) have given him conflicting 
pension policy values at various time and hes lost faith in their ability to provide accurate 
information. Mr M is seeking clarity as to the true value of his pension.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision upholding Mr Ms complaint and setting out what Aviva 
needed to do to put things right. A copy of the background to the complaint, and my 
provisional findings, are below in italics and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
What happened
I havent set everything out in detail here  the events leading up to this complaint are known 
by both parties and arent disputed. So in summary: 
In January 2020 Mr M received two different valuations for his pension plan a week apart   
one valued his plan at around £232,000 while the other valued it at around £315,500.
In February 2020 Mr M complained to Aviva about the conflicting information hed received. 
Mr M said it wasnt the first time hed experienced a discrepancy. He also said he couldnt 
see up to date information on his My Aviva phone application because hed been told it was 
too complicated to load on. Mr M said he felt he was entitled to know how his pension was 
performing.
Aviva upheld Mr Ms complaint. In its letter of 19 February 2020 it said it had issued incorrect 
policy valuations in April 2019 and again on 15 January 2020. It said it confirmed that the 
higher valuation Mr M received on 23 January 2020 was the correct one. It apologised for its 
error and it paid Mr M £250.
In March 2020 Aviva issued a policy statement to Mr Ms financial adviser firm, which said 
that the policy valuation of around £315,500 in its letter of 23 January 2020 was incorrect  
the value as at February 2020 was around £253,000.
In July 2020 Mr M transferred his pension from Aviva  the transfer value paid was around 
£252,300.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service because he was concerned about the transfer 
value he received of around £252,300 when hed been told in February 2020 that the true 
value was significantly higher and he didnt think the drop was due to market performance. 
Mr M believes another mistake has been made.
Aviva responded to the complaint by referring to its final response letter of February 2020.
One of investigators looked at all of this and they upheld the complaint. In summary they 
said that Aviva had clearly caused confusion by referring to different policy values. They said 
Aviva hadnt responded to their request for it to provide calculations or to clearly explain how 
the value changed significantly between February 2020 and July 2020. To put things right 
they said Aviva should pay Mr M a further £250 and that it should recalculate the transfer 
value showing its workings in a clear and simple format  unless it could clearly show the 
true value and point out where the errors occurred.
After a not insignificant delay, Aviva agreed with the investigators findings  it said it would 
arrange for its calculations team to explain the difference in the valuation figures and it 
agreed to pay Mr M £250.
Aviva then responded with the following information. It firstly explained that the higher 
valuation figure of around £315,500 Mr M received was incorrect. It said this calculation 
duplicated a single premium Mr M paid in May 2014. It said the premium was included twice 
in the unit holdings and with growth, the policy was overvalued by around £52,500. It said 
the correct value on the letter at the time should have been around £263,000.
It later provided Mr M with a letter, which summarised the above error and it also provided a 
unit statement as at 21 January 2020, showing the number of units Mr Ms policy held across 
his two funds, the bid price of the units and the resulting value. It then provided a unit 
statement showing the same information as at 19 June 2020 and it explained that the drop in 
value between the dates to around £252,300 was due to a fall in the associated bid prices.
Mr M remains dissatisfied with Avivas response. He says while theyve reiterated that a 
mistake was made, theyve not provided any workings out. He also said he remains unhappy 
that Aviva previously confirmed the higher valuation amount was correct and says he has no 
confidence that what they provide is accurate.
The investigator also asked Aviva to provide more clarity around its calculations. They also 
asked Aviva to provide policy statements showing Mr Ms pension plan value prior to the 
valuation error. But Aviva hasnt responded.
Because things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its clear that Aviva has made mistakes in calculating Mr Ms pension plan value. 
When Mr M complained about the discrepancy in the value information it provided in January 
2020, it said that one value was correct, and then it subsequently changed its mind and it 
provided a revised value. But Aviva accepts that it made a mistake  it was an actuarial error 
 and it accepted the investigators conclusions on what it needed to do to put things right. It 
seems that Aviva believes it has done that, whereas Mr M feels it hasnt.
So this is where the dispute now lies  I need to decide what, if anything more, Aviva needs 
to do here.
In the investigators opinion, they said that Aviva should recalculate Mr Ms pension plan 
transfer value and show its workings in a clear and simple format  unless it can clearly 
show the true value and point out where the errors occurred. It also said Aviva should pay Mr M £250 for the further upset caused.
Firstly, its clear that Mr M has been caused distress and inconvenience in this matter. And I 
dont doubt that hes frustrated by Avivas actions. So taking all of this into account, I think 
£250 represents fair compensation for the upset caused to Mr M.
Secondly  I can understand why Mr M has lost confidence in Avivas ability to provide him 
with accurate information and why he is looking to Aviva to provide more information, 
workings out, or further calculations to support what it has said. But I think there is a limit 
here to whats reasonable for Aviva to provide.
As I set out in the section above, Aviva has provided an explanation for the error in its 
calculation  it said it was an actuarial error where it duplicated a single payment in Mr Ms 
unit holdings, which led to an overvaluation of the plan. It then provided a unit statement or 
calculation of what the value should have been at that time along with how it arrived at the 
transfer value in July 2020. It also explained that the difference between the two valuations 
was due to a fall in the associated unit price.
In my view Avivas explanation for the error is plausible  it seems Mr Ms plan required a 
manual calculation, so had the potential for human error. And this appears to be what 
happened here. I dont think the higher valuation was a correct figure, despite what Aviva 
said at the time  I dont think it can be explained by a sudden and substantial change in the 
market and associated unit price for example. I consider the fall in the fund unit prices 
between February and June 2020 is in line with the general market movement at the time 
(this was the start of the Covid pandemic.) And I think the unit statements Aviva provided are 
in line with what can reasonably be described as a clear and simple format. In my view the 
unit statements are typical of the extent of the information it is reasonable for a pension plan 
provider to provide when producing valuation information.
Its clear that there is a more complex manual calculation Avivas actuaries have to carry out 
to produce Mr Ms plan valuation  presumably in relation to the unit price. But I dont think it 
is proportionate, appropriate, or reasonable for Aviva to provide Mr M with this information. 
While it might satisfy Mr Ms desire for more workings or calculations to support what Aviva 
says, I think its highly likely that it would not be in a clear and simple to understand format 
and would simply serve to create more confusion.
So I dont intend to direct Aviva to provide any further information or explanation about what 
it has already provided. I think Aviva has sufficiently explained the reason for the valuation 
error and provided fair and appropriate information of Mr Ms pension values at the relevant 
points in time.
Nevertheless, Im mindful of Mr Ms desire for further clarity around things. And as I said 
before, I can understand why hes lost confidence in Aviva. So, in an attempt to provide Mr 
M with further clarity and reassurance around the valuation figures, while at the same time 
being both specific and realistic about the information Aviva is able to provide, I think it 
should also provide Mr M with unit statement information before the actuarial error made in 
January 2020.
I think Aviva should provide unit statement information in the same format as it has already 
provided (units held, bid price and value for each holding) for Mr Ms pension plan for the last 
three quarters of 2019  so as at 30 June 2019, 30 September 2019, and 30 December 
2019.In my view this additional information is a proportionate and fair request, which along with 
the existing information Aviva has already provided, will highlight that the valuation figure Mr 
M was provided with of around £315,500 was clearly an error, as it has explained. I think this 
is a fair way to resolve things.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this compliant and to put things right Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
should do the following:
pay Mr M £250 in compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience this matter 
has caused (if it hasnt already done so); and
provide Mr M with unit statement value information of his pension plan as at 30 June 
2019, 30 September 2019, and 30 December 2019.
Aviva agreed to provide the further valuation statements to Mr M as I recommended. It said it 
noted the total compensation award was £500  two payments of £250, which have both 
been paid to Mr M.
Mr M replied and in summary he said it was difficult to understand what was going on from 
one statement to the next because Aviva didnt always provide the same data in the same 
way or for the same defined 12-month period. Mr M believes the confusion spans several 
years so he says he would like clear workings year on year to give credence to Avivas 
claims that things are correct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not been given anything new or a reason to change my mind  Ive 
reached the same overall conclusion and for the same reasons as I set out in my provisional 
decision.
As I said in my provisional decision, I can understand why Mr M has lost confidence in 
Avivas ability to provide him with accurate information and why he is looking to Aviva to 
provide him more information and workings out. But as I also said, there is a limit here to 
whats reasonable for Aviva to provide. So I still think in the circumstances that a fair way to 
resolve things is for Aviva to provide the additional statement information for the periods in 
2019 as I recommended.
Putting things right
I understand that Aviva has already paid Mr M total compensation of £500 (two payments of 
£250). If so, to put things right Aviva should provide Mr M with unit statement value 
information of his pension plan as at 30 June 2019, 30 September 2019, and 30 December 
2019.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited should put things right as Ive detailed above. I make no other award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman