DRN-2082052
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC incorrectly applied a fee relating to his stocks 
and shares ISA after it had been closed.
 
What happened
Mr M moved his ISA from Barclays to a new provider. One of the stocks that hed held had 
been de-listed, so couldnt be transferred. His Barclays account was therefore put in a 
closing state, which meant that it wouldnt be formally closed, but Mr M wouldnt receive 
further communications or be charged further fees. 
In April 2019 Barclays carried out an exercise looking to re-certify de-listed stocks such as 
that held by Mr M. This meant that his account was temporarily taken out of the closing 
state, which unfortunately led to a letter being sent to him and a £4 charge applied. 
Mr M immediately queried this by telephone. Barclays investigated the issue and wrote to 
him explaining what had happened. It apologised and said that it would ensure the account 
was placed back into the correct state. It also waived the fee and offered Mr M £100 for the 
trouble the matter had caused. 
Mr M didnt accept this as he felt the matter warranted more compensation. He referred the 
complaint to this service, but our investigator didnt think that Barclays needed to do any 
more. He felt its offer to Mr M was fair in the circumstances. 
As Mr M didnt accept the investigators opinion, the matters been referred to me to review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Its clearly unfortunate that Barclays project, which was intended to help resolve situations 
like Mr Ms, led to him being incorrectly charged. And Im sure it was frustrating for him to 
have to follow the matter up. 
But mistakes do happen, and in this case I think the explanation and resolution offered by 
Barclays is fair. I note that Mr M feels the level of compensation should be higher, but Im 
satisfied that £100 is reasonable and in line with the level of award I wouldve made had 
Barclays not already made its offer. 
Mr M has referred to other issues hes experienced with Barclays relating to the transfer of 
his ISA and this may be why he feels Barclays should pay more. But in this decision, Im 
looking solely at the issue of the fee being charged as a result of the account status change. 
If there are other issues in addition to that one, Mr M would need to raise them separately 
with Barclays, which I understand he has done in the past.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman