DRN-3711898
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the £1,500 he lost after falling 
victim to a scam. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in early September 2022 to explain why I thought Mr As 
complaint should not be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give 
me. This is an extract from my provisional decision: 
In May 2020, Mr A was interested in investing his money in cryptocurrencies. He was 
introduced to a friend of a friend, who I will call Mr B, via a social media platform. Mr A was 
told that Mr B had helped his friend in the past with his own investments, by working as a 
broker investing in the stock market and cryptocurrencies and obtaining favourable returns 
on his money. So, Mr A decided to contact Mr B to find out about his services.  
Mr A was told that Mr B worked for a company who was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). During their messages, Mr B sent Mr A images of his trading account 
showing closed trades for his clients with favourable returns. And he was also shown an 
image of Mr Bs company bank account with a large balance. This convinced Mr A that Mr 
B was a legitimate broker, and he decided to send him £1,500 by bank transfer from his 
Monzo account for Mr B to invest in cryptocurrency for him.  
Mr B said that on receipt of the funds, hed send Mr A various documents including his 
government ID, proof of his trade being placed and a letter covering Mr As funds from his 
solicitor. But after making the payment, Mr A didnt receive these documents, and Mr B didnt 
respond to Mr As contact attempts. It was at this point Mr A realised hed been the victim of 
a scam and contacted Monzo on 14 May 2020 via its online chat to explain what had 
happened, and asked it to refund the money. 
But Monzo didnt think it was liable for his loss, and said it followed its regulatory 
requirements correctly when looking at Mr As fraud claim. Mr A remained unhappy, and so 
referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened, and recommended that Monzo refund 
the £1,500 to Mr A. They said this because:
Mr A was introduced to Mr B by a close friend who had previously invested with him 
and had received returns. She could therefore understand why Mr A believed this to 
be genuine. 
Mr B said he worked for a genuine financial business, and Mr A checked the FCA 
register and saw they were regulated. Therefore, she thought it was reasonable that 
he believed he was dealing with a genuine company representative. 
The details of his client investments and screen shot of his account balance led Mr A 
to believe this must be a genuine opportunity. She thought this was reasonable. 
Monzo didnt agree with the investigator and asked for a final decision, so the complaint
has been passed to me. In summary, Monzo made the following points:
It didnt believe that Mr A had a sufficient basis of trust that Mr B was genuine, as he 
was introduced to him through a friend of a friend, and not a close friend as the 
investigator had suggested. 
If Mr A had checked the FCA register before sending the £1,500, he wouldve seen a 
warning to say that fraudsters are claiming to work for a clone firm of the genuine 
business. 
The account name that Mr A sent his money to, was not the same name that Mr B 
claimed to have. As it was different, Mr A didnt have a reasonable basis for believing 
that the payee was the person he was expecting to pay. 
The scam and contact took place over a social media platform, and not one that is 
intended or associated with investment opportunities. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im currently minded to
say that Monzo isnt required to refund the £1,500 to Mr A. Ill explain why.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model
(CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances, but has agreed to apply its
principles. Monzo say exceptions to reimbursement apply in this case. It says that Mr A
didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the person he transacted with was legitimate or 
was providing a legitimate service.
When thinking about whats fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
shouldve reimbursed Mr A under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it ought to 
have done more to protect him from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Theres no dispute here that Mr A was tricked into making the payment. But this isnt
enough for Mr A to receive a full refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code
places a level of care on Mr A too.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish
that*:
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate
The customer has been grossly negligent
* There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM code, but these are not applicable in this 
case. 
Ive carefully considered Monzos comments that Mr A didnt have a reasonable basis for 
believing that the investment opportunity was genuine. Thinking about how Mr A was 
introduced to Mr B, and the lack of documentation that was presented to him before making 
the transfer of £1,500, I agree with the bank in this case. Ill explain why. Our investigator asked Mr A if he had received any documentation from Mr B before making 
the transfer, but he said he had not. He maintained that as Mr B had showed him two screen 
shots from his trading account and from his bank account balance, it was reasonable for 
him to believe that this investment opportunity was all above board. But I do not think it 
would be likely that a legitimate employee of a FCA regulated business, would advertise for 
custom via an unofficial social media platform not associated with investment opportunities. 
And, within the screen shot Mr B shared with Mr A, the fact that other clients information 
seems to have been displayed/shared online is a concerning feature  as this would 
represent a potential breach of data protection laws. I note Mr As comments that he did 
check the FCA register to see if the company Mr B claimed to work for was genuine. And I 
accept that the relevant warning on the FCA register that Monzo mentioned a linked 
business rather than the one he thought he was doing business with, so he may not have 
seen any warning. However, I think this sharing of personal data of his clients should have 
raised alarm bells for Mr A, and in view of this, I think it wouldve been reasonable for him to 
carry out further checks, and ask for the documentation before making the transfer (and not 
relying on Mr Bs promise that this would be sent after the payment was made). Such 
documentation  couldve included evidence that Mr B actually worked for the company he 
said he did, written details of the investment opportunity, including the duration of the 
investment and its expected returns, and a letter covering Mr As funds from Mr Bs solicitor 
(which he was promised after the transfer had been made). Mr A has told our investigator 
that he knew the investment was for cryptocurrency, but he didnt know what one, and 
couldnt remember the rate of return. Although he knew that a return on his money wasnt 
guaranteed. But I havent seen any reason why he thought the broker would only send him 
documents after the money was sent, and why he would not request them prior to the 
payment. 
If Mr A had asked for paperwork as Ive suggested above, Im satisfied this wouldnt have 
materialised and on balance, its likely he wouldve thought twice about the investment. But, 
based on the checks he did make before sending the £1,500 to a person he hadnt met, and 
had only spoken to using a social media platform, I dont think Mr A had reasonable basis for 
believing that the investment opportunity was genuine, nor that Mr B was a genuine 
representative of the legitimate investment company. Its my judgement that the two screen 
shots he received through social media messaging were not enough to show that the 
investment opportunity was real. I appreciate that Mr A says he was introduced to Mr B via a 
friend of a friend, but I dont feel this introduction was enough to trust that the opportunity 
was legitimate. I appreciate the social media platform was set up in such a way that Mr A 
was aware of an alleged success story. But given the nature of the platform used it wasnt 
possible for Mr A to verify this. And it also doesnt appear any attempts were made to do so. 
I dont find it was reasonable to rely on these features to judge the investment as genuine, in 
addition to other concerning features. And whilst Mr A says he checked the FCA register for 
the company Mr B claimed to work for, he didnt actually have any evidence that Mr B did 
work for them. It follows that its my judgement that Mr A failed to take the requisite level of 
care required for Monzo to reimburse him under the terms of the CRM Code.
Monzo, in its submissions to this service, did also refer to a warning that Mr A wouldve seen
at the point he was making the payment. Under the CRM Code, Monzo was required to 
present an effective warning where it identified a scam risk. I dont consider that the payment 
made by Mr A was out of the ordinary and therefore, the bank ought to have believed there 
was a scam risk. The amount sent wasnt particularly large. I appreciate Mr A didnt often 
send money of this value from his Monzo account, but rather used it for smaller card 
payments. But I dont consider there were any concerning features of the £1,500 payment to 
put the bank on notice. And so I dont believe the bank needed to do more than it did in 
terms of providing warnings about making the payment.Overall, in the circumstances of Mr As complaint, I dont consider that Monzo is responsible 
for his £1,500 loss. 
My provisional decision
Its my provisional decision that I intend to reject Mr As complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. 
Monzo responded to my provisional decision to say they had nothing further to add. Mr A did 
not provide any further comment or evidence following on from my provisional decision. As 
such, for the reasons set out above, I conclude that it would not be fair and reasonable to 
ask Monzo to reimburse Mr As losses, and so this complaint is not upheld. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and Monzo Bank Ltd are not required to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman