DRN-4266017
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement 
with Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa). 
What happened
In July 2022, Mr S took out a hire purchase agreement with Zopa for a used car. This car 
was just over eight years old and had covered around 59,000 miles. The cash price was 
£18,995. 
Mr S says that after bringing the car home he noticed a knocking noise coming from the 
steering. He says he spoke to a mobile mechanic, who told him the noise was coming from 
the steering rack. Mr S says he made further enquiries and was shocked to discover 
replacing the steering rack could cost between £600 - £4,500.
In August 2022 Mr S complained about this to the supplying dealer and his credit broker. He 
sent them a copy of an invoice hed got from the mobile mechanic, which said:
Found play in rack adv replacement rack or repair.
Mr S says the dealer collected the car from him on 17 August 2022 and had it inspected. He 
says the dealer then told him there was nothing wrong with the car. 
Zopa arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car in October 2022, before 
issuing their final response to Mr S. They said based on the independent engineers report, 
they didnt think the car had been of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr S referred his complaint to us. After looking into what had 
happened, our investigator didnt agree that the car had been of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied. So, she thought it was fair for Mr S to reject the car and receive a refund of the 
deposit hed paid.
The investigator thought Zopa should refund the payments Mr S had made for the car since 
1 September 2022, when hed stopped using it. She said Zopa should also reimburse Mr S 
the £50 hed paid for the mobile mechanics report and pay him £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr S accepted our investigators proposals for how his complaint should be resolved. But he 
said he felt £100 compensation was minimal for the inconvenience hed been put to. 
Zopa disagreed with our investigators view. Ill summarise their main points:
The car was just over eight years old, so it would already be subject to wear and tear. 
The independent engineer agreed there was a slight knocking noise, but this was 
considered commensurate with the cars age and mileage. Zopa were not persuaded 
that this noise was a fault thats severe enough to be deemed unsatisfactory quality.
Although the diagnostic report dated August 2022 states play was found, this is 
insufficient for commenting on whether the car had been of satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied to Mr S. The independent engineer is qualified to comment on such 
matters and holds an unbiased opinion. A third-party garage is far more likely to find 
fault in a vehicle, given that theyre likely to get business for completing repairs. 
There wasnt enough evidence to say the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Mr S. A steering rack suffers wear and tear over time. It can break 
suddenly, for example if the driver goes over a pot hole. The evidence Zopa have 
seen suggests the car was in Mr Ss possession for around three weeks before he 
reported a problem to the dealer. So, the problem could have occurred after he got it.
Zopa asked for an ombudsman to review the case, so its been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, saying:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr Ss complaint is about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can 
look into this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of those goods is 
satisfactory. It goes on to explain that things like safety, durability and freedom from minor 
defects can all be aspects of the quality of goods. 
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. It seems likely that in a case involving a car, the relevant 
circumstances a court would take into account might include things like its age, mileage, and 
history.
In this case, I bear in mind that the car was just over eight years old and had covered around 
59,000 miles when it was supplied to Mr S. It cost £18,995. Whilst I appreciate Mr S feels 
thats a lot of money, Im aware that its significantly less than the car wouldve cost when it 
was new. I dont think a reasonable person would have the same standards for this car as 
they would a newer one with less mileage. 
I dont think a buyer would expect the car to be in perfect condition - I think theyd probably 
expect some parts to have suffered a bit of wear and tear. But I think theyd still expect it to 
be free from anything other than minor faults when it was supplied - and to be able to drive 
the car for a reasonable amount of time without major issues.
Was there a fault with the car?
Mr S and Zopa have put forward evidence theyve obtained, giving very different opinions as 
to whether the car had a fault that needed repairing. Where evidence is conflicting, as it is 
here, I have to decide whats most likely. Ive seen a copy of an invoice Mr S obtained from a mobile mechanic, dated 6 August 2022. 
This reports play in rack and advises Mr S to get it replaced or repaired. Ive seen no 
further information as to how severe the mobile mechanic considered this problem to be, or 
how soon he thought a repair would be needed.
I understand the supplying dealer arranged for the car to be inspected on 31 August 2022. I 
havent seen the report of that inspection. The evidence Zopa have provided show they 
didnt think either that report, or the invoice Mr S had obtained from the mobile mechanic, 
gave them enough detail to decide how they should deal with Mr Ss complaint. 
Zopa have provided a more detailed report from an independent engineer, dated 5 October 
2022. It records the car to have travelled 60,223 miles by that point. The report says: 
The vehicle does not require any repairs carrying out, there were no faults found with the 
vehicle.
I can understand Mr S being worried that the noise hed heard might mean the car wasnt 
safe to drive, especially as he was intending to take his young children out in it. Ive reviewed 
what the independent engineers report said about this. It says:
On jacking the vehicle up at the offside and nearside front, there was no play in the 
steering rack, no play or wear in any of the steering or suspension components.
On virtual inspection of the universal joint on the steering column, this showed no play in 
the points and all appeared to be all in a serviceable condition.
Before we started the vehicle, we checked the steering column and control for any free 
play or knocking. A very slight knocking was heard when rocking the steering from side to 
side. This would be considered normal when the power steering is not operational.
When rocking the steering wheel with the power assistance operational, there was what 
appeared to be a slight knocking noise, which was reduced significantly and we could 
barely hear any noises and this would be considered normal.
Due to the level of detail provided here, I find the independent engineers report to be more 
persuasive than the opinion Mr S obtained from the mobile mechanic. I note the independent 
engineer said there was no play or wear in the steering rack or steering components, and 
that he considered the slight knocking noise to be normal. 
After carefully weighing up the evidence both parties have provided about the steering issue, 
on balance, Im not persuaded theres a fault that needs to be repaired. Ive considered 
whether theres any other supporting evidence that might suggest a problem was developing 
at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. 
Ive seen evidence showing Mr S signed the finance agreement on 6 July 2022. The MOT 
history shows the car was MOT-tested the following day; at which time it had covered 59,187 
miles. It was recorded to have passed with no advisories. Mr S told us he collected the car 
three days later, on 10 July 2022. 
Advisories show components that have signs of wear but arent yet defective. Although there 
arent any rules about this, Id generally expect to see an advisory if the MOT tester had 
found play in the steering components. So, I consider it unlikely that there was play in the 
steering rack when Mr S collected the car.I appreciate Mr S paid a lot of money for this car, and Im sorry to hear hes disappointed 
with it. But I have to bear in mind that it was just over eight years old when he got it. I dont 
think a slight noise would mean it wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mr S.
I said I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint, based on the information Id seen so far. I 
invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider.
Responses to my provisional decision
Zopa said they accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
Mr S disagreed. He said the car had covered almost 59,200 miles when he picked it up, and 
that hed driven it over 380 miles home from the supplying dealer. He said the dealer had 
driven it back to their premises, adding further mileage. He provided a photo of the 
odometer, showing 59,898 miles. 
Mr S said hed never seen a copy of the dealers report  and that Zopas report had 
confirmed the car was still making a knocking noise. 
Mr S said that, whilst Zopa were reviewing his complaint, the dealer had readvertised the car 
for sale for £1,000 more than hed paid for it. He felt theyd done this to try to cover their 
costs. He stressed that hed still been paying for the car. He provided copies of internet 
reviews about the dealer. He said this showed a lot of people are getting these sorts of 
problems - and that the dealer needed looking at.
Mr S said the dealer was now attempting to charge him storage fees for the car. He provided 
further evidence about this. He said the dealer hadnt provided any real proof of the costs 
they were claiming from him. 
Mr S asked about his next steps. He said the car is currently 360 miles away from his home 
address and he doesnt have another vehicle to get him there. He asked for the car to be 
delivered back to him with no added costs for him to pay. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to both parties for taking the time to respond to my provisional decision. But Ive 
seen no additional information that persuades me I should change my mind. 
Mr S has raised a number of concerns about the supplying dealers behaviour. But that isnt 
something the Financial Ombudsman Service can look into for him. Our role is to consider 
his complaint about Zopa. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, Ive looked at the record of the MOT test carried 
out on 7 July 2022. This was three days before Mr S collected the car. As it passed that 
MOT test with no advisories, I consider it unlikely that a problem was developing in any of 
the steering components at that time.
The independent engineers report records the car to have travelled 60,223 miles by the time it was inspected on 5 October 2022. The engineer said there was still no need for any repair 
work to the car. Although he noticed a slight knocking noise, he considered it to be normal. 
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that the car had a fault that needed to be repaired. 
Ive seen evidence showing Zopa advised Mr S to pick the car up from the supplying dealer 
or hed be liable to pay storage fees. Our records confirm that he contacted us in November 
2022, saying Zopa kept chasing him to collect it. 
Although I sympathise with the situation Mr S now finds himself in, I dont think Zopa needed 
to do anything more here. It wouldnt be fair for me to direct Zopa to deliver the car back to 
him at no cost.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman