DRN-2044480
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Ms B. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2004 alongside a store credit account. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. AXA didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint. This is because, when the PPI started, Ms B had 
suffered for many years from a significant medical condition. The PPI wouldnt have covered 
Ms B for claims arising from this pre-existing condition, and so I think the PPI would have 
been of limited potential use to her. I think its unlikely this limitation was drawn to her 
attention by AXA. And, if it had been, I think shes likely to have decided it wasnt worth 
paying for the PPI.  
AXA has said it doesnt think this limitation would have put Ms B off taking the PPI. But I 
dont agree. She has described the serious affect the condition has had on her life. And I 
understand complications can arise, which wouldnt have been covered by the PPI.   
Putting things right
AXA France IARD should put Ms B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Ms B would have owed when she closed her credit 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms B owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms B would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until the point when Ms B 
wouldve owed something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Ms B would have owed each month without PPI  Ms B 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms B 
wouldve owed AXA something on her credit. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.AXA should tell Ms B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Ms B that relates to this PPI sale, 
that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint. I require AXA France IARD 
to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman