DRN-2684647
The complaint
Mr E complains that a used car he got with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) provided by
Blue Motor Finance Limited (BMF) was of unsatisfactory quality. He feels misled by
the supplying dealer and hes unhappy with the way that BMF responded to his complaint.
What happened
Mr E got the car in February 2019. It broke down in October the same year. Mr E was told 
the timing chain had failed and repairs were uneconomical so he paid off the finance and 
sold the car back to the supplying dealer. He was unhappy that repairs werent covered 
under a warranty he got with the car and felt he had lost out financially, so he complained to 
BMF.
BMF says its not responsible for the warranty - as that wasnt supplied under the HPA - and
its for Mr E to show the car was faulty at the point of supply, but he hasnt. BMF considers it
shouldnt have to do anything further.
Our investigator isnt persuaded theres enough evidence to show that this car was of
unsatisfactory quality when Mr E got it. Hes not persuaded a misrepresentation was
made. Hes satisfied that BMF didnt provide a warranty under the HPA. And he
recommends the complaint should not be upheld.
Mr E doesnt think thats a fair outcome so the matter was passed to an ombudsman for
review. Mr E says (in summary)
the HPA says the car cost £3,500, which he understood was made up of £3,000
for the car, £100 for a Bluetooth system and £400 for a 12 month warranty, so the
warranty was paid for under the HPA and provided by BMF;
the dealer told him the car came with a comprehensive third party warranty but
failed to arrange that, and he would not have accepted a car of this age and
mileage without a bumper-to-bumper warranty, so the car and the finance were
mis-sold;
he couldnt source a warranty after sale due to the cars age so he paid off the
finance and sold the car back to the dealer, hes out of pocket for the
balance of the finance and other costs and he wants BMF to provide a refund and
pay compensation for stress and inconvenience.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to the parties dated 8 February 2021. Ive summarised my 
provisional findings below. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. BMF 
supplied this car to Mr E under a HPA and Im looking at BMFs obligations arising out of that 
finance agreement. I dont apply the law but Im required to take relevant law into account. 
Im satisfied BMF was required to ensure (amongst other things) that this car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). 
satisfactory quality
What amounts to satisfactory quality varies depending on individual circumstances, but its
generally considered reasonable to take age, cost and mileage at the point of supply into
account in the case of a used car. The car Mr E got here was approximately 12 years old,
cost about £3,500 and had around 77,000 miles on the clock. I think a reasonable person
would accept that a car like this would probably have some worn parts which would need
replacing or repairing sooner or later  and thats reflected in the lower price paid compared
to a brand new vehicle.
Mr E had the car for about eight months and travelled around 13,000 miles when it broke
down. Based on what the parties have said, it appears to be common ground that the timing
chain failed, at about 90,000 miles, but theres dispute about the cause of the failure. Mr E
says the timing chain was defective whereas the dealer says there were signs of oil
starvation when the car was checked after the breakdown and it wasnt maintained properly.
Ive seen no documentary evidence in support of either argument. 
On balance, I think its unlikely that Mr E would have been able to drive this car as far as he
did after supply if it was faulty when he got it. I accept a timing chain can last longer but I 
think that depends of a variety of factors, including how a vehicle is serviced and maintained
throughout. Given the age and mileage of this car at the point of supply, I think its more 
likely than not the problem here was the result of wear and tear. Im satisfied that BMF isnt 
responsible for issues that arise over time due to wear and tear. And I cant fairly find it 
supplied a car unsatisfactory quality, in this situation.
misrepresentation
Mr E says he paid for a warranty when he got this car using credit provided under the HPA
so BMF supplied the warranty. For the reasons Ive set out below, I am not persuaded thats
right. But, I can consider any representations made during the course of pre-sale 
negotiations between Mr E and the dealer in this complaint against BMF  under section 56 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
In broad terms, for me to find there was a misrepresentation, I would need to be satisfied
that Mr E was told something untrue and he relied on that when he decided to acquire this
particular car and take out the finance. Mr E says the dealer told him this warranty cost £400 
and provided 12 months cover from a third party which was comprehensive enough to cover 
the timing chain here - and he wouldnt have accepted the car without such extensive cover. 
The dealer doesnt dispute that the car was sold with a warranty but says this was a £180 
standard six month warranty with a claim limit of £500. 
I cant be certain what was discussed exactly between Mr E and the salesperson. I think its
reasonable to look at the paperwork completed at the relevant time in this situation - as
thats likely to contain the best evidence of what was agreed. I checked the finance 
documents Mr E signed and theres no mention of a warranty. The HPA says Mr E paid a 
deposit of just over £200 towards the £3,500 cost of the car and BMF provided credit 
totalling just under £3,300. Mr E doesnt appear to dispute the amount paid by way of 
deposit  if the HPA recorded this inaccurately, Id expect him to have said so at the time. 
The sale invoice says Mr E paid the dealer £500 cash and a warranty was purchased at a 
cost of £180. From the evidence I have, I think its likely that just over £200 of the £500 was 
paid to BMF for the finance deposit and the balance was paid to the dealer for Bluetooth and 
a £180 standard warranty. 
The dealer seems to accept that this warranty was originally supposed to be provided by athird party. For reasons Im not clear on, a third party warranty wasnt put in place. But, Mr E
has confirmed that the dealer undertook any repairs required over the first six months at no 
cost to him. I think it was probably an oversight that the third party warranty wasnt activated 
so the dealer stepped and, in effect, provided the same level of cover  as the standard 
£180 party warranty. Im satisfied this means Mr E got the cover he paid for, in practical 
terms. And Ive seen nothing to show he was placed at a disadvantage because this work 
wasnt carried out under a third party warranty.
I think most people usually take a number of different factors into account when deciding on
a car  including price, age, model and specification. If the specific warranty provider and
particularly comprehensive warranty cover were key factors in Mr Es decision to accept this
car and take out the finance, Id expect him to have checked that at the outset. I am not
persuaded he did so, on the evidence I have at the moment. Mr E told us he didnt see any 
warranty paperwork when he got the car. I appreciate he says he asked the dealer for this 
and it wasnt supplied. But, Im satisfied Mr E is familiar with vehicle warranties - he told us 
he had several in the past. I think he should have been reasonably aware that different 
warranty providers offer very different terms and conditions. And I cant reasonably find this 
was of particular importance to Mr E, when he was prepared to go ahead without checking 
the specific terms on offer beforehand. 
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not persuaded the dealer misrepresented the warranty Mr E
got here, in material terms. And, even if Id reached a different view about that, Im not
satisfied that Mr E was induced to accept this particular car and take out the finance due to a
misrepresentation. It follows Im unable to reasonably require BMF to provide a refund on
those grounds. 
I realise Mr E is really unhappy with the service he got from the dealer after supply and he
feels that BMF should have done more to help. I understand his frustration but Im unable to
hold BMF responsible for the dealers after sales service. I have very little detail of the 
arrangement Mr E reached with the dealer when he returned the car. But I think it was his 
decision to end the finance early and accept the dealers offer to buy the car back and help 
him into another vehicle. I understand hes unhappy that the car was apparently repaired 
later and sold on - but thats not something I can reasonably hold BMF responsible for. 
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further
comments or information by the 8 March 2021. I explained that I would look at all of the 
available evidence and make my final decision after that date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The time set for the parties to respond to my provisional decision has now passed. BMF 
accepts my provisional findings and Mr E did not reply or make any further submissions. I 
see no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional conclusions, in the circumstances. 
For the reasons Ive given, I am not persuaded that BMF did something wrong here and I am 
not satisfied that there are fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint. I realise this 
decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr E but he doesnt have to accept what 
Ive said  in which case it remains open to him to pursue the matter by any alternative 
means available. 
My final decisionMy decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021. 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman