DRN-1343172
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AmEx) suspended his 
charge card without notice, even though he was using it in line with his agreement. AmEx 
then passed the debt to a collection agent though hed made a payment onto the card. 
What happened
Mr M lives overseas. He held an AmEx charge card, which was offered to him through a 
promotion linked to his bank. He said hed hardly used the AmEx card, as theres limited 
acceptance of AmEx where he lives. But in February 2019 he arranged to access AmExs 
cash advance facility. He said he wanted this so he could use the card.
Mr M said he was using the card in line with the agreement hed made with AmEx, and was 
only withdrawing the amounts it had said he could take. But then AmEx put his card on 
temporary hold. It said it needed more information from him, and Mr M says he was told his 
card had been used for purposes other than those set out in his agreement 
AmEx told Mr M it would be cancelling his card and referring the debt to a collections agency 
if he didnt pay. Mr M then paid, based on a payment plan he proposed. So he thought AmEx 
had acted unlawfully by cancelling his card. Mr M said AmEx never responded to his 
proposed payment plan, but hed made his payment anyway.
Mr M wanted us to look into whether AmEx had the right to decide how he spends his 
money. He said Amex should say why his account was put on hold without warning or 
explanation. He felt judged in conversations with AmEx. He was concerned about data 
sharing between his bank and AmEx. And he said AmEx shouldnt have cancelled his 
account because he made a payment before its stated deadline. 
AmEx said it asked Mr M for more financial information, and suspended his card, in 
response to a marked change in how he was using the card. When Mr M didnt send this 
extra information, and didnt make his payments, AmEx cancelled his card. 
AmEx told us it treats its cash advance arrangements as more of an emergency facility, 
although this isnt written down anywhere. But it doesnt think that means it has made a 
mistake here. Amex set out that having no pre-set spending limit doesnt mean that Mr M 
can spend as much as he likes on the card. And it said that Mr M wasnt guaranteed 
unlimited withdrawals. Amex accepted that it asked direct questions about what Mr M was 
spending the money on, to find out why Mr M was taking out so much cash. 
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for AmEx to have reviewed Mr Ms spending, 
when his card went from near-dormancy to having a sudden increase in cash withdrawal. He 
didnt think it was AmExs fault if Mr M had misunderstood the terms of the cash facility. 
Our investigator said Mr M was required to pay his bill in full each month. He thought action 
to close the account was only taken because Mr M hadnt paid his bill.Our investigator felt it was more likely that Mr M was in financial difficulties before starting to 
use the cash withdrawal facility, rather than that those difficulties were caused by the facility 
being withdrawn. He said AmEx wasnt obliged to accept a proposed payment plan from Mr 
M. It could still close his account even if hed made a small payment. 
Our investigator understood why Mr M felt judged by questions about how he was spending 
the money hed taken out. But he thought all AmEx was trying to do was to assess risk, and 
check the account was being used in line with the terms and conditions. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. 
Mr M also expressed concerns about information that may have been passed between 
AmEx and his bank. He thought AmEx might have misled him about that. Our investigator 
said Mr M could take that concern up with the Information Commissioners Office, who would 
be better placed than our service to consider concerns about data protection.  
Mr M replied to our investigator. He said AmEx had told him it would cancel his card if he 
made no payment before early June, and he had made a payment. 
Our investigator said it was clear from the email chain that AmEx meant a much, much 
larger payment, which Mr M hadn't made. He acknowledged AmEx could have told Mr M his 
offered plan was declined, but he didnt think that made a difference to the outcome. 
Mr M said AmEx should have made clear that full payment was the only option. And he said 
our investigator shouldnt assume that he wouldnt have cooperated with AmEx to set up a 
payment plan, if it had got in touch with him. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. Because Mr M didnt agree with our investigator, the 
case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I agree with our investigator that this 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ill explain why I think that.
Mr M had an AmEx charge card. He had to pay the balance off in full each month. There 
was no pre-determined spending limit, but that doesnt mean theres no limit at all. AmEx 
makes an assessment as the card is used. 
Mr M arranged with AmEx that he could use the card to take out cash. He has an email from 
AmEx saying how much he can take out, and when. But, like our investigator, I dont think 
that means AmEx committed to allowing Mr M to use this card to the maximum amount set 
out in the email. 
Although AmEx doesnt set this out in writing, it seems to treat the use of a cash advance as 
something more for emergencies. I think it wouldve been more helpful if Mr M had been 
clearly told that. But I do think the terms and conditions that Mr M signed make clear that 
AmEx might refuse to make a cash advance, and that it wont usually give any warning of 
that. Or it might suspend the cash advance facility altogether, if it thinks a customer wont be 
able to pay it back. 
AmEx pointed out that Mr M had hardly used his card, then he suddenly started using it 
extensively for cash advances. I think it was reasonable for AmEx to ask Mr M for more information to show he could pay that money back, and for it to stop him from using the card 
while it waited for that information. 
Mr M said stopping the card put him in financial difficulties. But he hasnt explained why. 
Without that explanation, I couldnt decide that stopping the card actually caused Mr Ms 
financial difficulties. I think thats unlikely to have been the root cause.
Mr M asked whether AmEx can decide how he spends his money, and said he found 
AmExs questioning intrusive. But I think its likely AmEx was just trying to find out whether 
Mr M could pay the money back. I can understand why Mr M might find these questions 
uncomfortable and intrusive, but I dont think it was wrong for AmEx to ask him questions.
Mr M stopped paying his monthly bills in full. AmEx then wrote to him saying it would cancel 
his card if he didnt pay. I think AmEx made clear that he needed to pay over €10,000 to 
avoid the card being cancelled. Mr M didnt pay that, he told AmEx he couldnt afford to. I 
dont think AmEx did anything wrong when it then cancelled his card. 
Mr M thinks AmEx shouldve acknowledged his offer of a payment plan. I think it wouldve 
been better if it had done. But I also dont think this wouldve made any difference to the 
outcome. I think its likely that AmEx would simply have told Mr M it was still going to cancel 
his card. I dont think AmEx needs to pay Mr M any compensation because it didnt do that.
I note our investigator suggested Mr M could pursue his concerns about data protection with 
the Information Commissioners Office. Because of that, I havent commented on those 
concerns here.  Otherwise, Ive considered Mr Ms complaint as a whole, and I dont think 
that AmEx has been unreasonable or unfair. So I wont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman