DRN-3712922
The complaint
Mr K has complained about his motor insurer Alwyn Insurance Company Limited as it hasnt 
made a decision on his claim made following an accident he had in December 2020.
What happened
Mr K had an accident and made a claim to Alwyn. It began investigating it. Mr K felt Alwyn 
wasnt handling it well in general, that it wasnt being progressed quickly enough and that he 
wasnt being kept up to date with what was happening. Mr K made a complaint to us. 
Alwyn told Mr K and us that it was still investigating the claim. And that it couldnt yet make a 
decision on it. In the relevant circumstances, our Investigator felt that was fair and 
reasonable. Regarding concerns Mr K had raised about how Alwyn had handled the claim, 
our Investigator didnt think Alwyn had failed Mr K. 
Mr K was unhappy. He asked for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This claim has gone on for a long time. But I can understand why Alwyn hasnt made a 
decision yet. I can see that recently a solicitor acting for Alwyn has shared with Mr K some of 
the concerns it has. Im not assessing those concerns here as Alwyn hasnt yet made a 
decision about how they affect the claim  if they affect it at all. But Im satisfied they do give 
it reasonable cause to complete further enquiries and/or to wait for the linked but separate 
court claim for personal injury to progress and/or conclude first. In the circumstances then, 
the delay in the claim outcome is not unreasonable. 
Mr K said he wasnt sent policy documents when he asked for copies. Alwyn has satisfied 
me that copy documents were provided. In any event, I also understand the reason Mr K 
wanted to see his policy was because he wanted to know if he could have a courtesy car. 
But Alwyn told him he couldnt as it had already determined that his car was a total loss and 
a courtesy car would only be provided under the cover in the event of a repair. I dont think 
Alwyn failed him in this respect.
Alwyn did not send Mr K his subject access request documents within the required 
timeframe. That is a failure by Alwyn. But this service doesnt always require an insurer to 
compensate for every instance of failure. Thats because we accept that by the very nature 
of an insurer/policyholder relationship, frustrations can sometimes arise. So we usually only 
award compensation where distress and inconvenience, beyond some general frustration is 
caused, or where the failure impacts other things. Here I think the failure caused Mr K some 
frustration only and that the course of his claim wasnt impacted by the failure. As such Im 
not requiring Alwyn to pay Mr K compensation in this respect.
I know Mr K called Alwyn on a number of occasions to ask for updates. All Alwyn could tell 
Mr K was that investigations were on-going. I know this was frustrating for Mr K, 
understandably he wanted to know what was going on. But, given the recent update Alwyns 
solicitor provided to Mr K, I think it was reasonable for Alwyn to say little to Mr K when 
updating him. And even if Alwyn had been pro-active about updating Mr K, rather than him 
having to chase it, he would still have been dissatisfied that he wasnt being told anything.
I understand that Mr K thinks he might be being treated differently by Alwyn on account of 
his ethnicity. Ive not seen anything that makes me think that might be the case. Alwyn 
clearly has concerns about the claim and I can understand it having those concerns. Im 
satisfied it is those concerns that have dictated the course of the claim and how Mr K has 
been dealt with by Alwyn.
Mr K told our Investigator that he wanted all the calls hed had with Alwyn to be listened to. 
Our investigator advised Mr K that wasnt possible but if Mr K had any concerns about any 
particular call he could tell us and wed listen to that/those call/s. Mr K didnt respond to our 
Investigators enquiry. Whilst I know Mr K thinks he has been treated unfairly by Alwyn, that 
is his complaint and one which, at least on the face of it, he has to justify. It is not for this 
service to hunt for evidence which supports his concerns. Rather we are an impartial dispute 
resolution provider, and we do that by assessing the details and evidence provided to us. On 
that note, Alwyn did provide some calls to us. In those calls I think Alwyn handled things in a 
fair and reasonable manner. 
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Alwyn Insurance Company 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman