DRN-4219192
The complaint
Mr R complains American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) failed to properly inform 
him that his credit card account was being closed, affecting his accumulated reward points.
What happened
Mr R says he has two credit card accounts with Amex, one he hasnt used for some period 
of time but held a considerable amount of reward points hed earned over the preceding 
years. Mr R says he received a notification from Amex informing him it was closing this credit 
card account to protect him from fraud, but he only had 30 days in which to use the 
significant reward points he had accumulated. 
Mr R says when he complained to say he hadnt been notified of this previously he was told 
it was detailed in the last two credit card statements hed been sent. Mr R says on checking 
his statements these notifications were there but not prominently, and he doesnt tend to 
scrutinise his statements as his credit card account has been inactive for some time and 
simply kept open to maintain his accrued reward points. Mr R says he was forced into 
utilising the points within a 30-day period but not in the way he intended. Mr R felt Amex 
could have communicated this matter much more clearly and by other means and feels it 
should now as a gesture, pay him the equivalent of 10% of the points value which he 
estimates at £180. 
Amex says it sent Mr R notifications via his monthly statements in August 2022 and 
September 2022 of the impending termination of his credit card account, due to inactivity 
unless he chose to use the card to make a purchase to stop this closure. Amex says this 
type of notification is in line with its terms and conditions. Amex says it also sent Mr R a 
letter on 7 October 2022 informing of the closure of the account and reminding him he had 
30 days to utilise his accumulated reward points.
Amex says Mr R wasnt able to transfer these accumulated points to his other Amex card as 
this card operated under a different reward scheme, but he was able to transfer the reward 
points to a partner airline business club type account. 
Mr R wasnt happy with Amexs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Amex had fairly and clearly informed Mr R of the credit card account closure 
and it had acted in line with its terms and conditions. The investigator felt Amex had given Mr 
R fair warning of the closure and that he had 30 days to make use of his accumulated 
reward points. The investigator didnt feel Amex needed to provide a separate form of 
notification of the proposed closure of his credit card account, as this was detailed in his 
monthly statements which was Mr Rs responsibility to read. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr R to learn the credit card account he 
held with Amex holding substantial reward points, was to be closed and he only had a limited 
period of time to use these. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Amex gave Mr R clear and reasonable 
notice, it was closing his Amex reward point credit card account.
Mr Rs complaint centres around the fact even though Amex had given notice of its intention 
to close his reward point credit card account in his monthly bank statements, these werent 
clear and obvious and in any event as the card was dormant for some time he didnt 
scrutinise these monthly statements. Mr R believes Amex should have sent him a separate 
notification of its intended actions and because it hadnt, he was forced into utilising the 
points sooner than he wished and not in the manner he intended.
I understand the issues Mr R raises here but Im not fully persuaded by his argument. I say 
this because I have seen the notifications that Mr R was sent within his monthly credit card 
statements in August 2022 and September 2022, and these notifications are printed in bold 
type and clearly explain what actions Mr R needed to take to avoid the account closure. 
Mr R has implied that given the fact this credit card account hadnt been used for many 
months he didnt perhaps fully read them. While I understand this point, I cant hold Amex at 
fault for that as it does remain Mr Rs responsibility to read all communications sent to him 
by Amex, relating to his credit card account with them. Afterall from time to time its possible 
the terms of this credit card account may well change and its important that Mr R is familiar 
with any such changes, as was the case here.  
While I understand by the time Mr R had realised his credit card account was closing and 
that he only had 30 days to utilise the accumulated points hed earned, my understanding is 
those points have been transferred to a partner airline business club account, so its fair to 
say Mr R has still received some benefit here, albeit perhaps not how he may have originally 
intended to use them. 
So, while Mr R feels Amex should have perhaps communicated this matter differently, for 
example a separate letter or email, thats not part of its process and this is in line with its 
terms and conditions. Although Mr R may not agree I cant tell Amex it must adapt or change 
its standard processes for this particular set of circumstances.
While Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Amex. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 Barry White
Ombudsman