DRN-3983138
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as A, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as Cashplus Bank) wont refund a transaction it didnt make. 
Mr E, who is a director of A, brings the complaint on As behalf. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Cashplus accepted this was an unauthorised transaction. However, in line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund it because it asserts Mr E 
failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep As 
personalised security details safe.
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded Cashplus has 
shown Mr E failed with gross negligence. Or, in other words, that he acted with very 
significant carelessness; seriously disregarded an obvious risk; or acted so far below 
what a reasonable person wouldve done. Ill explain why.
Mr E received a call from someone who claimed to be from Cashplus. He said he 
checked their number matched the one on the back of his card and they knew 
several pieces of personal, sensitive information about him. So I can see why he 
trusted they were from his genuine bank  I think lots of people wouldve done. 
Mr E recalled how he was told Ls account had been hacked, so theyd need him to 
follow their instructions to re-register it  in fact, the fraudsters were registering Ls 
account to their own device to make a payment. From what Ive been shown of the 
steps to do this, Ive not been persuaded he seriously disregarded an obvious risk by 
following their instructions, particularly given his understandable trust in the caller 
and desire to protect Ls account. 
Mr E was also asked to enter a one time password on his keypad that he received by 
text. The message said: Cashplus: Your One Time Password  DO NOT SHARE 
with anyone! This should only be entered on-screen when prompted. Your 
verification code is: XXXX.
Mr E said he was reassured he wasnt asked to share it with this caller, but instead to 
enter it on his keypad. Cashplus submit this isnt the same as been prompted on 
screen. But the exact wording is entered on-screen when prompted. And Mr Es 
keypad is a screen on his phone, and he was prompted by the caller. So I can see 
how this made sense to him at the time  indeed, I think lots of people wouldve 
acted the same way he did. 
Ive also reflected on how the message isnt related to a payment and how it came 
through from his genuine bank when hed been primed to expect it. So I think its 
understandable that everything fitted together for Mr E in the moment, and why he 
felt comfortable following their instructions. 
In saying that, Ive considered Cashpluss point that as a business customer, it 
expected more from Mr E and that he shouldve realised what he was being asked to 
do was unusual. But, even as a business, its unlikely hed have come across this 
situation many times before  so I can understand why he wouldnt have known what 
was and wasnt usual to have been worried or suspicious. And while I appreciate 
Cashplus sends education to its customers about scams, Im not convinced that 
failing to remember generic information in the heat of the moment made his actions 
very significantly careless. 
It strikes me this was a convincing, cleverly orchestrated scam, by someone who had 
likely prepared and researched how Cashplus worked. Taking this all into account, I 
dont think Cashplus has shown Mr E failed with gross negligence. So I conclude A 
isnt liable for the transaction and Cashplus needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
I understand Cashplus has already refunded the amount that caused A to enter its 
overdraft. So it must also refund As remaining losses from this unauthorised 
transaction. 
As this remaining amount was As own money that its been out of pocket for, 
Cashplus must pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the 
unauthorised transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
 
Cashplus must also refund any interest and charges, along with removing any 
negative reporting to As credit file, that were caused by the transaction.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold As complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
trading as Cashplus Bank must follow what Ive set out under putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman