DRN-3208861
The complaint
Ms O complains Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Limited (Fortegra) unfairly declined 
her claim on her insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of Fortegra involved throughout the claim but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Fortegra.
What happened
Ms O bought a car and also a Tyre & Alloy Wheel insurance policy with Fortegra. Ms O 
made a claim on her insurance policy for damage on the alloy wheels of her car. 
Fortegra declined her claim as it said some of the damage had occurred over a period of 
time and therefore was excluded in the policy.
Ms O said that the damage and should be covered by the policy. 
As Ms O was not happy with Fortegra she brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and felt that Fortegra 
had acted fairly in declining her claim under the terms of her policy.
As Ms O is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at Ms Os claim to see if Fortegra has treated her fairly. The claim was for all four of 
the alloy wheels on her car.
 
The wheels were examined by Fortegras assessors and it found the following.
Corrosion present on all four wheels which it deemed could only occur over a period of 
time. 
Evidence of more than one occasion where the wheels were subject to impact.
Fortegra said that it was clear the damage was not reported within the policy timescales of 
30 days and that corrosion was not covered by the policy.
I looked at the images of the wheels and these confirm there was corrosion present and 
there are multiple areas of damage.
In the policy terms and conditions it states it covers both accidental and malicious damage. 
Within the policy terms and conditions it also states what is not covered. This includes: 
 ii. Any Alloy Wheel or Tyre damage which is not reported within thirty (30) days of the Date 
of Loss.
- iii. Any Alloy Wheel or Tyre damage where the damage has been accumulated over an 
extended period, which We or the Administrator deem to be wear and tear.
- xv. Any damage to an Alloy Wheel showing evidence of rust or corrosion or any defect 
which is not deemed to be caused by Accidental or Malicious damage.
Fortegra declined the claim as it said that there was corrosion evident on each of the wheels 
and that as corrosion builds up over a period of time it cannot be considered to be damage. 
It also said the claim had not been reported within the policy timescales of 30 days.
Ms O said that delays to her reporting some of the damage were due to the Covid lockdown 
restrictions that had been in place at the time. She said these had impacted on the ability to 
operate normally. 
I have considered these comments and I understand that it has been a difficult time for both 
individuals and businesses alike. However, Fortegra were open and available to review 
claims during this period of time, so I cannot see any reason why Ms O could not have made 
her claim within the 30-day timescale.
Ms O added that some of the damage should be covered as it had occurred within the 
30-day time limit. However under the terms of the policy, as detailed in the extract point iii 
above, as the damage has accumulated over an extended period it is not covered.
Therefore, I dont uphold Ms Os complaint and feel that Fortegra fairly assessed her claim. I 
know this will be disappointing to her, but I think Fortegra acted within the terms of the policy 
when declining her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman