DRN-4264536
The complaint
Mr R complains about Aviva Insurance Limited and their decision to decline the claim he 
made on his insurance policy after he discovered extensive water damage in his caravan.
What happened
Mr R owned a caravan on a caravan park. And he held a caravan insurance policy, 
underwritten by Aviva, to cover his caravan which he rented out as a holiday home. Aviva 
instructed an agent to handle claims and complaints on their behalf. As this agent was 
working for Aviva, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by Aviva or their 
agent as Aviva throughout the decision.
Unfortunately, in December 2022, an employee at the caravan park noticed water flooding 
from the underside of Mr Rs caravan. They made Mr R aware of this and, after further 
inspection, significant water damage was found within the caravan itself which required 
substantial repair. So, Mr R contacted Aviva to make a claim on his policy.
Due to the extent of the damage, Aviva instructed a third-party loss adjustor, who Ill refer to 
as S, to inspect the caravan and produce a report. This report was provided to Aviva in 
early April 2023, explaining that S had consulted a caravan specialist who stated the level of 
damage would only have been caused with the stopcock left on.
So, based on this information, Aviva declined the claim. And they referred Mr R to the terms 
and conditions of the policy which explained any claim for water damage caused when the 
stopcock was left on would be excluded. Mr R was unhappy with this decision, so he raised 
a complaint.
Mr R didnt think the decision was fair, as he was sure hed turned the stopcock off as the 
policy stipulated. He thought the stopcock had most likely been turned on by someone else 
at the caravan park, likely children, and he didnt think it was fair to hold him responsible for 
this. So, he wanted Aviva to reverse their decision and accept the claim.
Aviva responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought their decision to decline 
the claim was fair, based on the policy terms and conditions considering the volume of water 
that wouldve been needed to damage the caravan to the extent it had. So, they didnt think 
they needed to do anything more. Mr R didnt agree, and he expressed his belief the 
damage was caused due to the way Aviva had handled a previous claim. But Aviva 
explained the previous claim related to an entirely different leak in a different location. So, 
their position remained the same. Mr R remained unhappy with this response, so he referred 
his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought Aviva were fair 
to rely on the findings of S report, which confirmed the stopcock was most likely left turned 
on. And, that it showed no sign of being tampered with. So, our investigator thought Aviva 
had acted fairly when declining the claim, based on the exclusion included within the policy 
terms. Because of this, they didnt think Aviva needed to do anything more.
Mr R didnt agree. He maintained his position that he had turned the stopcock off. And so, he 
didnt think Aviva were fair to rely on the policy exclusion and decline the claim. As Mr R 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr R. I recognise Mr R held 
the policy, underwritten by Aviva, to help assist him both practically and financially in a 
situation such as the one he found himself in. So, when Aviva made Mr R aware they 
wouldnt be accepting his claim, and he was left in a position of needing to cover the cost of 
substantial repairs himself, I can understand why hed be left feeling upset and frustrated. I 
also recognise how this would likely be made worse when Aviva made Mr R aware they 
were relying on an exclusion centred around the stopcock not being turned off, when Mr R 
believed he had indeed turned it off as per the policy requirements.
But for me to say Aviva should do something more, such as reverse their original claim 
decision, I first need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. So, Id need to be 
satisfied Aviva failed to act within the terms and conditions of the policy when declining the 
claim. Or, if I think they did act within these, Id need to be satisfied Aviva acted unfairly in 
some other way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful for me to set out 
what Ive been able to consider, and how. It is not my role, or the role of our service, to re-
underwrite Mr Rs claim as we do not have the expertise to do so. Instead, my role is to 
consider the actions Aviva have taken and decide whether they were fair and reasonable. 
And to decide this, Ive thought about what I think another insurer would most likely have 
done, in the same situation.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr R held. And these confirm that Aviva 
provided cover for Escape of water or oil from water tanks, pipes, equipment or fixed 
heating systems as well as Water freezing in tanks, equipment or pipes. In this situation, 
the escape of water was caused due to a burst heating exchanger within the boiler. So, 
based on the terms above, I do think the event that led to the leak was covered by the policy.
But, crucially, the policy goes onto explain that Aviva will not cover loss or damage in 
respect of any caravan which is empty or not in use during the period from 31st October until 
1st March in respect of escape of water from any tank apparatus or pipe unless the main stop 
to the caravan is turned off.
In this situation, the leak itself was noticed by a caravan park employee, as the caravan itself 
was empty. And the leak was noticed in December 2022, within the time frame stipulated 
within the term above. So, I think the policy makes it reasonably clear that, in the 
circumstances of Mr Rs leak, Aviva wouldnt cover a claim for any loss or damage if the 
stopcock isnt turned off.
I note Mr R says he did turn the stopcock off, and drain the system, before leaving the 
caravan empty. But Ive seen S report, which confirms after speaking to a caravan specialist that the volume of water required to damage the caravan to such an extent would only have 
been present if the stopcock had been turned on.
As Aviva appointed S to inspect the caravan to make a determination on the most likely 
cause of the damage, and S themselves spoke to a specialist who confirmed the stopcock 
wouldve needed to have been on, I dont think I can say Aviva were unfair or unreasonable 
to rely on the findings of the report S provided.
And, based on the findings of the report, I think its clear S felt the stopcock was most likely 
left turned on. So, because of this, I think Aviva acted within the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining the claim. And I think they acted fairly when reaching this decision, as 
they relied on expert opinion which I think any other insurer wouldve most likely done in the 
same situation. So, I dont think they need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr R was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mr R Ive 
considered his testimony regarding the stopcock at length. I dont doubt Mr R believes with 
certainty that he turned the stopcock off. And I can understand why Mr R may feel someone 
else couldve turned the stopcock back on, considering it was accessible freely from outside 
the caravan. But I dont think this means Aviva have done something wrong that means they 
should accept the claim.
Im satisfied Aviva did take Mr Rs concerns seriously, as I can see they asked S to comment 
on Mr Rs belief the stopcock had been turned on by someone else. And this is what I 
wouldve reasonably expect them to do.
 Ive seen S confirmed this couldve happened, but Ive seen S also confirmed the stopcock 
didnt appear to be tampered with. And S provided their own logic about Mr Rs explanation 
regarding children, as they explained they wouldve expected other stopcocks to have been 
turned on within the same vicinity and this wasnt the case. So, while I do recognise the 
financial impact this decision will have on Mr R, I dont think I can say Aviva have done 
anything wrong when declining the claim on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman