DRN-3651265
The complaint
Mr L and Miss S have complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) caused a water 
leak that damaged their home under a home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr L and Miss S contacted IPA when their heating system failed. IPA sent an engineer, who 
visited twice and replaced some parts. Following the second visit, Miss S found a water leak 
in her bathroom. IPA sent another engineer who found a leak from the shower pump flexible 
hose and carried out a repair. IPA also sent a loss adjuster who found a range of damage.
Following this and a complaint from Mr L and Miss S, IPA refused to accept liability for the 
consequential damage, but agreed to pay £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
When Mr L and Miss S contacted this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. He said 
the evidence showed it was likely the leak was caused by IPAs engineer. He said IPA 
should reimburse Mr L and Miss S the excess they had paid for their home insurance claim 
and reimburse the insurer for the cost of dealing with the claim. He said IPA should also pay 
Miss S one days loss of wages and pay £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Following this, IPA accepted liability for the damage to Mr L and Miss Ss home. Mr L and 
Miss S said they didnt think the compensation was enough. So, our investigator considered 
this further and said he thought IPA should increase the amount of compensation to £1,000 
because of the full circumstances of what had happened. IPA considered this and said the 
amount of compensation was too high. Mr L and Miss S said £1,000 compensation wasnt 
enough to reflect the circumstances of what had happened and the impact on them.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
IPA now accepts responsibility for the water leak that caused damage to Mr L and Miss Ss 
home. As a result, I will focus my decision on the impact and what IPA needs to do to put 
this right. However, Im aware of the full circumstances of what happened.
Mr L and Miss S made a home insurance claim to deal with the damage. They paid an 
excess for the claim. So, IPA needs to reimburse them the cost of the excess, which I 
understand is £500. There will also be a record of the claim and the costs involved. IPA 
should therefore contact Mr L and Miss Ss home insurer and take reasonable steps to 
reimburse the cost of the claim and, if possible, for it to be removed from the CUE database. 
Miss S also said she was up until the early hours of the morning dealing with the leak. As a 
result, she was unable to go into work the following day. This service doesnt usually require 
businesses to cover this type of loss. However, given this was to deal with a leak that IPA 
now accepts it caused, if there was a direct financial loss for which Miss S can provide 
evidence, I think IPA should pay for this. This would be if Miss S had to take unpaid 
emergency leave or similar. But IPA doesnt need to pay anything if, for example, Miss S 
used her annual leave entitlement. Miss S would need to provide appropriate evidence to 
show the financial loss, such as proof of the days lost wages and confirmation from her 
employer that she took the day off. However, I dont require IPA to cover any loss of income 
for Mr L. Im aware his photography equipment was damaged by the water leak. But, I think 
it is difficult to determine what specific financial loss there was and so Im not persuaded that 
IPA needs to pay anything in relation to this.
Ive also thought about compensation. IPA offered £300 compensation, which was for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr L and Miss S. Im aware IPA thought £1,000 was 
too much compensation and Mr L and Miss S thought it was too low an amount and that 
around £8,000 would be more appropriate. Ive thought about this carefully, including taking 
into account the full circumstances of what happened and our approach to compensation 
awards. 
Mr L and Miss S clearly had to deal with a lot of distress and inconvenience because of the 
water leak. This included having to deal with the leak itself, being left without a shower, the 
damage to their home, including concerns about the garage door not closing properly and 
how they felt about living in their home, and making a home insurance claim, as well as 
having to be persistent in trying to show IPA was responsible for the damage. Im also aware 
of their personal circumstances, including the medical issues and the impact on Mr L 
because of the damage to his photography equipment. I can see that this would have had a 
significant impact on Mr L and Miss S and over a prolonged period of time. So, having 
thought about this carefully, I think £1,000 is an appropriate amount of compensation to 
reflect the impact on Mr L and Miss S. This includes the £300 compensation previously 
offered by IPA. 
Putting things right
IPA should reimburse Mr L and Miss S the excess they paid for their home insurance claim. 
It should also take reasonable steps to reimburse Mr L and Miss Ss home insurer and, if 
possible, get the claim removed from the CUE database. IPA should also compensate Miss 
S for the loss of one days wages, if she can appropriately evidence the financial loss. It 
should also pay a total of £1,000 compensation, which includes the £300 previously offered, 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Inter Partner Assistance SA to:
Reimburse the excess Mr L and Miss S paid for their home insurance claim.
Take reasonable steps to reimburse Mr L and Miss Ss home insurer for the cost of the 
claim and to remove the claim from the CUE database.
Compensate Miss S for one days loss of wages, subject to her providing suitable 
evidence of this.
Pay a total of £1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. This 
include the £300 previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman