DRN-2323236
The complaint
Mr C complains that MBNA Limited offered him a 0% balance transfer for 29 months from 
his old MBNA card to a new one, but then said that he couldnt have the full offer because he 
wasnt transferring a balance from a different provider.
What happened
Mr C said that his existing 0% interest offer on his MBNA card was about to expire. When he 
opened up the app, he saw an ad saying he could take out a new 0% deal for 29 months. He 
said the ad told him the balance of his old card would be transferred over, the old card would 
be closed, and a new one would be opened for him. So he applied. But he said that when he 
tried to take advantage of this offer to transfer the balance from his old MBNA card at 0% 
interest, he was told he couldnt do that. 
Mr C said he wouldnt have taken out this card if MBNA had made this clear. He thought that 
the promotion for this offer wasnt clear, fair and not misleading. 
Mr C said he was going to be charged interest on the balance from his old card because of 
this. He said MBNA had offered a six-month interest free period on this balance, but he 
thought that was just an admission that something was wrong. 
Mr C sent us the original agreement, which he said didnt specify that balance transfers 
couldnt be made from other MBNA cards. That agreement includes this definition of a 
balance transfer 
Balance transfers
Using your available credit to pay some or all of your credit card balance with another 
provider.
MBNA said its offer had explained that Mr Cs existing balance would move to the new card 
and the standard rate of interest, so it wouldnt waive interest on this balance for 29 months. 
It pointed to the part of the credit card agreement defining balance transfers, to explain why 
moving a balance from one MBNA card to another doesnt constitute a balance transfer.
MBNA sent our service details of how the opening of the new card was described to Mr C. 
That said Your current [rate] (variable) annual purchase rate will be replaced by the new 
annual purchase rate. And Well move your current balance of [redacted] to your new 
cards standard APR.  
The standard rate on his old card, just before the transfer was done, was 27.93%. And the 
standard rate on his new card, after the transfer, was 20.93%.
MBNA said it had put an interest waiver onto Mr Cs account for 6 months as a gesture of 
goodwill. It thought that would give him enough time to find an offer elsewhere if he wished. 
But it wouldnt do more than that. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. At first, he said that although 
the overall application couldve been clearer, parts of MBNAs information did say that 
balance transfers meant a transfer from a different card provider. He didnt think that MBNA 
had been unfair or misleading.
Mr C asked our investigator to show him where this definition of a balance transfer was 
found in the materials hed been sent, and our investigator showed him the definition. Our 
investigator also said that just because something couldve been clearer, didnt mean it had 
breached the relevant regulations. 
Mr C then sent screenshots he said showed the 0% balance transfer offer, those screens 
didnt include the definition of balance transfers. But our investigator said the definition made 
clear that a balance transfer didnt include transfers from other MBNA accounts. 
Mr C replied, to expand on the complaint he had made. He said that the offer he saw clearly 
said his current offer was coming to an end and he could transfer his remaining balance to a 
new card at the promotional rate. The ad said he wouldnt need to do anything, the 
remaining balance would be transferred over, the old card would be cancelled and a new 
card issued.
Mr C said that at no stage throughout the process was it mentioned that MBNA to MBNA 
transfers were not permitted. He also said the fields were pre-populated with his current card 
details so he could confirm a transfer of the balance on his old card to the new 29 month 0% 
card. Mr Cs recollection was that the offer literally said transfer your current balance from 
this card to a new 29 month 0% rate card, click here to complete the process. He said he 
was very sure that the advertised promotion had indicated his old balance would be 
transferred to the promotional rate.
Our investigator then asked MBNA for further information. It was equally confident that it 
wouldnt have phrased an offer the way that Mr C remembered it. It sent our service the 
screens it said Mr C wouldve seen when he applied for this offer. Those offered Mr C a 
choice of either applying for a new card as a second, separate credit card to run alongside 
his existing card, or applying for a new card to replace his old one, which MBNA calls 
swapping a card. 
The first page of the ad says that if someone applies to swap a card Well move your 
existing balances (including those on promotional rates) to your new credit cards standard 
interest rate.
Our investigator then said that step 6 on these screenshots, about transferring balances at a 
promotional rate, said balance transfers werent available from other MBNA accounts. Above 
the option to transfer balances, the page said Were sorry, but you cant transfer any 
balances from an MBNA credit card. He said that this meant the information Mr C was given 
was very clear on this point, so he didnt think this complaint should be upheld. 
Mr C still thought that hed been invited to apply for a new card with a 0% interest offer, as 
his old offer was expiring, and asked what the benefit would be of transferring a balance 
from an existing card to a new card with the same interest rate? He didnt think MBNAs 
explanation was feasible. Mr C wanted to see these screenshots, so our investigator 
arranged to send them to him.
Our investigator said the screens that Mr C had seen did make clear what would happen to 
the balance of his existing card, if he swapped it for a new one. Under the subsection 
"Something to think about" the screen said "We'll move your existing balances (including those on promotional rates) to your new credit card's standard rate". So our investigator said 
this does clearly state what would happen to any remaining balance that Mr C transferred 
over to a new card.
Mr C said that there must have been another screen before this, which said he could transfer 
at a new promotional rate of 0% interest. If there was no indication at all that the transfer was 
available then he didnt believe MBNA would have offered a reduced 0% interest period as a 
goodwill gesture. He said he wasnt convinced at all that the evidence we had sent him was 
the same as the application he had made.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. Because no agreement was reached, this case was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I understand that Mr C recalls being offered a 0% balance transfer from his old card, to a 
new MBNA card. I do think he was offered a new card, and that new card would have the 
facility to do new balance transfers. But I havent seen anything to make me think that MBNA 
was making this offer in the way Mr C has understood it. And MBNA has provided our 
service with evidence which I think strongly suggests it was made clear to Mr C that he 
couldnt transfer his existing balance from his old MBNA card to a new one.
MBNA has sent us the screens that it says Mr C wouldve seen when he made his 
application. Those include a clear statement about what would happen to the balance of his 
old card -
We'll move your existing balances (including those on promotional rates) to your 
new credit card's standard rate". 
And an equally clear statement that the promotional balance transfer rate isnt available for 
transfers from another MBNA account -
Were sorry, but you cant transfer any balances from an MBNA credit card.
This all fits with a provision in the terms and conditions that Mr C himself sent us, which tells 
us transfers from other MBNA accounts dont fall within the definition of balance transfers  
Balance transfers
Using your available credit to pay some or all of your credit card balance with another 
provider.
Mr C says that he isnt convinced that the screens weve seen were part of his application. 
But Ive not seen anything to make me think that these arent an accurate representation of 
what MBNA showed Mr C at the time. 
I think its more likely that these pages did set out clearly that Mr Cs balance would be 
transferred to his new card, on its standard rate, than that MBNA has made a mistake about 
this, which contradicted both the evidence it has sent us now, and the terms and conditions it 
sent Mr C at the time. Mr C said it made no sense to transfer his balance from his old card onto a new one if he 
would just be paying the same interest rate. But it looks to me as if the standard interest rate 
on his new card was rather better than the standard rate on his old card. He was just about 
to start paying that standard rate, his promotional rate for a balance transfer on his old card 
was about to expire. So there was an advantage to him in moving his existing balance to a 
new card with a lower rate.
Mr C says that he doesnt believe that MBNA would have offered him six months interest 
free as a gesture of goodwill, if it hadnt made a mistake. I do appreciate that a gesture of 
goodwill may not always be what it claims, but I think in this case, it was simply that. 
I know Mr C will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman