DRN-3227900
The complaint
Mr N complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited provided poor customer service 
when dealing with an erroneous claim against his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2020 Advantage told Mr N a third-party driver had claimed against his motor 
insurance policy. He denied being involved in the reported incident. He was unhappy 
with how Advantage communicated with him when dealing with the claim and his 
enquiries. 
In September 2020 Advantage issued a response to a complaint from Mr N. It paid him 
£50 compensation to recognise the impact of failing to respond to some of his emails 
about the claim. One of our investigators looked at events relating to that final response 
letter. He didnt recommend Advantage pay anything extra or do anything differently. 
Mr N responded to explain why he wasnt satisfied with the investigators findings. The 
investigator said the points he raised were related to events after Advantage had issued 
its final response letter. Mr N had said he had required to send many more emails and 
make additional phone calls to sort out the issue. He was unhappy that Advantage 
hadnt told him he wouldnt be negatively impacted by any records of the erroneous 
claim. The investigator felt the insurer should be given a chance to respond. 
In August 2021 Advantage issued a final response to Mr Ns latest complaint points. It 
apologised for not letting him know it had removed a record of the claim from CUE (an 
insurance industry database). It also said sorry for confusion it had caused when dealing 
with his concerns. It paid Mr N a further £75 to recognise the impact of its poor service. 
He didnt think that was sufficient for what he had experienced. He said Advantages 
poor customer service had resulted in a great deal of unnecessary correspondence.
In June 2021 our investigator considered the latest complaint points and Advantages 
response. He felt Advantage had unfairly failed to keep Mr N updated about the claim. 
He said it hadnt responded reasonably to his correspondence. The investigator said a 
total of £300 compensation would be more appropriate. So he recommended Advantage 
pay a further £175. Mr N accepted that assessment. But Advantage didnt, so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.   
In February 2022 I wrote to Mr N and Advantage to give my initial assessment of the 
complaint. I explained I understood why the erroneous claim against his policy caused 
Mr N some distress. But I said, as far as I was aware, there was a genuine mistake 
behind it. I noted that when the mistake was confirmed Advantage, in January 2021, 
closed the claim and removed any CUE records. I said thankfully it seems the issue 
hasnt caused Mr N any financial loss, for example by unfairly increasing the cost of his 
insurance.  
I said that Id seen Advantage told Mr N, in January 2021, about the claim being closed. I 
noted it didnt at the same time explain to him it had removed records from CUE. Neither 
did it let him know the claim wouldnt affect the cost of his insurance.  I said it would 
have been reasonable for Advantage to have provided those reassurances. 
Unfortunately, instead, it seems he was first given that information by this service in 
June 2021.
I also addressed Mr Ns dissatisfaction with Advantages response to his requests for 
information relating to the claim. He wanted further information to allow him to 
understand if his number plate may have been cloned. I said I could understand why a 
concern about cloning may have caused him some distress. 
However, I said Advantage had, in September 2020, provided an explanation of the 
likely cause of the mistaken claim. It told him the issue seemed to have arisen because 
a third-party provider, he had dealt with previously, had forwarded Advantage an 
incorrect form for a claim. I said whilst that may not have fully satisfied his concerns it did 
give him some indication of the likely cause. 
I felt that ultimately the key cause of distress experienced by Mr N was the mistaken 
claim. I said its unfortunate that happened, but I hadnt seen enough to say Advantage 
was to blame for it. I noted it eventually untangled the issue and closed the claim, with 
no financial loss to Mr N. 
I acknowledged Advantages poor communications did cause an additional element of 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. I said Mr N (and his representative) sent many 
emails about various aspects of the claim and service. I said whilst he did make a 
number of calls, not all of them were required because of poor service from Advantage. 
Some were necessary to untangle an unfortunate mistake. 
I concluded Advantage should pay Mr N more than £125 compensation in total. But I 
said I didnt think the unnecessary distress and inconvenience experienced was so 
significant that £300 would be appropriate. I felt that instead £200 seemed a fairer 
amount. So I said I intended to require Advantage to pay Mr N an additional £75.
I asked Advantage and Mr N to provide anything further they would like me to consider 
before I issued a final decision. Advantage accepted my findings without providing any 
further information. Mr N wasnt satisfied. He provided some points. Ive addressed 
those, where I feel it necessary, below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my initial assessment of his complaint Mr N said he understands a mistake by 
a third-party was responsible for initiating the erroneous claim. But he feels the problems 
after that all stemmed from Advantages intransigence.  He feels unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience would have been avoided if it had responded to his enquiries more 
effectively. 
Ive already given my thoughts on Advantages communication with Mr N. So I wont repeat 
them in detail here. I accepted it could have provided better information at points. Mr N 
hasnt provided anything to change my mind on the extent of its poor service.  He referred to the number of emails he sent, and phone calls he made, to Advantage. Id already 
considered those for my initial assessment.
Mr Ns disappointed I didnt award a total of £300 compensation or more. He made points 
about how the amount of compensation to be awarded should be decided. He pointed to 
Advantage charging customers £40 for an administrative task. He feels there should be a 
balance between its charges and each action of his that was required due to its poor service.    
When calculating compensation awards, we consider the impact a businesss mistake has 
had on the individual involved. We ask what unnecessary distress or inconvenience the 
mistake caused that person. We dont use that businesss charges as a benchmark. As I 
said I dont think the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused to Mr N was so 
significant that £300 or more would be appropriate. I still feel £200 in total is a fairer 
amount. So Advantage will need to pay Mr N whatever is required for him to receive a 
total of £200 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Advantage Insurance Company Limited need to pay Mr N 
whatever amount is required for him to have received a total of £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman