DRN-3304011
The complaint
Mr D complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) mishandled his
motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Watford, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Watford
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
For the year from January 2021, Mr D took out motor insurance through an insurance
broker. He said that his occupation was as a kitchen worker. Watford was the insurance
company responsible for dealing with any claim.
Unfortunately, in early July 2021, Mr Ds vehicle was involved in an accident. He made a
claim to Watford. Watford said that Mr D hadnt told it hed changed his occupation to a 
delivery courier. So it declined his claim and it cancelled the policy.
Mr D complained to Watford that it was treating him unfairly. By a final response dated early
December 2021, Watford turned down his complaint. Mr D brought his complaint to us in
mid-December 2021.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that
Watford had acted fairly. He recommended that Watford should:
1. deal with any claim relating to the accident notified; and
2. reinstate cover and remove record of any cancellation; and
3. compensate Mr D £250.00 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
The investigator said that the compensation hed recommended had taken into account that
cancellation was likely to impact any new policy Mr D may have attempted to take out.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr D 
and to Watford on 4 February 2022. I summarise my findings:
I wasnt persuaded that Mr Ds circumstances had changed so that there was a
fundamental change to the risk . And  notwithstanding the policy wording and the
underwriting criteria  I found it unfair for Watford to decline Mr Ds claim for the 
reason it gave.
We expect an insurer to apply its policy terms fairly and to give a 7-day notice of its 
intention to cancel the policy and to write a further letter confirming that cancellation 
has taken effect. Even if he had become a courier, I hadnt seen any such 7-day 
notice or letter from Watford to Mr D. So I wasnt satisfied that Watford treated Mr D 
fairly in relation to the cancellation.
Mr D hadnt given us enough detail about the damage to his car or when he had to 
stop driving it. But I found it likely that  by declining his claim and cancelling his 
policy in ways Id found unfair  Watford caused Mr D extra distress and 
inconvenience at an already difficult time for him. 
Subject to any further information from Mr D or from Watford, my provisional decision was to 
uphold this complaint. I intended to direct Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to:
1. meet Mr Ds claim relating to the accident in July 2021 in line with the policy 
terms other than those relating to a change of occupation; and
2. add simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on any payment to Mr D in settlement 
of his claim. If Watford considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It 
should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. write a letter to Mr D (which he may show to current or future insurers) saying 
that Watford cancelled his policy unfairly and that Watford has removed any 
record of the cancellation from any external databases to which it has provided 
information about the cancellation; and
4. pay Mr D £150.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr D accepted the provisional decision and didnt add any further information.
Watford disagreed with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
Based upon very detailed analysis of data, the underwriter has determined that 
courier is an unacceptable occupation and an unacceptable risk. If Mr D had correctly 
declared his change of occupation as required, the policy would have been 
cancelled. It is not for the Financial Ombudsman Service to set the underwriting 
criteria.
Watford has attached the letter sent to the policyholder informing him of the 
cancellation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumers complaint against an insurance
company or other regulated financial firm. In our final decision, we name that insurer or firm
but we dont identify any other individual or company.
Ive taken into account the law including Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Ive also taken into account the policy terms,
regulation and good practice. Above all I have to decide whats fair and reasonable.CIDRA imposes a duty on a consumer to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation to an insurer on the purchase of a policy or on a variation.
From its underwriting criteria, I accept that Watford wouldve declined to insure anyone who
was a courier.
From the policy proposal, I see that Mr D had only had his driving licence since the summer
of 2020. The policy schedule said he didnt have any no-claims discount (NCD). The
excess on any damage claim was £605.00 (including £150.00 as an inexperienced driver).
From the policy schedule, I see that Mr D estimated the value of his vehicle as £660.00.
From the certificate of insurance, I note that cover was for social, domestic and pleasure
(SDP) use. The premium for the year was about £1,100.00.
Watfords policy terms included the following:
Section 17

Our Cancellation Rights 
During the Period of Insurance 
We have the right to cancel Your Policy at any time by giving You seven days notice 
in writing where there is an exceptional or valid reason for doing so. We will send Our 
cancellation letter to the latest address We have for You and will set out the reason 
for cancellation in Our letter. Exceptional or valid reasons may include but are not 
limited to:

Alternatively, We have the right to cancel Your Policy immediately, at any time during 
the Period of Insurance, where there is evidence of fraud or a valid reason for doing 
so. We will still send Our cancellation letter to the latest postal or email address We 
have for You and will set out the reason for cancellation in Our letter. Valid reasons 
allowing Us to immediately cancel may include but are not limited to:

So the policy terms allowed Watford to cancel either by seven days notice or immediately if, 
in either case there was a valid reason, of which it listed examples. But the policy terms 
provided that Watford would send a letter setting out the reason for cancellation.
Watfords policy terms also included the following: 
Section 18
Changes which may affect Your cover
The Terms of Your Policy and premium are based on the information You have given
us. If any of this information changes You must notify Us by calling Your broker.
Below are some examples of what You should tell us. Please note these lists are not
exhaustive and You should contact Your Broker if You are unsure about whether You
need to inform Us of a change. Any changes to Your Policy will be subject to Our
agreement and may not be acceptable, therefore please contact Your Broker for
guidance on changes You wish to make. If a change to Your Policy is acceptable it
may result in revised Terms and/or a change in the premium. Any changes to Your
Policy may also be subject to administration fee charged by Your Broker. We reserve
the right to request further documentation following a change made to Your Policy,
such as proof ownership and/or confirmation of the registered keeper.
You must tell Us immediately if:
 You change Your address or the address where Your Car is normally kept; You or anyone covered by this Policy ceasing or changing jobs, or starting a new
job, including any part-time work; or
 Your or any insured drivers driving licence is revoked either temporarily or
permanently, or the status of the driving licence has changed, e.g. if You or any
insured driver has passed their driving test.
You must tell Us about the following beforehand:
 If You intend to change Your Car or its registration number.
 If You intend to change what You use Your vehicle for.
 If You want to include other drivers or intend to change the main driver.
 If You intend to modify Your Car from the manufacturer's standard specification.

You must tell Us about the following when You renew Your Policy:
If there have been any changes to the insurance details of You or any other person
named as a driver under this Policy. Such changes to insurance details include, but
are not limited to:
 Any information listed on Section 18, that should be advised immediately or
beforehand.
 Any accidents, claims, losses or damages to any vehicle, whether or not a claim
was made and regardless of blame. This includes all types of claims, damages or
accidents such as Fire, Theft or glass damage (windscreen or window).

Failure to notify any required changes and to take reasonable care to ensure that any
information supplied is provided honestly, fully and correctly may result in Your Policy
being cancelled or treated as if it never existed, or in Your claim being rejected or not
fully paid.
So the policy terms said that Mr D had to tell Watford immediately if he changed his job - and
failure to do so might result in the cancellation of the policy or the rejection of a claim.
But I wouldnt find it fair and reasonable for Watford to rely on such a term as a reason to
decline a claim  unless there had been a fundamental change in the risk.
In early July 2021, M D rang to report the accident and to make a claim.
By December 2021 Watfords final response included the following:
[1]You advised the claim handlers that you were a self-trader in gardens and car
boot sales and that you were self-employed on the first notification of loss call. The
claim handlers asked you to confirm when your occupation had changed and you
advised them that this was due to the covid-19 pandemic but did not specify a date.
[2] However, you later advised that your occupation was now a Bicycle Food Delivery
- Full time for [named food delivery service] and that you lost your job at the
restaurant [named restaurant] due to Covid at the end of March 2021.
Ive added the numbering for ease of reference.
From the call recoding, I accept Watfords statement that Ive numbered 1.
But - in relation to its statement that Ive numbered 2 - Watford hasnt provided enough
dates, details, call recordings or notes. So its not at all clear that Mr D had changed his
occupation to a courier before the accident.
I also keep in mind that the policy covered driving for SDP use and not for deliveries. And
Watford recorded that Mr D was doing deliveries on a bicycle.So Im not persuaded that Mr Ds circumstances had changed so that there was a
fundamental change to the risk . And  notwithstanding the policy wording and the
underwriting criteria  I find it unfair for Watford to decline Mr Ds claim for the reason it
gave.
To try to put that right, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Watford to meet his claim in line 
with the policy terms other than those relating to a change of occupation. As he may have 
been out of pocket since the accident, I will direct Watford to add interest at our usual rate to 
any payment to Mr D in settlement of his claim.
Cancellation of a motor policy can adversely affect a driver for some years. So we expect an
insurer to apply its policy terms fairly and to give a 7-day notice of its intention to cancel the
policy and to write a further letter confirming that cancellation has taken effect.
In response to the provisional decision, Watford sent us a copy of a 7-day notice dated late 
September 2021. But that letter didnt state any reason for the cancellation. So - even if Mr D 
had become a courier -  I dont think the notice was in line with the policy terms. And Watford 
hasnt shown us any separate letter confirming the cancellation to Mr D after it had taken 
effect. So Im not satisfied that Watford treated Mr D fairly in relation to the cancellation.
To try to put that right, I find it fair to direct Watford to write a letter to Mr D (which he may 
show to current or future insurers) saying that Watford cancelled his policy unfairly and that 
Watford has removed any record of the cancellation from any external databases to which it 
has provided information about the cancellation. As he may show that letter to current and 
future insurers, it should mitigate the effects of the cancellation on the availability and cost of 
his motor insurance.
As the policy wouldve expired in January 2022, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct
Watford to reinstate the policy.
Mr D hasnt given us enough detail about the damage to his car or when he had to stop
driving it. But I find it likely that  by declining his claim and cancelling his policy in ways Ive
found unfair  Watford caused Mr D extra distress and inconvenience at an already difficult
time for him.
Watfords final response to Mr D opened with a statement that the policy had been cancelled
because hed made a misrepresentation. I find it likely that this made Mr D feel hed been
accused of giving incorrect information. And Watford has maintained its position despite the
investigators opinion and the provisional decision.
Overall I consider that £150.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and
inconvenience Watford has caused Mr D by its unfair treatment.
Putting things right
I find it fair and reasonable to direct Watford to meet his claim in line with the policy terms 
other than those relating to a change of occupation. As he may have been out of pocket 
since the accident, I will direct Watford to add interest at our usual rate to any payment to Mr 
D in settlement of his claim.
I find it fair to direct Watford to write a letter to Mr D (which he may show to current or future 
insurers) saying that Watford cancelled his policy unfairly and that Watford has removed any 
record of the cancellation from any external databases to which it has provided information 
about the cancellation. As he may show that letter to current and future insurers, it should 
mitigate the effects of the cancellation on the availability and cost of his motor insurance.I consider that £150.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and
inconvenience Watford has caused Mr D by its unfair treatment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to:
1. meet Mr Ds claim relating to the accident in July 2021 in line with the policy terms 
other than those relating to a change of occupation; and
2. add simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on any payment to Mr D in settlement of his 
claim. If Watford considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should 
also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. write a letter to Mr D (which he may show to current or future insurers) saying that 
Watford cancelled his policy unfairly and that Watford has removed any record of the 
cancellation from any external databases to which it has provided information about 
the cancellation; and
4. pay Mr D £150.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman