DRN-2063005
The complaint
Miss W complains that Monzo Bank Ltd has repeatedly frozen her account, which has had a
serious effect on her. She says shes explained to Monzo why the payments triggering alerts
are made into her account, but she says it keeps happening.
What happened
Miss W said that the nature of her work means that she receives payments of varying sizes,
at irregular intervals and from different sources. She said Monzo kept freezing her account.
Shed explained to it why the account was being run in this way, and Monzo said that was
ok, and paid some compensation. But she said this keeps happening. She told us about the
embarrassment and difficulties this had caused.
Monzo told us that between October 2019 and January 2020, it had blocked Miss Ws card a
total of seven times. But a number of these blocks were very brief, only a few minutes, so
Miss W was unlikely to have noticed them.
Monzo said that it has regulatory responsibilities which mean that it has to remain alert. It
cant promise that this will stop happening.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Monzo was just
complying with its regulatory responsibilities. He appreciated the inconvenience this caused
to Miss W, but he said that Monzo hadnt made mistakes, and it had paid £260 in
compensation. So he didnt think Monzo had to do any more. Our investigator also said that
due to Monzos regulatory responsibilities and to how Miss W works, this is a situation which
is likely to happen again.
Miss W said she hadnt received £260 in compensation. Our investigator said it was £260 in
total. And because he and Miss W hadnt agreed, the case was passed to me for a final
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I think Miss W has actually received and retained £220 in compensation. The 
confusion appears to be because a credit for £20 was later taken back. Miss W has 
told us that she has refused some compensation offers, so she presumably didnt 
wish to accept that payment.
Shes received the following payments from Monzo 
9 October 2019 - £30 credit.
11 October 2019 - £20 credit, reversed on 14 October.
2 November 2019 - £50 credit
23 November 2019 - £20 credit
19 December 2019 - £60 credit
30 December 2019 - £30 credit
14 January 2020 - £30 credit
Ive considered carefully what Miss W told us has happened when her card was 
frozen. So I do understand that having her account blocked has caused Miss W 
considerable upset, as well as inconvenience. But I cant see a way that I could, fairly 
and reasonably, direct Monzo to simply stop this happening in future. That would be 
interfering with Monzos regulatory responsibilities.
Im pleased to see that many of the blocks on Miss Ws account have been brief, and 
that Monzo is actively reviewing what it can do to help Miss W. I dont think I can ask 
it to do more. And, because I agree with our investigator that Monzo didnt actually 
make mistakes when it blocked Miss Ws account, I dont think I can ask it to pay 
more compensation.
I know Miss W will be terribly disappointed, particularly as Im not able to stop this 
happening again, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Monzo said it had nothing to add. Miss W didnt reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed this case, and I still dont think our service is able to help Miss W.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman