DRN-3889851
The complaint
Mr V complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs decision to decline a personal loan 
application.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr V went to a Barclays branch to apply for a personal loan. He intended 
to use the loan to pay off a car finance agreement. Barclays declined Mr Vs application as 
they said he failed to meet the required internal credit scoring, and that their lending team 
considered the application unaffordable given his current income and expenditure.
Mr V raised a complaint with Barclays as he was unhappy with their decision to decline his 
personal loan application and he also had concerns about the long-term implication of the 
declined application on his credit file. Barclays responded to Mr Vs complaint explaining that 
all lending goes through an underwriting process to make sure the application meets their 
internal and regulatory requirements to make sure theyre lending responsibly. And when 
they completed the process for Mr Vs application it didnt meet the requirements.
Unhappy with Barclays response to his complaint Mr V contacted our service to further his 
complaint. One of our investigators considered Mr Vs complaint and they didnt find that 
Barclays had acted unfairly when processing Mr Vs loan application. She explained that it 
wasnt Barclays responsibility to tell customers to check their credit record before applying 
for lending. She informed Mr V that it was Barclays own commercial decision regarding their 
lending criteria and that Mr Vs application was deemed unaffordable when measured 
against their underwriting standards.
Mr V rejected the investigators findings and asked for a final decision. He didnt think it was 
fair of Barclays to propose he reapply for the loan after 30 days as this could lead to further 
negative impact on his credit file. He said Barclays should have been transparent about the 
application process and the need for a good credit score prior to him submitting his 
application. Mr V also mentioned that he wasnt told by Barclays that the loan was 
unaffordable as stated in the investigators assessment.
So, the case has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to explain the remit of this decision. Barclays have made us aware that Mr V 
has applied for a personal loan with them, as well as applying for a business loan in his 
capacity as a business banking customer with them. Mr V has also made a complaint about 
our service. In my decision, Ill only be considering the complaint Mr V has brought to our 
service about his declined personal loan application. 
Additionally, Im not going to respond to every single point made by Mr V. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. I havent gone into same level of detail that Mr V has gone into, but were 
not required to. Were an informal service as a free alternative to the courts. Our rules allow 
me to take this approach. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome, and Im satisfied Ive understood the crux of Mr Vs 
complaint.
In September 2022, Mr V made a personal loan application to be able to settle a car finance 
agreement. The application was completed in branch and the adviser took Mr Vs details 
including his income and expenditure, but the application was declined. Barclays say that   
Mr V failed to meet their required internal credit scoring and that their lending team 
considered the application to be unaffordable given Mr Vs current income and expenditure. 
Its not for this service to tell a business to offer lending to a customer or to tell them how 
they should process personal loan applications  we are not the regulator. Our role is to look 
at whether they followed their own policies and procedures, or if they did something wrong 
which resulted in Mr Vs application being declined when it shouldnt have been. 
As the application was processed in branch, I dont know what information Mr V gave 
Barclays when he was asked about his income and expenditure. But its more likely than not, 
that as it was an in-branch application, Mr V wouldve been aware of what information the 
adviser was inputting to Barclays systems when the application was being processed. 
Barclays have given me evidence that shows Mr Vs application was declined due to their 
internal scoring criteria. Barclays have explained that their internal scoring is made up of 
different factors such as customer details, account performance and credit reference agency 
data. Barclays say that due to information provided by credit reference agencies about Mr 
Vs application, this showed that this loan, in addition to any existing financial debts, meant 
they werent satisfied that the loan would be affordable for Mr V. 
Overall, while I can see from what Mr V has told us that obtaining a loan was important to 
him, Im persuaded that Barclays processed Mr Vs application fairly and reasonably. They 
carried out the appropriate checks, such as how affordable the loan was when reaching their 
decision not to lend to Mr V. And they explained to Mr V the reason why the application was 
declined. 
Mr V has suggested that Barclays should have told him to check his credit file before he 
made the loan application so that he could have checked that credit file didnt show any 
information that would mean hed be turned down for the loan. Whilst I can see that a 
customer may want to do this before making an application, I dont agree that Barclays were 
obliged to tell Mr V to do so. So, I dont find that Barclays did anything wrong here.
I understand that Mr Vs concerned about any potential negative impact the declined loan 
application has had on his credit file. I accept the declined application would appear as a 
footprint on Mr Vs credit file  lenders are obliged to report such information. But I dont 
consider such a marker or enquiry made on a customer's credit record in connection with an 
application to be detrimental in the same way as it would if payments had been missed, or 
arrears accrued on an account.
But I acknowledge that several failed applications in quick succession may suggest to other 
lenders that a customer is having difficulty in getting credit. So, I can understand why Mr Vs 
concerned that Barclays advised him to reapply for the loan after 30 days. But as he didnt 
reapply in 30 days, Barclayss suggestion hasnt been detrimental to him.I understand Mr V has also referenced his dissatisfaction in relation to Barclays referring to 
his tax position. But from what Ive seen, these comments werent made during Mr Vs 
personal loan application process. So, this isnt something Ive considered as part of this 
complaint.
Overall, I dont find that Barclays have done anything significantly wrong when processing 
Mr V's loan application that would warrant a compensation payment. So, I wont be asking 
Barclays to take any further action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman