DRN-3992332
The complaint
Mr T complains British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) missed service appointments 
and his boiler hasnt been serviced for over two years. Mr T wants a refund of his premiums. 
What happened
Mr T has a HomeCare policy with British Gas which provides cover for repairs in the event of 
breakdown or damage to his boiler and central heating system. An annual service is also 
included.  
Since July 2022 British Gas have missed three appointments to come and service Mr Ts 
boiler. He says his boiler hasnt been serviced for over two years which has caused him 
considerable stress because he relies on the annual service to ensure the boiler is safe. 
Mr T says the appointments were made by the supplier and the time slots were between 
08.00 and 13.00. Mr T took annual leave for three days out of his total leave allowance at 
work in order to be at home for the appointments. 
Mr T complained to British Gas. British Gas said Mr Ts boiler was serviced for the year 
2019/2020 and 2020/2021. British Gas accepted for the year 2021/2022 no annual service 
was done and so it paid Mr T £90 for the missed annual service and for the cancelled 
service appointment. It said no annual service has been completed for the current year 
where the policy expires in June 2023. British Gas said it offered to book Mr Ts annual 
service and keep his complaint open until the service had been completed. But he declined. 
British Gas accepted three appointments had been cancelled and offered Mr T £80 as a 
goodwill gesture. It didnt agree to refund Mr T his premiums.  
Mr T didnt agree with British Gas. He wants his premiums refunded in resolution of his 
complaint. So he referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into things for 
him. She said British Gas had acknowledged Mr Ts frustration for the missed service and 
appointments. She said it had compensated him a total of £170 which is in line with the 
awards made by this service. So she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr T wasnt satisfied with the investigators outcome. He said British Gas missed three 
appointments in July, September, and October. He was then told an in-house engineer 
would attend but that didnt happen. Mr T requested call recordings which he has yet to 
receive. He says he thinks he has been specifically targeted by British Gas. Because Mr T 
doesnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr T feels very strongly that his complaint should be upheld. As a longstanding 
customer I recognise that he feels let down by the service he has received. But while I can 
understand Mr Ts frustration, our service is impartial. We dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, and we dont regulate or punish businesses. My role 
here is to assess whether I think British Gas made a mistake or treated Mr T unfairly.
I can see Mr T has gone to some trouble to provide our service with some very detailed 
submissions including specific points about the service he received. I want to assure him 
that Ive read everything hes sent us. I hope he will understand if I dont address every 
comment hes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to this 
complaint. 
British Gas has acknowledged there were failings in the service it provided to Mr T. So what 
Ive needed to consider is whether the compensation it paid is fair. 
Annual Service 
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ts policy. I need to consider these because 
the policy terms detail what was agreed between Mr T and British Gas when the policy was 
purchased. And to see whether British Gas acted reasonably I need to decide whether it 
acted in line with what was agreed in relation to annual service appointments. 
The terms and conditions say that an annual service is, a check in each period of 
agreement to ensure that your boiler, gas appliance or central heating, and ventilation is 
working safely and in line with relevant laws and regulation.  And based on the evidence 
provided by British Gas I can see the boiler was serviced regularly in line with the terms of 
the policy. On the occasion where the service was not carried out, whilst not ideal, Mr T was 
compensated according to the terms of the policy. So Im satisfied British Gas has acted 
fairly in respect of the annual service. 
Missed appointments 
There were three appointments made by British Gas which were cancelled. Mr T took time 
off from work to ensure he was at home and so was frustrated when that time was wasted 
when appointments werent kept. 
British Gas says that under its terms and conditions it doesnt pay for time off work. But the 
terms refer to reasonable timescales and say, well carry out any repairs or visits youre 
entitled to within a reasonable time. 
Looking at what happened I dont think the three cancelled appointments and failure to 
service the boiler qualify as reasonable. And it has caused a lot of unnecessary 
inconvenience to Mr T and his family. 
British Gas hasnt explained why those three appointments were cancelled. I can accept it 
might be necessary for a customer to need to take one or two days off to deal with matters 
such as this. But Mr T had to take three days off and each time the appointments werent 
kept. So I think the inconvenience and consequential loss was more than might be expected. 
And I think it must have been very frustrating for him to take the time off and have the 
inconvenience of staying in for appointments that didnt happen. 
British Gas has accepted the failure in service. The issue here is whether the compensation 
offered was reasonable. Mr T was paid £80 for the missed appointments. I know he has said 
that doesnt even cover him for one day of leave, but its not intended to reimburse any loss 
of earnings. So based on what Ive seen I think the compensation offered was reasonable. 
So taking everything into account Im satisfied British Gas has attempted to resolve Mr Ts 
complaint fairly. In-house engineer attendance 
Mr T has said he was told an in-house engineer would attend to service his boiler since the 
contractors instructed by British Gas had failed to do so. But this didnt happen. I have 
reviewed the call notes and cant see any reference to an in-house engineer. 
Mr T has said he believes an in-house engineer would be less likely to miss an appointment 
since they are employed by British Gas and not contracted in the same way other engineers 
are. I am not sure the instruction of an in-house engineer would guarantee an appointment 
would be met. 
I can see British Gas has offered to make an appointment for Mr Ts boiler to be serviced but 
so far Mr T hasnt taken them up on this. I dont think British Gas can do anything more 
regarding the boiler service without an appointment being agreed with Mr T. So I cant 
reasonably hold British Gas responsible for the fact that the boiler service for the current 
year hasnt been carried out yet. 
Call recordings 
British Gas has advised the call recordings have been requested and will be processed in 
due course. It acknowledges it missed the initial request from Mr T and has apologised for 
this. I can see British Gas is attempting to provide the information Mr T has requested and 
this is what I would expect it to do. 
Refund of premiums 
Mr T wants British Gas to refund his premiums. If Mr T had cause to contact British Gas to 
deal with an issue covered under the policy it would be obliged to carry that out. And since 
he has had the benefit of the policy including the annual service and any repairs that may be 
required, I dont think its fair to ask British Gas to refund those premiums. 
Complaint handling 
Mr T isnt happy with the way his complaint was dealt with by British Gas, including the tone 
of emails, and that two complaints were merged without his consent. Complaints handling 
isnt a regulated activity and therefore I am unable to comment on this aspect of Mr Ts 
complaint. 
I know Mr T will be disappointed with my decision. British Gas has accepted the service fell 
below what would be expected and has paid Mr T a total of £170 to reflect this. Initially he 
was paid £90 for the missed appointment and failure to service the boiler in 2022; and then a 
further £80 following conclusion of the complaint. I think the payment is reasonable in the 
circumstances and in line with what I would have directed, had it not already been paid. 
My final decision
British Gas Insurance Limited has already paid Mr T £170 to settle the complaint and I think 
this is fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman