DRN-3684681
The complaint
Mr C complains that a new car he acquired with a conditional sale agreement (CSA) from 
Tesla Financial Services Limited (TFS) is of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr C got the car in November 2020. It cost about £44,000 and the total advance paid was 
around £15,600 (made up of a £100 fee, a down payment of £12,500 and a grant of £3,000). 
Mr C agreed to repay the borrowing over four years or so, at nearly £370 a month with a final 
payment of over £15,000. In January 2021, Mr C noticed an issue with paintwork on the 
bonnet. He took the car to one of the manufacturers service centres and the bonnet was 
resprayed but he was unhappy with the repair. 
Mr C arranged for an independent expert to inspect the car in June 2021. The expert thought 
paint adhesion was poor across the car and he found paint lifted away in some places when 
a tape test was carried out. He considered the general condition of the paint system across 
the vehicle show[s] signs of poor adhesion and a less than expected level of durability and 
the general condition of the paint system isless than acceptable.
Mr C complained to TFS and it consulted the manufacturer. TFS pointed out the expert 
found the paint is within specification of most vehicle paint systems and paint levels were 
found to show reasonable levels across the vehicle with the exception of the bonnet. TFS 
thought it was unsurprising the bonnet paintwork was different - as this had been repaired - 
and it considered some of the other paint damage present might be down to Mr Cs driving 
style. TFS didnt accept theres an issue with the entire paint finish but offered, as a gesture 
of goodwill, to respray the bonnet, front wings and front fascia.
Mr C thinks the car needs a complete respray or TFS should supply a replacement. He 
referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered the evidence. She 
thought Mr C had a reasonable expectation that this new car would be fault free at the point 
of supply - and for some time after. She was satisfied there are faults present (as the service 
centre agreed to re-spray the bonnet and the expert found poor paint adhesion and 
durability) and these were apparent less than two months after Mr C got the car. The 
investigator thought the car was probably of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied, 
albeit there were no mechanical problems and Mr C had the use of the vehicle. She found it 
was fair for TFS to arrange and pay for the entire car to be resprayed (within a reasonable 
timescale) and refund the cost of the experts report (£216) plus interest.
TFS was unhappy with the investigators recommendations. It said the paintwork issues are 
restricted to certain panels only. And the damage present doesnt justify the cost of a full 
respray  which would also be inconvenient for Mr C, who would be without his car for 
several weeks. TFS offered to have the affected panels resprayed or take the car back, 
refund the down payment of £15,600 plus the cost of the paint report and pay Mr C an 
additional £500 compensation for upset and inconvenience.
Mr C didnt think TFSs offer was fair. He says this would mean he loses out financially 
because the deal in place when he acquired the car is no longer available and it would cost 
significantly more to replace. Hes also concerned that hed lose several other benefits 
acquired through the manufacturers loyalty/referral programme (that he went to some 
trouble to build up via social media posts and the like) because these arent transferable.
Mr C says the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the outset - the manufacturer has 
acknowledged the presence of similar defects in cars produced around the same time as his 
vehicle. He sent a video showing paint coming off in the boot (a protected internal area). He 
thinks paint adhesion is sub-standard across the car and repair attempts havent resolved 
things so the only fair solution is a full respray.
Having considered the available evidence, I was minded to uphold the complaint but I was 
inclined to reach a somewhat different outcome overall. I thought it was fair to give the 
parties the chance to see my provisional findings and make further submissions (if they 
wanted to) before I made my final decision so I issued a provisional decision on 26 July 
2022. Ive set out below what I decided provisionally - and why. This forms part of my final 
decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I can see that Mr C has gone to some trouble to make very detailed submissions here. I 
want to assure him, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I 
havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But, 
Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I consider is relevant and material to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Mr C brings his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service because he acquired this car 
with a CSA from TFS. And I should make it clear at the outset that Im considering TFSs 
obligations arising under the finance agreement in this decision. Its not within my remit to 
look into things done (or not done) by the manufacturer or any other third party. I make my 
decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable overall. In doing so, Im obliged to take 
relevant law (amongst other things) into account. Im satisfied that the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (CRA) is relevant here and TFS was obliged to ensure that this car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr C.
The level of quality thats satisfactory varies according to individual circumstances. In the 
case of a car, its generally reasonable to take into account factors such as the age, price 
and mileage at the point of supply. This car was new and cost about £44,000. As such, I 
think Mr C had a reasonable expectation it would be fault free when he got it. Im satisfied, 
based on the experts report and other evidence, that the paint finish on the car is imperfect 
in places. I think its likely this issue was present when the car was supplied to Mr C. I dont 
think a reasonable person would expect a car like this to exhibit such faults so soon. Im 
minded to find the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. And Ive gone on 
to consider what, if anything, TFS should do to put things right.
Putting things right
The CRA sets out a number of possible remedies in this situation, including repair, 
replacement, reduction in price and rejection. By the time the matter was referred to me a 
number of repairs had already been undertaken - the bonnet was repainted initially. Im satisfied this repair wasnt to a satisfactory standard, based on the experts findings. It looks 
as if TFS then arranged for the bonnet, front bumper and front wings to be re- sprayed. Ive 
spoken to Mr C and he confirmed that these repairs seem satisfactory but hes concerned 
that paint is still coming off elsewhere  its flaking inside the boot, for example  and hes 
worried about durability overall. 
Im satisfied the expert expressed some concerns about the durability of the paint system. 
And I think its understandable that Mr C is worried about more areas of paint degrading and 
the impact of this on the paint finish overall. TFS has offered to take the car back and 
provide a refund and compensation to (essentially) put Mr C back in the position he would 
have been in if he had never acquired the car. And Id usually consider that was reasonable 
remedy in this sort of situation. 
Mr C feels its unfair in these particular circumstances however as this doesnt take all of his 
losses into account. He says he cant afford to buy the same model again because of the 
increase in price. And hell also lose several significant benefits that he took the time and 
effort to build up under a scheme operated by the manufacturer. Ideally, hed prefer to keep 
the car and have a full re-spray but he said he would also consider a price reduction. The 
investigator put that to TFS and it considers the cost of a respray would be disproportionate 
and amount to a significant proportion of the cars value. TFS said it would consider a price 
reduction but didnt indicate how much and thought this might prove difficult to process.
Ive got to weigh up whats fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances here. I dont have 
much information about how the manufacturers reward system works. Mr C told us he cant 
keep the rewards he has accrued if he hands the car back which means he will lose the 
equivalent of thousands of free miles  not to mention how much more it would cost to buy 
the same model now. I dont think its fair that Mr C should lose out because he was supplied 
with this faulty car. We asked TFS to provide an estimate of the likely cost of a full respray 
and it said this would be around £7,400. Thats about 16% of the cost of the car. And I dont 
think its disproportionate or unreasonable overall considering the likely cost associated 
with taking the car back as well. 
So, on the evidence I have at present, Im minded to find its reasonable for TFS to arrange 
for the car to have a full respray. It remains open to the parties to propose and/or agree an 
alternative solution  such as a reduction in the price of the car. In addition, Im minded to 
find Mr C should be kept mobile while the car is being resprayed. If thats not possible then 
TFS should refund any monthly payments made towards the finance for the time Mr C is 
without a car. 
TFS seems to accept that Mr C has experienced a fair amount of inconvenience and upset 
here. It offered to pay him £500 to reflect that and I think this sounds fair. I also find it fair 
that Mr C should have the cost of the experts report refunded plus interest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
comments or new evidence by 23 August 2022. I said Id look at all the evidence available 
after that and make my final decision. 
Mr C accepts my provisional conclusions. He supplied a photograph of further damage and 
says paint continues to detach from the vehicle in the usual "map like" pattern which shows 
the adhesion issue is ongoing. TFS says (in summary) its keen to resolve the matter but the cost of repairs outweighs any 
lost enjoyment. It points out about £1,900 has been spent on repairs already and the cost of 
the respray would increase this to over £9,000. TFS considers this is a significant proportion 
of the cars value (more than I mentioned in my provisional decision) and should be taken 
into account.  
Ive considered what TFS says but I dont think loss of enjoyment is the really the issue here. 
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied the car was likely of unsatisfactory quality when 
it was supplied  in breach of TFSs obligations under the CRA. And, weighing everything 
up, Ive got to decide a fair and reasonable way to put things right. 
The circumstances are somewhat unusual. Mr C went to some considerable trouble and 
effort to build up significant benefits associated with his use of this car throughout the time 
he had it and hell lose all of that if TFS takes the car back now. I note what TFS says about 
the cost of previous repairs. But, I think these seem to have been undertaken on a 
somewhat piecemeal basis, so its perhaps not surprising they didnt work. And Ive seen 
nothing to show that a full re-spray wont resolve the problem satisfactorily. 
Taking into account everything thats happened, I remain of the view its not fair for Mr C to 
lose out because he was supplied with this new car with such poor paintwork. Im not 
persuaded that the cost of the repairs required to fix the issue is unreasonable or 
disproportionate, in all of the circumstances. And I find it is fair and reasonable for TFS to 
take the steps set out below to put things right.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require Tesla 
Financial Services Limited to:-
1. arrange for the car to have a full respray at no additional cost to Mr C;
2. keep Mr C mobile while his car is off the road for repairs - or refund the relevant 
monthly payments made pro rata;
3. refund the cost of the independent report Mr C paid for plus interest at 8% simple a 
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement: and
4. pay Mr C £500 compensation for the upset and inconvenience hes experienced. 
If TFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman