DRN-3425300
The complaint
Miss M complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles irresponsibly allowed her to open a 
credit card account which was unaffordable and irresponsibly increased the credit limits.
What happened
Miss M says the Marbles account was opened in October 2017 with a credit limit of £250. 
She says appropriate checks were not carried out and that the account shouldnt have been 
opened as it was unaffordable. Miss M says the credit limit was increased to £3,400 which 
was again unaffordable, and she would like all interest and charges refunded. She says she 
was on benefits at the time and all income went into her partners account.
NewDay says it carried out appropriate checks before approving the account. It says Miss M 
told it she was employed receiving an income of just under £14,000 a year and that there 
was additional household income of just over £30,000 a year. It also says it looked at Miss 
Ms credit file and could see her only other debt was £100. NewDay says Miss M told it 
about financial difficulty in 2020 when her partners job was lost.
Miss M brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought NewDay could have carried out more checks before the credit limit increases but 
didnt think it likely they would have provided any information which it ought to have 
considered. The investigator didnt think it likely NewDay would have asked to see Miss Ms 
partners bank account statements and didnt think Miss Ms credit file showed any recent 
adverse data. The investigator thought Miss M appeared to manage her account 
appropriately.
Miss M doesnt accept that view and says she only paid minimum required monthly amounts 
and says the investigators view is contradictory.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss M will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers must carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending or credit application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of that lending or facility. This was an application for a credit facility rather than for 
example a mortgage and so I wouldnt have expected NewDays checks to have been as 
detailed as for that type of lending but of course appropriate checks must be carried out.
I can see that Miss M told NewDay she had income of just under £14,000 and that there was 
additional household income of just over £30,000. And I can see that NewDay did carry out 
checks on the application by looking at Miss Ms credit file and that it did carry out 
affordability checks on the application. I can see that NewDay calculated Miss Ms other debt 
at £100 and considered her previous debt. So, Im satisfied that NewDay did carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks on the credit card account application and approved 
what I think was a modest credit limit of £250. It follows that I dont think the original lending 
decision was wrong or that the account was unaffordable.
The credit limit was then increased on four occasions. I appreciate what the investigator 
says that NewDay could have carried out further checks but that it difficult to see what they 
would have revealed. And I agree with what the investigator says. I have looked carefully at 
Miss Ms account statements before the credit limit increases and am satisfied that Miss M 
managed her account appropriately by making required payments on time. So, Im satisfied 
that NewDay was entitled to consider that before increasing the credit limit. I dont think a 
request to see Miss Ms bank account statements would have helped NewDay in these 
circumstances as its clear they were fairly limited, and Miss M has told us that her partners 
account was the main account.
So, I dont think any further checks by NewDay would have revealed any information that 
would have or ought to have resulted in it concluding any further credit limit increases were 
unaffordable. And I think Miss Ms managed her account appropriately after those increases 
which I think provides additional evidence the increases were affordable at the time. I can 
see Miss M made appropriate payments on occasions more than required and didnt use the 
full account balance immediately after the last increase.
I can see that in 2020 Miss M told NewDay that her partners job had been lost and that her 
working hours had been reduced. I think on balance that it was those factors rather than the 
account itself that led to financial difficulties.
Overall, Im satisfied that NewDay didnt lend irresponsibly to Miss M and so I cant fairly 
order it to refund any interest or charges. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman