DRN-4244277
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled a claim she 
made on her motor insurance policy.
Advantage, as the underwriter of the insurance contract, is responsible for this complaint. 
References to Advantage also includes its agents.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background.
Mrs Ms car was damaged in an accident on 21 August 2022. The car was given back to her 
on 20 September. She called Advantage the same day to let it know there was accident-
related damage which hadnt been repaired. Also, further damage had been caused 
unrelated to the accident and an engine warning light was on. 
On 23 September, Advantages agent, V, asked Mrs M for information about the further 
damage and this was responded to swiftly. However, Mrs M says nothing further was heard 
to arrange for her car to be inspected or repaired. At various times she chased Advantage 
for an update and to progress matters and was told V would be in touch but didnt hear 
anything from them. Further complaint points were raised by Mrs M in this time. 
On 14 October, V directed Mrs M to the garage who had done the repairs but also said her 
car may have been damaged by the salvage company when storing her car while it was 
considered a total loss. By the end of October, Mrs M contacted Advantage again but no 
progress had been made with her car or the complaint shed made.
Due to the lack of communication about what was happening to repair her car, and as she 
needed a car for work and her family, Mrs M felt she had no choice but to buy a new car and 
use her own car in part exchange as a deposit. She says she was also incurring extra costs 
as she didnt have a useable car and left it as long as she could before trading her car in in 
the hope things would be resolved. When she did part exchange her car on 31 October 
2022, due to the damage it had sustained, this was at a significantly reduced amount 
compared to its actual value. 
As mentioned, Mrs M complained to Advantage about the handling of her claim during this 
matter. Advantage issued two final response letters (FRLs). In one FRL, it acknowledged 
there had been delays and a lack of updates and offered Mrs M compensation of £60 for this 
but didnt accept Mrs Ms main complaint points. 
Mrs M brought her complaint to this service for an independent review. Ultimately, the 
Investigator explained V werent as proactive as they should have been. And Advantage 
shouldve done more to ensure the claim was progressing, particularly given the number of 
times it was contacted about this by Mrs M and the points raised by her. As it failed to do 
this, Mrs M incurred a financial loss she wasnt expecting. This caused additional distress 
and inconvenience. The Investigator asked Advantage to take steps to put things right 
including requiring it to pay the difference between the market value of Mrs Ms car and the 
amount she was given for the part exchange.
In response, Mrs M asked a couple of queries which were answered by the Investigator. As 
Advantage didnt respond, this matter was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I consider to be a fair outcome. 
Having done so, I must tell Advantage I think the Investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I uphold the complaint in this matter and require Advantage to take the steps 
outlined below to put things right. Ill explain why.
Advantages notes state damage was caused to Mrs Ms car because it was moved by the 
salvage agent using a forklift. I cant see Mrs M was made aware of this but, when the car 
was returned to her, she brought the further damage and missed repairs to Advantages 
attention straight away. I cant see Advantage took any proactive steps to resolve this 
directly with Mrs M and there was minimal correspondence with her in the time Id have 
expected it to resolve the issues raised. Nor has Advantage been able to provide evidence V 
contacted Mrs M to do this on its behalf. I therefore consider it more likely Mrs M was put in 
a position where she had to mitigate her loss. She did this by buying another car and using 
her own car in part payment towards this. In light of the damage sustained (both accident 
related damage which wasnt fully repaired and additional damage caused while her car was 
with Advantages agents), this was at a significantly reduced value. I consider these steps to 
have been reasonable in all the circumstances.   
Under ICOBS 8.1 Advantage must handle claims promptly and fairly, provide reasonable 
guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate information on its progress 
and settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed. Given the lack of evidence 
provided by Advantage to show it complied with ICOBS 8.1, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
I havent seen representations from either party that the Investigators recommendations for 
Advantage to put things right arent a fair or reasonable way to resolve the complaint. I 
therefore dont see any reason to substantially depart from them.
 
I turn now to the car seats in Mrs Ms car at the time of the accident. At the time the second 
FRL was sent to her, Advantage was waiting for Mrs M to send it evidence of the cost of the 
new car seats. This isnt an unreasonable position for Advantage to take at the time and I 
havent seen any evidence this had been sent to Advantage sooner. From the claim notes, I 
understand a settlement sum of £300 for car seats has since been approved and paid to Mrs 
M in May 2023. If payment hasnt been received and the evidence was sent to Advantage, Mrs M would need to raise this as a further complaint with Advantage, giving it the 
opportunity to investigate and respond in the first instance. 
I also note Mrs M was unhappy the matter has been recorded as a fault claim and an excess 
taken. Its also impacted her no claims discount (NCD). In the second FRL, Advantage 
explained this is because liability hadnt been confirmed nor any amounts recovered from the 
third party. Given the position of the claim at the time of the second FRL, I havent seen 
anything to suggest this was unreasonable at the time. However, if Mrs M is unhappy with 
the position once these issues are finalised, this would also need to be raised with 
Advantage as a new complaint issue.
Putting things right
To put things right, Advantage Insurance Company Limited should do the following:
1. Pay the difference between £2,033 (the part exchange amount Mrs M was given for 
her car) and the market value of Mrs Ms car on the date Mrs M had the accident (21 
August 2022). 
2. Add 8% simple interest to the amount under point 1 from 31 October 2022 (the date 
Mrs M sold the car) to date of settlement.
3. Pay £10 per day loss of use to Mrs M for the period from 20 September to 31 
October 2022.
4. Pay a further £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs 
M.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman