DRN-2610470
The complaint
Ms T complains about the interest rate Santander UK Plc has charged on her mortgage. She 
feels shes been unfairly declined lower rates over the years, and has overpaid as a result.
What happened
Ms T has an interest only mortgage with Santander. When she took out the mortgage, it was 
on a fixed rate of interest until 2010, when her mortgage reverted to Santanders standard 
variable rate (SVR).
 
Ms T says shes been struggling financially since 2010, but whenever she asked Santander 
about the possibility of switching to a lower interest rate, she was told shed have to go 
through a full affordability assessment which she didnt think she would pass. She managed 
to continue paying the SVR during her difficulties but says she had to make sacrifices 
elsewhere.
In 2016 Ms T complained to Santander about the fact they hadnt offered her a lower interest 
rate. She also complained that the bank hadnt reasonably considered her requests to switch 
the mortgage to repayment, or extend the term.
Santander issued a final response letter on 6 April 2016. They explained that they offer 
products based on an overall view of the individual customers relationship including risk 
profile, debts elsewhere, loan to value and repayment method. They said the rates are 
subject to change, and that there were other rates available to Ms T at the time the response 
was sent, and invited her to call them to discuss these. They said that in order to switch the 
mortgage from interest only to repayment they would need to check this was affordable for 
her, but she could call them to discuss this. The letter gave Ms T her referral rights to our 
service, and explained she had six months to contact us if she wanted us to consider her 
complaint.
In August 2017 Ms T successfully applied for a fixed interest rate product on the mortgage. 
When this ended in 2019, she successfully applied for a new rate again. However, she also 
complained to Santander about the fact that these rates hadnt been offered to her before 
when shed asked between 2010 and 2017.
Santander issued another final response letter on 24 June 2019. The bank didnt uphold the 
complaint, and explained that they were unable to offer rates to customers who did not fit 
their criteria, although they were unable to say exactly why Ms T wasnt offered a new rate 
sooner than 2017. They said it would have depended on her circumstances at the time.
In August 2019 Ms T brought her complaint to our service, but Santander didnt give our 
service consent to look into it. They said the complaint had been brought to us out of time, 
as theyd sent Ms T a final response letter about this issue in 2016. Our investigator looked 
into things and explained that Ms Ts complaint about not being offered a lower rate since 
2010 had been brought out of time. He didnt think the complaint had been brought late due 
to exceptional circumstances. However he did say we could consider Ms Ts complaint about 
not being offered a lower rate from April 2016 onwards, as that time period wasnt addressed 
in the final response letter.
 
Santander said they considered the whole of Ms Ts complaint to be out of time based on the 
six and three year time limit in the rules, as Ms Ts mortgage moved onto the SVR in 2010, 
and shes been aware of that ever since. So they didnt think we could consider any part of 
Ms Ts complaint.
The complaint was passed to another investigator who agreed that the complaint about the 
rate charged between 2010 and 2016 had been made out of time under the six month rule. 
He also explained that for the period of time since then, he wasnt upholding the complaint 
as Santander had told Ms T there were rates available and she could call to discuss them. 
But she didnt do this until 2017, and he didnt think this was Santanders fault.
Ms T responded and explained she couldnt recall receiving the response in 2016, which 
could have been down to the stressful and emotional time she was going through. She also 
said that as the final response was sent to her by secure mail online and not by letter, she 
wouldnt have seen it. She sent us another letter she received from the bank in 2016 which 
didnt mention anything about being able to apply for a new interest rate so she received 
conflicting information.
Our investigator explained that hed seen evidence to show the final response had been sent 
to Ms T via secure mail and that this message had been marked as read. So he was 
satisfied that Ms Ts complaint about the interest rate charged before April 2016 had been 
made out of time. He also explained that each time interest was charged on the mortgage, 
this was a separate event, so he wasnt persuaded the whole of Ms Ts complaint was out of 
time based on the six and three year time limit. So he could consider the interest rate 
charged since April 2016. Having done so, he didnt uphold the complaint.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a decision that said we could only consider 
Ms Ts complaint about the fact Santander hadnt offered her a new interest rate product 
from April 2016 onwards, as the rest of Ms Ts complaint had been brought out of time.
The complaint has now been passed back to me to issue a decision on its merits. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms T has said that she was aware of the fact her mortgage was on Santanders SVR, and 
also that Santander did offer lower interest rate products to customers. Her complaint is that 
Santander didnt offer her one of these lower interest rates sooner than they did in 2017.
As explained in my previous decision, I can only consider Ms Ts complaint from April 2016 
onwards. And as she successfully applied for a new rate in August 2017, what remains for 
me to decide is whether Santander should have applied an interest rate product to Ms Ts 
account between April 2016 and August 2017.
When Ms T complained in 2016, Santander told her in their final response letter that there 
were other options available to her, including a fixed rate of 2.99%. The letter provided a 
number for Ms T to call to discuss these options. Ive looked at the contact notes for the 
mortgage account, and can see that there was no contact from Ms T until August 2017 when 
a new rate was agreed.
 Having looked at the letter Santander sent to Ms T in April 2016, Im satisfied it was clear 
that there were interest rate products available to her, and what she needed to do to apply 
for one. I appreciate Ms T says that she doesnt remember receiving the letter, as it wasnt 
sent by post. But as I explained in my previous decision, Im satisfied this letter was sent and 
received as Santander have provided evidence to show this.
Ms T has also told us she was going through a stressful and emotional time, and shed 
received other correspondence from Santander around that time which didnt mention 
anything about interest rates being available to her. 
I can appreciate that due to the difficulties Ms T was going through around that time, trying to 
find a better deal for her mortgage account was unlikely a priority for her then. But whilst I 
empathise with the reasons behind this, Im not satisfied that means Santander should have 
done anything differently during that period.
Whilst Santander was aware of Ms Ts intent to take out a new interest rate product, I would 
not consider it reasonable for a lender to apply an interest rate product to a borrowers 
mortgage without first discussing it. Santander had told Ms T what she needed to do to apply 
for a rate, and so I consider it was for Ms T to reach out to Santander if she wanted to take 
advantage of that.
Its unclear what did prompt Ms T to contact Santander again in 2017 about this, but when 
she did, they offered her a new rate.
 
Overall, whilst I appreciate Ms T feels let down by Santander for how theyve treated her 
over the years, Im not persuaded theyve acted unfairly during the period of time Ive been 
able to consider. Santander gave Ms T information about what was available to her and what 
she needed to do to apply, but Ms T didnt act on this until over a year later. Im not 
persuaded that was because of any unfair treatment by Santander.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman