DRN-2434272
The complaint
Ms Z has complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited refused to cover the cost of her 
genetic testing after she made a claim under her private medical insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2018, Ms Z was due to be leaving her employers group private medical 
scheme, which was held with AXA. She asked AXA about transferring to an individual policy. 
She made clear that she had an ongoing condition which required further investigation.
AXA confirmed that Ms Z was able to transfer to an individual policy with a continuation of 
her existing underwriting terms. However, it made errors when describing the cover which 
would be available under the new policy.
When these errors came to light, just before the policy was due to start, Ms Z complained to 
AXA. She did not take out the policy while AXA was investigating her complaint. 
In January 2019, AXA issued a final response letter to the complaint. It acknowledged it had 
misdescribed the cover. It also clarified the policys terms on genetic testing as it considered 
it had previously given the wrong impression that this was likely to be covered. It furthermore 
clarified the policys terms on chronic conditions. It outlined three different policy options 
which it was prepared to offer Ms Z, under each of which cover would be backdated to 
November 2018.
Later in January 2019, after speaking on the telephone to AXA, Ms Z decided to accept one 
of the offered options.
Shortly afterwards, Ms Zs treating rheumatology consultant diagnosed her as suffering from 
Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome (EDS). In March 2019, he recommended that Ms Z should see a 
consultant in clinical genetics (who Ill call Dr S) for his opinion on whether she should 
undergo genetic testing to determine whether her particular condition was vascular EDS.
Ms Z asked AXA to provide cover for the consultation with Dr S. AXA said it would need 
more information before it could agree to this.
Ms Z went ahead with the consultation in any case. Dr S recommended that Ms Z should 
undergo genetic testing to determine whether her particular condition was vascular EDS.
Ms Z provided AXA with Dr Ss report outlining the above. However, although AXA 
eventually agreed to provide cover for the consultation, it refused to provide cover for the 
cost of the genetic test on the grounds that even if Ms Z were to be diagnosed with vascular 
EDS it would apparently make no difference to her treatment.
Ms Z complained to AXA about its decision. She provided a letter from Dr S dated April 2019 
in which he confirmed that if it was known that Ms Zs condition was vascular EDS it would 
have important implications for her treatment, in particular because he would start 
prescribing a particular licensed drug.
In June 2019, AXA issued a final response letter not upholding the complaint. It said her 
claim for genetic testing was not eligible under the terms of the policy, particularly given that 
the drug cited by Dr S was not licensed to treat vascular EDS. It was satisfied it had made 
clear the policy terms in respect of genetic testing in its final response letter of January 2019, 
as well as in the telephone call with Ms Z later that month.
Ms Z was unhappy at AXAs response. She referred her complaint to us. She said she had 
ended up paying the £2,000 cost of the genetic test herself and she thought AXA should 
reimburse her this amount.
Our investigator ultimately recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She 
considered that Ms Z was out of time to complain about the misleading information she was 
given before taking out the policy because AXA had addressed that issue and provided 
clarification of the policy terms in its final response letter of January 2019. She was satisfied 
that AXA had acted fairly and in accordance with the terms of the policy when it declined the 
claim for the cost of the genetic testing.
Ms Z didnt accept the investigators findings. She said she was suffering from a rare 
condition which required that she was treated by a specialist. She said her specialists had 
advised she needed to undergo the genetic testing and they were best placed to decide on 
her appropriate treatment in light of the results of such testing. She therefore considered that 
AXA was wrong to rely on such things as guidelines by the National Institute for Health and 
Care Excellence (NICE) rather than the opinions of her specialists.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy states the following:
What is not covered for genetic tests, preventative treatment and screening tests?
We do not pay for:
preventative treatment, such as preventative mastectomy; or
routine preventative examinations and check-ups; or
genetic screening tests to check whether:
oyou have a medical condition when you have no symptoms; or
oyou have a genetic risk of developing a medical condition in the future; or
othere is a genetic risk of you passing on a medical condition.
genetic tests to identify a medical condition where the result of the test isnt proven to 
change the course of treatment. This might be because the course of treatment for your 
symptoms will be the same regardless of what medical condition has caused them; or
any other preventative treatment or screening tests to see whether you have a medical 
condition if you do not have any symptoms; or
vaccinations.
What is covered for genetic tests?
We will pay for genetic testing when it is proven to help choose the best course of drug 
treatment for your medical condition. This means that it must be recommended in the drug licence for a specific targeted therapy, such as HER2 testing for the use of Herceptin for 
breast cancer.
I consider that AXA has given conflicting reasons for why it would not cover the cost of the 
genetic testing. These reasons have included that Ms Z had already been diagnosed with 
EDS and it would not cover testing to determine which variation of this condition she was 
suffering from. I consider that AXA was wrong to say this. Under the terms of the policy, AXA 
was obliged to cover the testing if this was proven to help choose her best course of drug 
treatment provided that the drug in question was licensed for her condition.
In Ms Zs case, Dr S had confirmed in a letter to AXA that if the genetic testing showed she 
was suffering from vascular EDS it would affect her course of drug treatment. This therefore 
indicates that AXA should perhaps be covering the cost of the test. However, Dr S went to 
explain that the drug he would prescribe was Celilopril. Contrary to what Dr S said in his 
letter, Celilopril is not licensed for the treatment of vascular EDS. This means that, under the 
terms of the policy, AXA was not obliged to cover the cost of the genetic test.
Ms Z has questioned AXAs decision and has argued that Dr S is best placed to decide on 
her appropriate treatment. Let me clarify that I dont dispute that the recommendation for 
Ms Z to undergo the genetic test was clinically appropriate, nor do I dispute that Dr S is more 
expert than AXA in deciding what treatment is right for Ms Z. However, the policy doesnt 
promise to cover all treatment which is clinically appropriate and it clearly explains the limited 
conditions under which genetic testing will be covered. Celilopril has not been approved by 
the relevant bodies for use in treating vascular EDS and although Dr S thinks it would be of 
benefit to Ms Z I dont consider that is sufficient reason to say the terms of the policy should 
be ignored. I consider it was fair for AXA, under the terms of the policy, to decline her claim 
for genetic testing.
Ms Z says that AXA misled her into believing her claim would be covered. If this were the 
case, and Ms Z incurred unnecessary costs as a result, I could ask AXA to compensate 
Ms Z accordingly. However, I dont believe that AXA did mislead her in this way as I explain 
below.
AXA did provide wrong information to Ms Z in November 2018. However, it addressed these 
errors, and provided clarification of the policy terms in respect of genetic testing, in its final 
response letter of January 2019. Im satisfied that this final response letter set out the terms 
of the policy correctly and that Ms Z had no reason to say she had been misled once she 
received that letter. If Ms Z was unhappy about the response shed received, she should 
have referred her complaint to us within six months of that letter which she failed to do. 
I therefore consider that Ms Z is not able to cite the wrong information she was given in 
November 2018 as a reason why AXA should now pay her claim.
Following receipt of the January 2019 final response letter, Ms Z had further conversations 
with AXA in which she discussed the policys cover for genetic testing before she agreed to 
take out the backdated policy. I have listened to those calls. I am satisfied that AXA did not 
promise Ms Z that a claim for genetic testing would be covered. On the contrary, the adviser 
said that more information would be required before a decision could be made.
I therefore consider that Ms Z had no reasonable grounds for assuming, either at the time 
she took out the policy or at the time she underwent the testing, that the cost of genetic 
testing would be covered by her policy.
I note that the policy states:Please call us before you have any genetic tests to confirm that we will cover them. Your 
specialist might want to do a variety of tests and they might not all be covered. The cost to 
you might be significant if the tests arent covered under your plan.
Unfortunately, Ms Z went ahead with her genetic testing without obtaining confirmation from 
AXA as to whether the cost would be covered by her policy. I understand why she made that 
decision, given the importance of the tests to her. However, for the reasons given above, 
I consider that AXA acted fairly in declining her claim and it therefore doesnt need to pay her 
anything towards the cost of the tests.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman