DRN-3885228
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined their claim, after 
informing them it would be covered. For ease, Ill mainly refer to Mr W in my decision.
What happened
Mr W complained to Aviva after the insurer declined to cover a contents insurance claim for 
a sofa. He was unhappy that Aviva initially told him that the claim would be covered, but then 
it chose to decline the claim a few days later.
Aviva apologised, explaining that its initial call handler had made an error. The insurer 
offered Mr W £200 compensation. Mr W remained unhappy and asked this service to carry 
out an independent review of his complaint. Mr W wants Aviva to cover half the cost of a 
replacement that he purchased, which is around £3,000. He also wants the insurer to waive 
any excess he may need to pay and ensure his future premiums are not affected.
Our investigator decided that Aviva had resolved this matter fairly. Mr W didnt agree  he 
says the initial acceptance of the claim was a legally binding agreement that Aviva should 
honour. Because Mr W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im of the view that Aviva has offered a fair resolution to this complaint. Ill 
explain why:
The discussion that took place between Mr W and Aviva during the first call isnt 
under dispute. Aviva agrees it wrongly informed Mr W that the claim would be 
accepted.
Looking at the insurers terms, it doesnt seem to me that a claim such as this one is 
covered by Mr Ws policy. So Aviva acted fairly when it later told him that it couldnt 
pay the claim.
Mr W says the discussion during the initial call forms a legally binding agreement that 
Aviva will pay the claim. Its not within my remit to make a finding on whether the 
telephone discussion formed an agreement in which the parties are bound by law.
My duty is to decide what I think is fair and reasonable. Keeping this in mind, I think 
its important to note that, like all businesses, Aviva is susceptible to human error. 
And it seems to me that this is what has happened here. The important point here is 
what the insurer has done to put things right and whether I think this is enough to 
fairly resolve this complaint.
Aviva contacted Mr W a few days following the initial call to apologise for its error and 
to clarify that it wouldnt be accepting the claim. The insurer also offered £200 
compensation to put things right. I think this is fair  the error was put right within a 
short period, and I havent seen anything that makes me think the impact of Avivas 
error is enough to warrant additional compensation. 
Mr W wants Aviva to cover half the cost of the replacement sofa he purchased. But I 
dont find that this would be a reasonable outcome. According to Avivas terms, the 
insurer wouldnt have covered this type of claim at all. So, although I accept that 
Aviva got things wrong at the start, that isnt a persuasive enough reason for me to 
ask Aviva to depart from its terms and pay a claim that it doesnt cover under this 
policy.
It also seems to me that Mr W didnt experience a loss because of what Aviva did 
wrong. Although he did go on to purchase a replacement, this seems to be several 
weeks after Aviva informed him that it had declined the claim. Irrespective of this, 
Avivas terms wouldnt have allowed for this claim to be paid at all. So its unlikely I 
wouldve determined it fair to uphold this complaint even if Mr W had completed his 
purchase sooner.
So Ive decided that I wont be instructing Aviva to accept this claim and pay the costs Mr W 
has asked it to. If Mr W hasnt already accepted the £200 compensation and would now like 
to, he should contact Aviva directly.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman