DRN-4352247
The complaint
Mr H complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited (AIL) has offered a reduced 
settlement for a claim he made on his home insurance policy.
Reference to AIL includes its agents and representatives. Such as the administrator, B, who 
Mr H has been dealing with.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr H took out home insurance in December 2021 through a broker, G. The policy 
was underwritten by AIL.
In July 2022, there was a water leak on the ground floor of Mr Hs home which 
caused damage. He got in touch with AIL to make a claim.
AIL accepted the claim in principle, but it didnt agree to pay for all of the damage.
AIL said around 25% of his building had a flat roof  but when he took out the policy, 
hed said only 5% of it did. It said if it had known that, it would have charged a higher 
premium  £470 instead of £190. As a result, Mr H had only paid around 38% of the 
premium he should have done and AIL only offered to pay 38% of the claim.
Mr H didnt think this was fair and made a number of points:
oHe thought hed said 25% when taking out the policy.
oThe flat roof was irrelevant to the claim.
oThe premium increase of around 150% was unrealistic  with other insurers 
the change from 5% to 25% flat roof covering either made no difference to the 
premium or up to a 20% increase at most.
AIL said Mr H hadnt provided the right information to his broker when taking out the 
policy. In line with the relevant law, it was entitled to proportionately settle the claim.
Our investigator said Mr H hadnt provided the right information and agreed with AIL 
that it was entitled to settle the claim proportionately. He was satisfied AIL had shown 
it would have increased the premium as it said it would and it was entitled to do that. 
He didnt think it mattered whether the flat roof was relevant to the claim or not. But 
he thought the complaint should be upheld because AIL had made Mr H pay an 
additional premium  and that wasnt in line with the relevant law.
AIL disagreed. It said it had only charged an additional premium for the remainder of 
the policy year after the claim (July to December 2022) to ensure Mr H was fully 
insured had he needed to make another claim.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is solely against AIL, so I can only consider the activities it was 
responsible for as the underwriter of the policy. I cant consider any activities the 
broker, G, was responsible for. Mr H is entitled to raise a separate complaint about G 
if he wishes.
AIL wanted to know what proportion of the roof covering of Mr Hs building was flat. It 
was Gs responsibility to ask Mr H about that, provide any relevant guidance and 
support to him, and accurately share his answer with AIL. G told AIL the answer was 
5%. AIL setup the policy, including calculating the premium, on that basis.
After the claim was made, AIL didnt think 5% was the right answer. The relevant law 
for this situation is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (or CIDRA). It places a duty on the consumer to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation. In summary, if Mr H fulfilled that duty, AIL can take no 
action. If he didnt fulfil that duty, CIDRA sets out the remedies available to AIL  and 
that can include proportionately settling the claim. The onus is on AIL to show that Mr 
H didnt take reasonable care  and, if he didnt, what impact that had on AIL.
Under CIDRA, it doesnt matter whether the alleged misrepresentation is relevant to 
a claim. Its about whether the insurer received reasonable information with which to 
setup the policy and decide what premium to charge, as well as what terms to set. If 
it didnt receive reasonable information and that caused it to undercharge the 
premium, CIDRA allows it to remedy that situation.
AIL says Mr H should have told it the flat roof made up over 25% of the roof covering. 
So Ive looked at the available evidence to decide what a reasonable answer would 
have been.
AIL appointed a loss adjuster, who visited and measured the property. They said the 
garage and office had a flat roof which was around 22.34 square meters. They also 
said the dwelling was 114 square meters. I havent seen any evidence from Mr H that 
might challenge these measurements, so I accept them at face value.
However, I dont understand how the figure of 25% has been reached. Dividing the 
garage and office area by the dwelling area gives a figure of around 19%. And if the 
measurement for the dwelling doesnt include the flat roof area, which I dont think it 
does, the figure is around 16%. So it seems the proportion of flat roof covering, as 
measured by the loss adjuster, is actually 16-19%, not 25%.
Nonetheless, that means Mr Hs answer was unreasonable. But it changes the 
impact of that unreasonable answer on AIL. AIL accepts Mr Hs misrepresentation 
was careless.
Mr H says he originally paid £190 for the policy. That included a loading of 15% for 
the flat roof covering based on his unreasonable answer. AIL has shown that an 
answer of 25%+ roof covering would have meant a 200% loading. Mr H has 
questioned this, but AIL is entitled to charge whatever premium it considers is 
appropriate for the risk involved in providing insurance in the circumstances presented. Its provided an underwriting table to show its approach to risk for roof 
covering, so I accept what it says.
Had Mr H answered 16-19%, the loading would have been 25%. That would have 
meant a slightly higher premium than he paid  but significantly less than AIL says he 
should have paid. There appear to be more factors involved in the premium 
calculation than the loading, so I dont know exactly what impact the change of 
loading has. But I estimate the premium with a 25% loading would have been around 
£200. It follows that the proportion of premium Mr H has paid is likely over 90%. 
Which is significantly greater than the 38% AIL said it would settle the claim for.
As a result, Im not satisfied AIG has treated Mr H fairly. To put things right, it should 
calculate the premium on the basis his answer was 16-19%. It should then settle the 
claim based on the proportion of premium Mr H paid compared to the calculated 
premium. Other policy terms and conditions, such as the excess, can still be taken 
into account.
Because of this dispute, I understand AIL hasnt paid Mr H the settlement it offered. 
Hes carried out some work at his own expense but hasnt been able to complete it 
all. This means the damage has persisted, at least to some extent, for much longer 
than it should have done had AIL offered to settle the claim fairly. As result, Im 
satisfied AIL should pay compensation for this impact on Mr H. Im satisfied £250 is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
As our investigator has pointed out, CIDRA doesnt give AIL the right to charge any 
additional premium. Under the law, it has to keep the policy in place and let Mr H 
know that any further claims made during the policy year will also be proportionately 
settled. He could choose to cancel the policy at that point if he wished, but he 
wouldnt have to.
However, whilst its not provided for under CIDRA, I consider its fair and reasonable 
for an insurer to offer a consumer the chance to pay an additional premium to be fully 
insured  as long as it makes clear the position under CIDRA and that the additional 
premium is optional. Its then for the consumer to decide which option suits them 
best.
Mr H paid around £117 to remain fully insured for the remainder of the policy year. 
The only communication Ive seen about this says, the balance of premium will need 
to be paid in order for your insurance policy to continue. I dont think this is in line 
with the position I set out above. It gives the impression Mr H had no choice but to 
pay the additional premium. Whilst that communication came from G, I understand it 
was acting on AILs behalf when doing so. That means AIL was responsible for that 
communication.
Its difficult to estimate now what Mr H would likely have done had AIL communicated 
in line with CIDRA and/or the fair and reasonable approach I set out above. But at 
the time this was happening, the policy didnt have very long until the renewal, so the 
risk of Mr H having to make another claim, under which he would have been 
underinsured, was low. Because of that, I think hes unlikely to have paid an extra 
premium if hed known his options. To put that right, AIL should refund the additional 
£117 premium he paid.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr H said he accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.AIL didnt agree with my provisional decision and made some further points. In summary:
The flat roof covering percentage was calculated on the basis the garage roof was 
22.34 square meters and the main house roof was 65 square meters. This was 
confirmed by the loss adjuster.
In addition to Gs letter about the additional premium, AIL spoke to Mr H. It says it 
made things clear to him during that call.
The claim wasnt settled earlier because Mr H said he would be challenging the 
decision. The loss adjuster told him to keep all receipts pending the outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr H agreed with my provisional decision in full and AIL only made the three points 
above, I understand everything else is agreed and doesnt require further comment. Ill focus 
on those three points that remain in dispute.
Flat roof percentage
Its agreed the flat roof garage is 22.34 square meters. The disagreement is about the main 
house.
The loss adjuster report says the dwelling is 114 square meters. Its unclear whether that 
includes the garage. But, as I set out in my provisional decision, in either case the result is 
the same as 16-19% is in the same underwriting group. The report doesnt mention any 
other figures for the size of the building, roof and/or the percentage of flat roof covering.
A follow-up email from the loss adjuster says, the main pitched area is 65 square meters. 
Theres no other explanation and/or diagrams to accompany this statement that might show 
where the figure has come from, why it wasnt mentioned in the report or why it differs from 
the 114 square meters mentioned in the report. So Im not clear on why 65 square meters 
has been used as the main house figure. With this lack of clarity, I dont think it would be fair 
to simply take the lower figure at face value.
During our investigation, AIL has been asked for more information about this but no further 
material evidence has been provided. Given the significant impact on Mr H of the figures, I 
would expect to see clear and persuasive evidence to show the flat roof covering was indeed 
at least 25%. The evidence provided doesnt achieve that in my view. So Im not satisfied it 
would be fair to settle the claim on the basis the flat roof covering is at least 25%. Im 
satisfied that basing settlement on the lower percentage roof covering is a fair outcome 
given the evidence provided. That means an increased percentage of the claim value.
Additional premium
Ive listened to the call Mr H had with AIL. It told him it had given G the additional premium 
figure and asked it to contact Mr H to pay it. The intention was to charge an additional 
premium for the remainder of the policy year. It said if Mr H paid it, that would mean he 
would be fully insured for the remainder of the policy if he were to make another claim.I think that call added more of an explanation than Gs letter. But it still wasnt in line with the 
requirements of CIDRA I set out in my provisional decision. Mr H wasnt given the options he 
should have been in order to make an informed choice about whether to pay or not.
AIL has said its process doesnt include offering any options. Whilst that may well mean its 
own process has been followed, Im not satisfied the relevant law has. I wouldnt expect 
AILs process to place Mr H in a worse position than set out by the law.
So my view on this point hasnt changed.
Delay settling claim
The key point is that AIL treated Mr H unfairly by offering to settle the claim at around 38% 
when, in my view, it should have been significantly more  seemingly around 90%. Had the 
claim been settled at the higher amount, its likely Mr H would have been able to get the 
repairs carried out in full sooner.
Because that didnt happen, Im satisfied hes suffered avoidable distress and inconvenience 
as a result of AIL treating him unfairly. So I remain satisfied compensation is appropriate.
Overall
Ive thought about all the points AIL has raised in response to my provisional decision. But, 
for the reasons above, I havent been persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to change the findings in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited to:
Settle the claim at the increased proportion, as set out above.
Pay £250 compensation.
Refund the £117 additional premium paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman