DRN-4236702
The complaint
Mr B complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money he lost when he was the victim of a 
scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In May 2023 Mr B was the victim of an HMRC impersonation scam. He received a call from 
the scammer, threatening him with criminal charges unless he paid £1,000  thereby 
avoiding arrest and unblocking his passport. Mr B has explained the scammer knew all his 
banking information, sent him a PDF with his name on HMRC letterheaded paper showing 
the charges, and connected him to another telephone number which he believed to be the 
criminal court in London (as he searched it online). 
Mr B made the following payments to the scammer:
Date (time) Type Amount
11 May 2023 (10:31) Faster payment £500
11 May 2023 (10:53) Faster payment £500
Total: £1,000
Mr B realised hed been scammed when, after making the payments, the scammers went 
silent. He contacted Revolut to inform them of the scam but they explained they wouldnt 
reimburse the payments as, before the payment authorisation, they had protections in place 
to warn him about the risk of sending the funds. 
Revolut also sent a final response letter to Mr B which, in short, said:
Their account terms say theyll try to get the money back from the beneficiary but 
recovery isnt guaranteed. And they would let Mr B know the recovery outcome via 
their in-app chat support as soon as the process was finalised. 
The payment was detected as being made to a new beneficiary and they provided a 
warning which explained if Mr B was unsure whether he knew and trusted the payee, 
he shouldnt pay them as they may not be able to help get his money back. Mr B 
acknowledged this warning and continued with the transfer.
They also detected the transfer as out of character and it could be a scam. So, they 
stopped the transfer and directed Mr B to their blog in which they instruct their 
customers on the different types of scams. After dismissing this warning, Mr B was 
free to make another transfer to the same beneficiary. 
Revolut isnt liable for these authorised transactions and theyd treated Mr B fairly, 
fulfilling their duty to protect him. 
Later that day, Revolut told Mr B theyd try to recover the funds from the beneficiary account 
but theyd received confirmation that no funds remained. 
Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He set out how the scam occurred 
but also explained that it has had a significant impact on him  causing financial hardship, 
affecting his mental health and his ability to deal with his day-to-day needs.
Our Investigator considered the complaint but he didnt think Revolut had to do anything 
further. He said he didnt think the two £500 payments wouldve been sufficiently unusual or 
suspicious to Revolut to have expected them to have done anything more than the in-app 
warnings they provided. Because of this, he didnt think Revolut ought to have prevented the 
scam. 
Mr B disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. Mr B feels Revolut 
should be responsible for the fraudulent activities he fell victim to and, in short, has added:
Revolut shouldve had suspicions regarding the payments given their value and the 
unusual nature of the transactions. It is their responsibility to detect and prevent 
fraudulent activities, particularly involving large sums of money.
Revolut provide the in-app warnings every time a payment is made to a new account, 
even if its a family or friends account. Since it shows up for every payment, its 
difficult to know whether the payee account is legitimate.
These warnings were insufficient in mitigating the risk and Revolut shouldve taken 
additional steps, such as contacting him by phone or webchat, to ascertain the 
legitimacy of the transactions before processing them.
Revolut wouldnt reveal the payee bank details or the account holder names after he 
notified them of the scam. And this matter shouldve been easy to sort given he 
raised the complaint within 24 hours. 
He also questions why banks provide accounts to scammers and whether theres any 
background checks undertaken when transactions happen with them frequently.  
He contacted Revolut as soon as the scam call ended but it took them more than two 
hours to respond via their chat.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr B has been the victim of a scam and lost a significant amount of money. I want 
to assure him that I dont underestimate the impact this has had on him, both financially and 
on his personal life. But it would only be fair for me to direct Revolut to refund his loss if I 
thought they were responsible. And, for similar reasons as our Investigator, Im not 
persuaded that this was the case. Ill explain why. 
Revolut isnt signed up to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code which can offer 
a potential means of obtaining a refund following Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams. 
Ive therefore considered whether Revolut should reimburse Mr B under any of their 
obligations.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that an electronic money institution (EMI), such 
as Revolut, is expected to process payments their customer authorises them to make. It isnt 
disputed that Mr B knowingly made the payments from his Revolut account and so, Im 
satisfied he authorised them. Therefore, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and 
the terms of their account, Revolut are expected to process Mr Bs payments and he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.However, taking into account regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for Revolut to 
take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr B to Revolut were unusual 
enough - in relation to his typical account activity  to have expected Revolut to have 
identified Mr B was at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Having reviewed Mr Bs account statements, it was typically used for low value day to day 
spending along with the occasional higher value payment (of several hundred pounds). The 
two £500 payments were, therefore, for more than Mr B normally spent on his account in a 
typical day. And so, I think it was reasonable for Revolut to provide Mr B with the online 
warning that he shouldnt proceed with the payment if he was unsure he knew or trusted the 
payee. I also believe it was appropriate for Revolut to direct Mr B to their scam blog  which 
gave advice on how to be fraud aware.
I understand Mr B says, given the online warning appears on all payments, it was difficult for 
him to ascertain whether the payee was legitimate. I appreciate Mr B was under duress at 
the time of the scam, given he was being threatened with criminal charges, and so wouldve 
been less likely to have taken the time to stop and read the warning. I cant however fairly 
hold Revolut responsible for this, or if Mr B didnt act on the warning due to it being provided 
on other payments too. I think it was reasonable for Revolut to have provided the online 
warning, regardless of whether it had been provided previously, before proceeding. 
Mr B thinks Revolut shouldve gone further than providing online warnings before processing 
the payments, such as contacting him by phone or webchat. Although Revolut should be on 
the lookout for signs their customers are at risk of financial harm from fraud, they  like other 
banks and EMIs  must strike a balance between allowing customers to be able to use their 
account and questioning transactions to confirm theyre legitimate. And here, I dont think the 
two £500 payments were so unusual or out of the ordinary  given Mr B had previously 
made payments of several hundred pounds  for Revolut to have suspected Mr B was at 
significant risk of financial harm from fruad. Because of this, I wouldnt have expected 
Revolut to have done anything more before following the instructions Mr B gave.
Im aware Mr B is also unhappy about how long it took Revolut to respond when he first 
contacted them about the scam, and that they wouldnt reveal the payees details to him. He 
also feels the matter shouldve been easy to sort as he contacted Revolut within 24 hours of 
the scam happening. 
Having reviewed the chat history, I can see that it took about an hour for Revolut to respond. 
While I appreciate this delay wouldve been worrying for Mr B, Im satisfied that, even if they 
had responded sooner, it wouldnt have made a difference to the recovery of funds. This is 
because the beneficiary account provider confirmed the funds had already been moved prior 
to Mr B notifying Revolut about the scam. And, although I appreciate Mr Bs reasons for 
wanting the payees details, Revolut couldnt disclose them for data protection reasons  
which, given Revolut are required to comply with relevant data protection legislation, I think 
was reasonable.
On a final note, Mr B has questioned why accounts are provided to scammers and what, if 
any, background checks are undertaken when transactions happen with them frequently. 
Although I understand Mr Bs concerns, Im only looking at the actions of Revolut here  so, 
Im not considering how the beneficiary account was set up by the scammer or what checks 
the provider carried out. Revolut did however notify the payees account provider upon being 
notified of the scam, as Id expect, and it was then for that provider to act on that information. I know this wont be the outcome Mr B is hoping for but, for the above reasons, I dont think 
Revolut is responsible for the loss he suffered. It follows that Im not going to tell them to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman