DRN-2697285
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Lloyds Bank (Lloyds) debited money 
from his savings account to make a payment due on his credit card and didnt honour an 
agreed payment arrangement. 
What happened
In March 2020, Mr P says he contacted Lloyds about his credit card account on which a 
monthly payment was due in April 2020. He says he told Lloyds that the Covid-19 pandemic 
had affected his income as he was unable to work. He says Lloyds offered to freeze his 
monthly payments - including interest and charges, for three months without any impact on 
his credit file. Mr P says he accepted this arrangement and that his direct debit mandate in 
favour of his credit card was cancelled.
But Mr P later noticed a payment had been taken out of his savings account. So, he 
contacted Lloyds to clarify what had happened. He told Lloyds that the money in his savings 
account was for essential expenditure. 
Lloyds acknowledged that Mr P had contacted it in March 2020 to discuss his financial 
situation. But it says that it didnt agree to a three-month payment deferral. Rather, it says it 
agreed that Mr P could miss his April payment and it would waive interest and any late 
payment or over limit charges for that month. It also said that Mr Ps direct debit was 
cancelled. 
But it acknowledged that at this point it should have also stepped in to ensure its right of set 
off process was stopped. It apologised that this hadnt happened, refunded the payment it 
had taken and offered Mr P £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
when Mr P contacted it. 
It also says that at this point, it did offer Mr P a three-month payment deferral as - by this 
time (April 2020), guidelines had been introduced by the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. But Lloyds says Mr P did not accept 
the payment deferral as he felt the terms were different to what he had been offered before. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response Mr P referred the complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it but concluded that Lloyds had done enough to put things right. She noted that 
the money transferred from Mr Ps savings account had been refunded. And she thought the 
£75 compensation offered in relation to this was fair. But she explained that the payment 
deferral (available when a consumer is impacted financially as a result of the covid-19 
pandemic) allowed three monthly payments to be missed but that interest would still accrue. 
Mr P didnt accept this outcome. He said, in summary, that Lloyds acted incorrectly when it 
moved money out of his savings account, so he thinks more compensation is due.  But the 
investigator didnt agree. So, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to broadly the same overall conclusions as our investigator. I 
know Mr P will be disappointed with my decision, so Ill explain why.
I will address Mr Ps complaint points separately:
Payment deferral
Mr P has suggested that Lloyds agreed a three-month payment deferral in March 2020. And 
that included a suspension of interest and charges for the same period. So, Ive listened to a 
recording of the call between Mr P and Lloyds from March 2020.
Having done so, Im satisfied that as this point Lloyds offered a waiver for that coming 
months payment. In the call Lloyds explained this meant that Mr P could miss the payment 
due in April 2020 and that charges and interest for that month would be waived. Lloyds also 
said  during the same call, that if Mr P needed longer term assistance, he should contact its 
customer support team nearer the time his next payment was due. So, Im satisfied that Mr P 
wasnt offered a three-month payment deferral  with interest and charges suspended, in 
March 2020.
Its not in dispute that Lloyds did offer Mr P a three-month payment deferral in April 2020 
when he called Lloyds customer support team. Nor is it disputed that this offer didnt include 
the suspension of interest and charges. But I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in not 
offering Mr P a suspension of interest and charges. 
I say this because by 9 April 2020 (as a result of the covid-19 pandemic), the FCA had 
issued guidance to lenders which indicated that three-month payments deferrals should be 
offered to those customers whose income was directly impacted by the pandemic. But Im 
satisfied that the guidance didnt include the requirement for lenders to suspend interest. As 
Mr P has said his income was impacted by the pandemic, I think it was reasonable for 
Lloyds to offer Mr P the payment deferral on these terms. And it was for Mr P to decide 
whether to accept those terms.
If Mr P is continuing to experience financial difficulties, I would urge him to contact Lloyds to 
see how it might be able to help him further at this time. But I dont think Lloyds did anything 
wrong in respect of the offers it made to Mr P to help with his financial difficulties in March 
and April 2020.
Right of set off
Generally, a lender has whats known as a right of set off. This means if a payment is due 
on an account and is not paid, the lender can transfer the amount of payment due from 
another account in that customers name - if funds are available. But, as mentioned above, 
Lloyds had previously agreed that Mr P wasnt required to make the April payment due to his 
credit card account. So I agree with P that, in these circumstances, Lloyds acted incorrectly 
when it used its right of set off to transfer funds from Mr Ps savings account to make the 
payment due on his credit card in April 2020. 
But Lloyds has already accepted it made a mistake in this respect and it has refunded the 
money it transferred within a few working days and it paid £75 compensation to Mr P. So, my role here, is to decide if that is enough to put right any financial loss and/or any distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
As Lloyds refunded the amount transferred, Im satisfied Mr P has not made a financial loss 
as a result of the right of set off being implemented. From what Ive seen  despite the 
funds being transferred out of his savings account, Mr P still had enough funds to meet his 
essential expenditure. So, other than having to contact Lloyds to sort the matter out, I dont 
think Lloyds mistake had any material impact on Mr P. So, I think the compensation offered, 
£75, is fair. So, I wont be asking Lloyds to increase its offer of compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint - in the sense that the offer made by  
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Lloyds Bank, as set out above is fair.   
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Lloyds Bank should now pay Mr P £75 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused if it hasnt already done so 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman