DRN-4273162
The complaint
Miss M and Mr M have complained about damage charges applied by Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) under a hire 
purchase agreement.
To keep things simple, Ill refer to Miss M throughout because shes the main complainant. 
What happened
In January 2020 Miss M acquired a used car under a hire purchase agreement with MBFS. 
The car was just over five years old, and I believe had covered around 42,000 miles. It cost 
around £13,500 and was due to be paid back over five years. 
In September 2022 Miss M decided to voluntary terminate the agreement. MBFSs agents 
carried out an inspection on the car when it was collected. And it carried out another 
inspection a few days later at the agents inspection site, which looks to be around 100 miles 
away. The car had covered around 67,500 miles.
MBFS said Miss M owed it around £1,000 in relation to damage that was outside of fair wear 
and tear. Miss M complained. She said the car was eight years old, and that shed returned it 
in excellent condition. She said there was no damage on the car when it was handed back. 
She says when she bought the car, she paid for a care package to cover all paintwork and 
damage to alloys. And that she used this to have the bumper fixed. She said she had 
evidenced the car was without damage when it was handed back. MBFS eventually agreed 
to remove the charge for the bumper, but Miss M was still unhappy. She says she shouldnt 
have to pay for damage that wasnt there or should be considered wear and tear. And that it 
was unfair MBFS was charging £300 for tyres when the car was eight years old. 
MBFS said the following charges were applicable:
Tyre Right Hand Rear, gouge £149.22 
Tyre Left Hand Rear, incorrect speed rating £149.22 
Headlamp Left Hand, insecure £35.00 
Quarter panel Left Hand Rear, dented 50mm to 100mm £90.00 
Door Right Hand Rear, requires realignment £35.00
Bumper moulding rear, insecure £35.00 
Tailgate pad, scuffed over 25mm £50.40 
Door window trim Right Hand Rear, excessive damage £34.20 
Door moulding Right Hand Rear, excessive damage £50.40 
Door moulding Right Hand Front, excessive damage £50.40 
Door shut inner Right Hand Rear, non-professional repair £105.00
Its asked Miss M to pay £783.84 for the above. 
Miss M brought her complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt make any 
recommendations because she thought MBFS had applied the charges fairly. Miss M didnt 
agree. She said she didnt think everything shed sent in had been considered. She said the 
video shed sent was clear and in perfect lighting. She reiterated the scuffed tailgate wasnt 
there when the car left her home. She said the dent was caused by someone reversing into 
something, which caused the bumper moulding issue. She also said the rear left quarter 
panel wasnt dented and wouldve been noted on the first inspection if it was. She also 
reiterated that being charged around £300 for tyres on a car that is eight years old is unfair 
and excessive. She says the car wasnt supplied with that sort of tyre. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
Miss M acquired the car using a regulated hire purchase agreement, and our service is able 
to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
Damage Charges
I note the vehicle return standards are set out within the hire purchase agreement itself. The 
agreement sets out that when the car is returned it must be in line with the vehicle return 
standards. And it also says if the vehicle has not been returned within those standards 
MBFS is able to charge costs for either repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle, as compensation. 
As a starting point, Im satisfied that by signing the agreement, Miss M agreed to the terms. I 
therefore dont find MBFS is acting unfairly by applying charges for damage that falls outside 
of fair wear and tear, as per the return standards. 
Ive gone on to think about whether (or not) the damage falls outside of those standards. 
Tyre Right Hand Rear, gouge £149.22 
The return standards say its not acceptable for the tyre to have any gouges, cracks, cuts, 
tears or plugs. The second inspection highlights what looks like a gouge with a close-up 
picture. But from looking at the initial inspection, I think the gouge can be seen there too. So 
Im satisfied this damage falls outside of fair wear and tear. Damage to the sidewall of a tyre 
can be a safety issue. Miss M agreed to the return standards when signing the agreement, 
and I dont find a charge of £149.22 to be unfair. Ive not seen anything to say MBFS will 
only charge the equivalent of a second hand or non-premium brand tyre either. 
Tyre Left Hand Rear, incorrect speed rating £149.22 
The return standards say the car must conform to the original specification. And that it must 
have matching tyres of a size and premium band, approved by the manufacturer. The 
second inspection says the left-hand rear tyre was the incorrect speed rating. MBFS has 
said the tyres must be the same type as those originally supplied, for example run flat tyres. 
Im not sure the speed rating is incorrect. Its showing as W, and MBFS hasnt supplied 
details of why this isnt acceptable. But I note from the pictures that the rear tyres dont 
match. Aside from it being outside the return standards, its also recommended to have the 
same tread on the tyres on an axle. And as the return standards say they should match, I 
dont consider its unfair for MBFS to charge for the price of a replacement tyre. And for the 
same reasons as above, I dont consider a charge of £149.22 to be unfair. 
Headlamp Left Hand, insecure £35.00 
MBFS has said it cant accept missing, cracked, or damaged door mirror glass and housing 
units. So if the housing unit for the headlamp was damaged I think this would fall outside of 
fair wear and tear. But the problem I have is that its not clear at all from the evidence 
supplied what, if anything, is wrong. The photo doesnt clearly show the headlamp housing is 
damaged or insecure, from what I can see. And the video doesnt show it either. Im not sure why the inspector didnt show the damage on the video if it would have been easier to show 
the headlamp wasnt secure. But based on what Ive seen, Im minded to say this charge 
should be removed as well. 
Quarter panel Left Hand Rear, dented 50mm to 100mm £90.00 
MBFS says the left-hand rear quarter panel was dented between 50mm to 100mm. Its 
vehicle return standards say dents on swage lines or folder edges arent acceptable. And 
that dents on high profile panels i.e., bonnets/wheel arches arent acceptable either. The 
return standards say dents must be smaller than 13mm. From looking at the picture on the 
second inspection the area highlighted by the collection agents isnt very helpful. Its 
disappointing the dent wasnt picked up on the original inspection. I think there might be 
some indication of a small dent towards the left of the ruler. But I dont think the picture 
shows its between 50mm to 100mm. It would have been helpful if the inspection had 
something like a zebra board used so that it would be easier to see if there was a dent. And 
it wouldve helped if the clarity was better to see how large any dent area was. On balance, 
given it wasnt picked up originally and the photo isnt very clear Im minded to say this 
shouldnt be charged. 
Door Right Hand Rear, requires realignment £35.00
The inspection report says the door requires realignment. I can see theres an area to the 
top of the window that looks to have misaligned slightly, which wouldnt be acceptable under 
the return standards. I dont find a £35 charge for this to be unfair. 
Bumper moulding rear, insecure £35.00 
Similar to the point above, the second inspection shows the bumper moulding has come 
away slightly, indicating it was insecure  which isnt acceptable as per the return standards. 
I dont find the charge of £35 is unfair. 
Tailgate pad, scuffed over 25mm £50.40 
The return standards say the interior of the vehicle must be in a good condition for the age 
and mileage of the vehicle. I can see there is some sort of mark on the tailgate pad. But the 
photo is not particularly clear. Its not clear whether the mark could be removed with 
cleaning. Given the car was around eight years old when it was handed back, I dont find 
theres sufficient evidence to demonstrate the mark would deem the interior not to be in good 
condition. So Im minded to say this charge should be removed as well. 
Door window trim Right Hand Rear, excessive damage £34.20 
I can see the trim for the right-hand rear window is misaligned and looks like its been 
damaged. I think this isnt acceptable as per the return standards. I dont find the charge of 
£34.20 to be unfair. 
Door moulding Right Hand Rear, excessive damage £50.40 
I dont consider the photo of the damage to the right-hand rear moulding to be very clear. Its 
not obvious which part is damaged. Theres lots of areas with light reflected on the photo. 
Ive not seen enough to show this is damaged outside of fair wear and tear taking into 
account this was an 8 year old car  even taking the return standards into account. So I find 
this charge should be removed. Door moulding Right Hand Front, excessive damage £50.40 
Unlike with the right-hand rear, I think the photo on the second inspection shows the door 
moulding is damaged because the line of the door under the window deviates from where 
youd expect it to. I consider this to be outside of the return standards. And I dont consider a 
charge of £50.40 to be unfair.
Door shut inner Right Hand Rear, non-professional repair £105.00
I think theres enough to demonstrate theres damage that outside of fair wear and tear in 
relation to the door shut inner on the right-hand rear. It looks like the paintwork is 
significantly damaged which is outside of the return standards. I dont consider the £105 
charge to be unfair. 
Summary
I appreciate Miss M has said some of the damage mightve been caused after the first 
inspection. And that other damage should be considered fair wear and tear considering the 
cars age and mileage. Ive been mindful of the age of the car when considering the vehicle 
return standards. Ive considered the evidence Miss M has submitted. And Ive thought about 
the likelihood of the damage occurring after the car was collected. I dont think the nature of 
the damage that Ive set out above (not highlighted on the original inspection) suggests they 
most likely occurred during the trip from the collection to the inspection centre. While I 
appreciate the car wasnt brand new and that it looks like, on the whole, Miss M has looked 
after it, I think the damage highlighted above would likely lead to repair costs or it would 
collectively impact the resale value of the car. 
Therefore, for the reasons given above, to resolve the complaint, Im intending to direct 
MBFS to remove the charges for:
Headlamp Left Hand, insecure £35.00 
Quarter panel Left Hand Rear, dented 50mm to 100mm £90.00 
Tailgate pad, scuffed over 25mm £50.40
Door moulding Right Hand Rear, excessive damage £50.40 
MBFS agreed to carry out the actions within the provisional decision. Miss M responded to 
say she was still unhappy with the charges for the tyres. She doesnt think its fair shes 
being charged the cost for what she says are high-end tyres when mid-range tyres ought to 
be sufficient. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their responses. I do appreciate its a lot of money to have to 
spend for two new tyres. But as I said in my provisional decision, I think the two charges 
have been applied for fair reasons. And Ive not seen anything to suggest MBFS is not able 
to charge for a premium brand, or that the tyres wont be replaced with a premium brand. 
The pricing matrix for the vehicle return standards say it can charge for replacing with a 
premium brand tyre. So, while I can understand why shes disappointed, I dont find I have 
the grounds to direct MBFS to remove or reduce the charges. If Miss M accepts the final decision, Id urge her to get in contact with MBFS about the 
outstanding debt. If shes unable to pay off the debt in one go, Id remind MBFS to treat her 
with forbearance and due consideration.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance to remove the charges Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman