DRN-4443346
The complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide Building Society wont reimburse money he lost as a result 
of a scam.
What happened
Mr D fell victim to an impersonation scam. He was contacted by someone claiming to 
represent a bank which he holds an account with (that Ill call C). He was told that his 
account was at risk. After apparently securing his account with C, he was told that his 
account with Nationwide was also at risk. He was transferred to someone claiming to 
represent Nationwide.
The caller said that hed need to move money to a new secure account. He initially tried to 
move his money directly from Nationwide to C, but was unable to do so because he lacked a 
card reader. As an alternative, he was advised to open an account with another firm (that Ill 
call R) and move his money into that account instead. Mr D moved £2,000 from his account 
at Nationwide to his new account at R. He did this by way of a card payment using Apple 
Pay.
He was then instructed to move £2,000 from his account at R to what he believed was a 
secure account at Nationwide. Unfortunately for Mr D, hed been speaking to a fraudster and 
he hadnt sent money to his own account, but one that the fraudster presumably controlled. 
Mr D became concerned at being asked not to disclose the situation to friends or family, so 
he contacted his mother (who represents him in this complaint). She thought that hed been 
the victim of a scam and advised him to contact the various firms involved.
Both R and Nationwide said that they werent responsible for his loss. Nationwide said that 
the loss had occurred from his account at R, so he should contact it to recover his funds.
 
Mr D complained. He referenced various codes of practice, including the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code), and argued that Nationwide 
had not done enough to protect him from financial harm, particularly considering his young 
age.
Mr D referred the matter to our service, but one of our Investigators didnt uphold his 
complaint. They didnt think that Nationwide could have reasonably suspected that Mr D was 
falling victim to a scam.
Mr Ds representative didnt agree. She thought that Nationwide should have been extra 
vigilant for the risk of fraud, given Mr Ds young age, and she couldnt understand how the 
caller knew so much information about him. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mr D. Hes been the victim of a cruel scam 
and I can only imagine how upsetting this has been for him. But Im afraid that Im unable to 
hold Nationwide responsible for his loss. Ill explain why.
Under the relevant regulations, the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Mr D is responsible 
for payments hes authorised himself. Theres no dispute about that here.
Nationwide are signatories to the CRM Code, but unfortunately for Mr D, the CRM Code 
does not cover all payment types and journeys. It excludes card payments (like this one) and 
payments made to a customers own account. So, I cant apply the provisions of the CRM 
Code to this complaint. 
Instead, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Nationwide 
should fairly and reasonably have been on the lookout for out of character and unusual 
transactions or other indications that its customer might be at risk of financial harm from 
fraud. 
Im afraid that, even taking into account Mr Ds relatively young age, I dont think Nationwide 
should have recognised that Mr D was at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Mr D made a single payment of £2,000 using his registered device. While I recognise that 
the amount of the payment was somewhat unusual for Mr D (though he had made similarly 
sized or larger transfers in the previous year, albeit seemingly to an established payee, likely 
his own account), the payment did not drain his account (the balance was more than £4,000 
after the payment was made) and while the value of the payment is clearly hugely significant 
to Mr D, I cant see that it would have stood out  such that the amount alone would have 
caused Nationwide significant concern. 
Overall, I cannot fairly and reasonably say that Nationwide should have been sufficiently 
concerned about this payment that it ought to have intervened and discussed the payment 
with Mr D before it was processed. 
Finally, Ive considered Nationwides attempts to recover Mr Ds money. It isnt disputed that 
from R, Mr Ds money was sent to another account, presumably controlled by the fraudster. 
R hasnt been able to recover his money, so it follows that neither could Nationwide. And, a 
dispute through the chargeback scheme (which allows card payments to be disputed in 
some circumstances) would not have been successful as R deposited money into Mr Ds 
account as instructed and therefore provided the service that Mr D requested.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr D and its important to state that he is not to 
blame for what happened. He was the innocent victim of a sophisticated scam  seemingly 
one in which a significant amount of his personal information was known to the fraudsters. 
But I cant take that into account here, I can only consider the role of Nationwide. And, I cant 
fairly say that it is responsible for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman