DRN-3765347
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Startline 
Motor Finance Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 10 June 2022, Mr D was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Startline. He paid the dealership £2,000, trading a car in part exchange, and the 
agreement was for £14,999 over 60 months; with 59 monthly repayments of £362.38, and a 
final payment of £372.38. At the time of supply, the car was around four years old and had 
done 25,494 miles.
Two days after being supplied with the car, the engine management light (EML) came on. 
He took it back to the dealership, who said theyd repaired the problem. However, the EML 
came on again shortly afterwards. Mr D tried to reject the car, but the dealership refused. So, 
Mr D complained to Startline.
Startline instructed an independent engineer to inspect the car. The engineer noted a 
number of issues with various warning lights and said these issues wouldve been 
developing at the point of supply. However, Startline took no action, instead saying they 
were waiting for the dealership to accept rejection of the car. So, Mr D brought his complaint 
to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that Startline had failed to co-operate with our investigation  failing to 
provide any evidence or comments. However, based on the independent engineers report, 
the investigator said there were issues with the car that were present when it was supplied. 
And, because Mr D had asserted his short-term right to reject the car, he should be allowed 
to do so. 
The investigator said that, because Startline had settled the outstanding finance on Mr Ds 
previous agreement, then they were entitled to keep the £2,000 hed paid. However, they 
should unwind the agreement and collect the car; refund Mr D all the payments hed made 
since 12 June 2022 (when he stopped using the car) plus interest; remove any adverse 
credit relating to the agreement from his credit file; and pay him £500 compensation for the 
significant distress and inconvenience hed suffered.
Mr D agreed with the investigator, but Startline didnt respond. Instead they told Mr D that 
theyd received the funds from the dealership for the rejection of the car, but they had no 
duty of care towards him. Because of this, they wouldnt be reimbursing him any funds on 
the unwinding of the agreement. And, on 26 September 2020, they told him the agreement 
had now ended. 
Despite this, Mr D has provided evidence that Startline are still reporting his agreement as 
active, and not settled, to the credit reference agencies, with an outstanding balance of 
£21,430. And hes said that this is stopping him taking out any further credit for a 
replacement car.
Because of this, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr D was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Startline are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Startline can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr D to show it was present when the 
car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr D took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Startline to put this right.
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report on the car, dated 15 July 2022. This 
report said that when the engine was started the EML, traction control, ABS and tyre 
pressure monitoring light displayed  the cooling fan is permanently on and the vehicle 
appeared to be idling, unevenly. The engineer considered that the faults made a road test 
impossible i.e. the car couldnt be driven, and concluded these issues would have been in 
the development stage at the point of sale.
The CRA allows for a short-term (30-day) right of rejection when the car is faulty. It also 
allows for rejection where a repair has been attempted, but the faults still remain. As is the 
case in this instance. However, as Startline have accepted that Mr D is able to reject the car, 
my decision will now concentrate on what should be done to remedy the situation. 
Putting things right
Where a car is being rejected, Id usually expect the finance company to refund the deposit 
paid and clear the outstanding finance at no cost to the customer. However, Ive seen a copy 
of the dealerships invoice, which shows that Mr D paid them £2,000 towards clearing the 
finance on the car he was part-exchanging. So, Im satisfied this wasnt a deposit, and 
therefore shouldnt be refunded to Mr D.When rejecting a car, Id also expect the customer to pay for the usage they had. In this 
instance, Mr D was supplied with a car on 10 June 2022, and he only got a few days use 
from it before it couldnt be driven  by not being able to conduct a road test because of the 
faults, the independent engineers report confirms that the car was undrivable. And Mr D 
wasnt supplied with any alternate transport i.e. a courtesy car, by either the dealership or 
Startline. 
As such, Im satisfied that Startline should refund any payments made after the car became 
undrivable.
Finally, Mr D has suffered a substantial amount of distress and inconvenience with whats 
happened. Without access to transportation, hes had difficulties getting to work, which has 
had an impact on his income. And this has affected his ability to pay his rent, meaning that 
his home has been put at risk. The situation has also had an impact on Mr Ds mental health, 
resulting in him receiving medical treatment. Whats more, Startlines actions relating to the 
credit reporting has impacted Mr Ds ability to obtain finance on an alternate car.
The investigator has recommended Startline pay Mr D £500 compensation for the impact of 
their action. And, given the circumstances described, Im satisfied this is something I 
wouldve recommended, had it not already been done. So, this recommendation will be 
adopted as part of my final decision.
So, Startline should:
(if not already done so) end the agreement with nothing further to pay, and collect the 
car at no cost to Mr D;
refund all the payments Mr D has made after 12 June 2022, when he stopped using 
the car;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refund, calculated from the date Mr D made 
the payments to the date of the refund ;
remove any adverse information relating to this agreement from Mr Ds credit file, 
ensuring that the agreement is shown as being settled with the credit reference 
agencies; and
pay Mr D an additional £500 for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered as a 
result of being supplied a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Startline to take off tax from this interest. Startline must 
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and Startline Motor Finance Limited 
should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman