DRN-3292856
The complaint
Mr W trading as S has complained to his broker Trust Insurance Services Ltd (Trust) about 
the way claims were recorded on a central database under a commercial motor insurance 
policy arranged by Trust. Mr W is unhappy with the impact the claims had on the premium 
he paid for personal car insurance.
What happened
Mr W contacted his broker Trust to complain about the way two claims under his commercial 
insurance policy had been recorded on a central database. He didnt think it fair that claims 
made against the commercial policy should have an impact on his personal motor insurance. 
Trust contacted the insurer responsible for recording the claims. The insurer changed the 
details about the driver for each claim from Mr W to the employee(s) driving when the claims 
were made. 
Trust didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said that the insurer is responsible for recording 
claims on a central database and as Mr W is the policyholder acting on behalf of S, he will 
be the lead name on the record. The drivers involved in the incidents had been changed on 
the central database by the insurer. But the insurer decides if the claims will have any impact 
on the premium Mr W pays. Trust said it didnt make a difference if the policyholder was 
listed as the company name - or as Mr W trading as the company name (S).
Mr W remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator didnt 
recommend it should be upheld. He thought Trust in their role as broker had acted 
reasonably and done what it could to resolve Mr Ws complaint by contacting the insurer. He 
explained that any issue about the premium being charged and the recording of information 
on the central database was something Mr W would need to raise with the insurers. The 
insurers set the premium and are responsible for what is recorded on the database, not 
Trust as the broker. 
The investigator explained that Trust had recorded the name for the policy as company S 
on its records. 
Mr W didnt agree. He says if Trust hadnt provided his name to the insurer, there wouldnt 
have been a connection to him personally for the recorded claims against the commercial 
policy.
So as Mr W didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Trust acted as a broker when Mr W trading as S bought the policy. As a broker it arranges 
and administers the policy. But the broker doesnt set the premium and it doesnt record 
claims information. The insurer is responsible for these things. 
When Mr W raised his complaint, I think Trust carried out a proper investigation and resolved 
the complaint in their capacity as a broker. I think it clearly explained its role and the role of 
the insurer when it replied to Mr Ws complaint. 
I understand Mr W will be disappointed. But I dont think Trust needs to do any more as I 
dont think it did anything wrong. As the Investigator explained, Mr W is free to raise any 
remaining concerns about the premium he pays and how claims are recorded against the 
appropriate insurer. And how an insurer records the information on the database in 
connection with the lead customer for a company policy is also a matter for them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman