DRN-4094383
The complaint
Mr E complains about Nationwide Building Society, formerly Aegon, referred to as the 
business.
Hes unhappy about the loss in value of his cash ISA following the delayed transfer from his 
Stocks and Shares ISA, and believes the business is responsible for this.  
To put things right, hed like compensation for losses claimed.  
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
The business isnt responsible for the loss in value of the ISA which can happen 
during a transfer owing to external factors.  
In this instance Mr E decided to sell down his investments and transfer to cash due to 
market volatility and theres likely to have been market movement that resulted in the 
drop in value. 
The transfer request was made on 25 August 2022 and completed by 14 November 
2022. Although this was outside of the 30-day HMRC guidelines, the business cant 
be blamed for the delays. 
Selling the funds in order to facilitate the transfer can take time  for which the 
business isnt responsible. In the meantime, the markets can move resulting in a drop 
in value of the investment for which the business also isnt responsible.  
Shes seen nothing to suggest that the business made any errors, or in any way was 
responsible for the drop in value of Mr Es cash ISA. 
Shes seen no persuasive evidence to suggest that the business told Mr E, or led him 
to believe, that the value of his investment would remain the same after transfer.  
On 6 September 2022 the business asked Mr E to verify his signature, this wasnt 
done until 31 October 2022. Although he was out of the country at the time, and 
arguably couldnt respond sooner, its not something she can blame the business for.  
Since the business hasnt made a mistake, she cant say that the business is 
responsible for any losses claimed.   
Mr E disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
short, he made the following observations:
The request took longer than 30 days to complete. If the business wasnt at fault, 
who was?
At no time was he told that it would take 30 days to receive the money. It was only 
after he raised a complaint, he was told that it could take 21 days. 
He provided his signature on 25 August 2022, and a week later he was asked to 
bring in his passport to be photocopied. On 2 October 2022, he provided a photocopy 
of his passport and a cancellation form in relation a different investment. The form 
was received but not his photocopy even though the documents were sent in the 
same envelope  by then it was 31 October 2022.  
He didnt choose to cash in his ISA, he was advised to do so for tax purposes. 
Hes unable to provide further evidence of a conversation that took place. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said:
The 30-day ISA transfer timeframe provided by HMRC is a guideline. There might be 
reasons (outside of the businesss control) which mean it takes more time, but this 
doesnt mean that its at fault. 
The delays in this instance werent caused by the businesss error, therefore the 
business isnt responsible for any losses claimed.  
The business asked for the signature to be verified around 10 days after the 
application was initiated but the verification wasnt provided until over a month later. 
The interest was backdated to 25 August 2022, which is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr E says, I cant safely say that 
the business behaved unreasonably, therefore, I cant blame the business for any financial 
losses claimed. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Es strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by him and the business, and reach what I think is 
an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
In this instance, I dont uphold the complaint, in brief, for the following reasons: 
The business isnt responsible for any financial loss that mightve occurred when this 
results from delays caused by matters that are outside of the businesss control and 
the business hasnt done anything wrong  which I believe is the case here. 
I think its likely that Mr E informed his IFA at some point between 20 and 23 August 
2022 that he wanted to cancel his investment. He, like his wife who has a separate but similar complaint, was probably worried about volatility. 
On 25 August 2022 the business was notified of his intentions, and an application 
was made for the cash ISA. At the time his ISA was valued at £121,527.84 but Ive 
seen no evidence that he was guaranteed thats what hed receive upon completion 
of the transfer.   
Given his concerns about volatility, its likely that a decision was made by him to sell 
down his investments, in consultation with his IFA. In any case, the transfer was 
done as per his instructions  at a time when the markets happened to be volatile  
and without any advice from the business. 
In any case, I note it was agreed that the ISA transfer would be best done at branch, 
so that he could open a cash ISA and transfer his existing ISA. Despite what Mr E 
says, Im not persuaded that he was told, or led to believe, that the cash ISA would 
be set up and the transfer would complete there and then. On balance, I think its 
likely he misunderstood what might happen and the time it was likely to take.  
I note that on 6 September 2022, Mr E was asked to verify his signature. I note that 
this was coincidentally also the date that Mr Es wifes ISA was sold. 
Its unlikely that the business wouldnt have sold his investment too if it didnt have 
issues relating to his signature. 
On balance I think its likely that the business attempted to sell Mr Es investment  
like his wifes  but couldnt because the signature wasnt verified, so requested the 
verification. Despite what Mr E says, the suggestion that the business had what it 
needed to proceed, but didnt of its own volition, is unlikely. 
Im aware Mr E was abroad and couldnt respond sooner, and further delays were 
incurred, but thats not something I can blame the business for. 
Theres also some suggestion that Mr E provided a photocopy of his passport when 
requested to do so, but the business didnt receive it which resulted in further delay. 
Whilst I dont blame Mr E for this, I also cant blame the business for not proceeding 
without having the information that it evidently required. Im aware that the 
outstanding issues werent resolved until 31 October 2022. 
I note on 4 November 2022 the investment was sold for £115,269.31 and received as 
cash on 10 November 2022. I note on 11 November 2022 additional interest was 
added and the money was transferred to the business. On 14 November 2022, the 
cash was received into Mr Es cash ISA  despite the business making clear that it 
could take up to five working days. In the circumstances and on balance, I dont think 
this timeframe is unreasonable, notwithstanding the passport verification issues.  
I appreciate Mr E is unhappy about the value of his cash ISA  compared to the 
value of his ISA prior to being transferred to cash. But despite what he says, there 
was no guarantee that he would get a specific sum, or the same value he was quoted 
earlier, once the transfer was complete. 
The value of the investment is dependent on the financial markets and not something 
that the business can predict or control. Its likely that the business notified him of the 
value of the ISA when the instructions were received, and he assumed thats what 
hed get upon completion. Im mindful the business strongly denies that Mr E 
wouldve been guaranteed a fixed value. 
Im mindful that the guidance allows that a transfer can generally take up to 30 days, 
and the value of the investment can fluctuate during this period. Its also possible that 
it can take longer, but if it does this doesnt mean that the business is automatically at 
fault. 
In other words, there were some delays in this case, but I cant safely say that there 
was any wrongdoing by the business, therefore I cant say that the business is 
responsible for any losses claimed.  
Its possible that Mr E wasnt told the process could take a set number of days, but I 
think its unlikely this was the case and/or that he was told the transfer would be 
instant  Ive seen correspondence that would suggest it could take 15 days and if it didnt the business would still pay interest from the day the request was made. So, in 
the absence of evidence to the contrary, I cant safely say that the business gave Mr 
E incorrect information. 
On balance, I think its unlikely given that he was speaking to the business and had 
an IFA working on his behalf, that he thought the transfer would be immediate. 
Despite what Mr E says, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think the 
transfer was completed within a reasonable amount of time. 
Like the investigator, I also cant see that the business has done anything wrong. 
Therefore, I dont think its responsible for any losses Mr E may have sustained.   
I appreciate Mr E will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate his frustration, Im not persuaded to require the business to do anything. In other 
words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman