DRN-3030530
The complaint
Mr D complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited wont amend information it is reporting to 
credit reference agencies concerning a hire purchase agreement.  
What happened
In August 2014, Mr D acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement from 
MotoNovo. The cash price of the car was £6,455.99. Mr D was required to make 47 monthly 
repayments of £189.46 followed by a final payment of £348.46.
Mr D started experiencing repayment difficulty around 12 months after taking out the 
agreement. While some of these arrears were repaid, MotoNovo eventually sold the 
outstanding debt to a third party. 
In 2020, Mr D complained to MotoNovo saying the agreement had been unaffordable to him 
from the outset and he should never have been given the finance. 
MotoNovo agreed that it hadnt lent responsibly to Mr D. It said that in resolution of the 
complaint it would buy the debt back from the third party and remove all the interest and 
charges from the outstanding balance. As Mr D was still in possession of the car it said this 
meant Mr D would only have to repay the capital back. Mr D had paid £4,435.86, so 
MotoNovo said it would reduce the balance to £2,020.13. It also agreed to pay £250 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr D had been caused. However, it said it 
wouldnt amend the credit file entry as it would otherwise show inaccurate information about 
his ability to repay the debt. 
Mr D said the adverse information should also be removed from his credit file and he also 
wanted MotoNovo to waive all or some of the outstanding balance. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She said that MotoNovo 
should remove the adverse information it was reporting on Mr Ds credit file, but only once 
the outstanding balance had been repaid. She didnt think it was reasonable to waive any of 
the capital balance because Mr D still had the car and was benefitting from its use. 
MotoNovo didnt respond so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MotoNovo has accepted it irresponsibly provided Mr D with a hire purchase agreement he 
couldnt afford. Ive therefore considered whether its proposed remedy is fair and reasonable 
in the specific circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has asked for some or all of the capital balance to be waived. However, like the 
adjudicator, I dont think this would be fair and reasonable. I say this because Mr D is in 
possession of the car and has used it. Our remedies are intended, as best as possible, to 
place consumers back in the position they would have been in but for the business actions. 
It isnt possible to unwind the lending decision completely because Mr D has acquired a car 
which he has used and continues to do so. This will be an asset that will belong to him once 
he has paid the sums due under the agreement and will still hold some value. So, I dont 
think it would be reasonable to also give him a further discount on the original purchase 
price. This is because it would place him in a better position than he would have ever been 
in but for Motonovos actions.
Ordinarily, I would have proposed different redress entirely to put things right. However, that 
would have resulted in Mr D having to return the car to MotoNovo which doesnt appear to 
be what he wants. Given he wants to keep the car and MotoNovo are agreeable to that, the 
fairest remedy in those circumstances would be for Mr D to only pay the cash price of the 
car, which is what MotoNovo has agreed to. 
MotoNovo says that it doesnt believe it would be reasonable or accurate to remove adverse 
information from Mr Ds credit file. It says this might cause other lenders to approve credit to 
Mr D without knowing he still has an outstanding balance which wasnt repaid on time. 
As MotoNovo accepts it shouldnt have given the finance to Mr D, his difficulty in repaying it 
back isnt a true and accurate reflection of his ability and willingness to repay credit at that 
time. This is because he would always struggle to pay back a finance agreement he couldnt 
afford. So, my starting point is that it wouldnt be fair for adverse information to be recorded 
with credit reference agencies in relation to this agreement, as that information wouldnt 
have been on there but for MotoNovos lending decision. 
However, I agree with MotoNovo that consideration needs to be given to the fact that despite 
removing interest and charges there is still a balance outstanding which Mr D needs to 
repay. In those circumstances I think its reasonable that the credit file reflects Mr Ds current 
outstanding balance and his previous repayment history. However, once the outstanding 
balance is repaid, MotoNovo should at that stage remove all adverse information it has 
recorded in relation to this agreement. And it should do so promptly.
As there is still an outstanding balance for Mr D to repay, MotoNovo should ensure it treats 
Mr D fairly in relation to his financial difficulty and that it sets up an affordable and 
sustainable repayment plan. 
Lastly, MotoNovo has also paid Mr D £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
its lending decision may have caused. Having thought about all the circumstances here, Im 
satisfied this is more than I would have awarded had no payment been made. I therefore 
dont propose to make any further award.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct MotoNovo Finance 
Limited to:
Remove all adverse information recorded against the hire purchase agreement with 
credit reference agencies once Mr D has repaid the original cash price of the car. It 
should ensure it does this within four weeks of Mr D repaying the capital back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman