DRN-3396279
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard hasnt paid an interest 
refund to him.
What happened
Mr Z says he received a letter from Barclaycard telling him that it had miscalculated interest 
and that he was due a refund. He says the refund was not paid direct to him but paid to a 
debt collection business that his debt had been sold to. Mr Z says the letter about the refund 
arrived late and didnt give him chance to dispute it. He says the payment should have been 
made direct to him.
Barclaycard says it carried out a review of Mr Zs account and refunded him interest. It says 
it also paid 8% simple interest on the refund which came in total to £486.79. Barclaycard 
says Mr Zs account defaulted some years before with a balance over £5,000 and says it 
correctly deducted the payment from that amount.
Mr Z brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclaycard acted fairly by sending the refund to the business that now owned the 
debt. The investigator didnt think Mr Z had ever paid that amount as the account defaulted 
with a large balance.
Mr Z doesnt accept that view and maintains Barclaycard paid the debt collection business 
before it said it had and before he was given a chance to oppose the payment. Mr Z also 
questions if the account ought to have defaulted and says he should be paid compensation 
for the stress this issue has caused him. And questions what would have happened if the 
mistake hadnt been noticed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
intend to comment on the compensation paid to Mr Z about the customer service issue as 
its clear that is not his complaint here or that he has asked for a decision on that.
There is no question here that Barclaycard made a mistake in calculating the interest owed 
by Mr Z. But Im satisfied that Barclaycard has apologised for what took place and has fairly 
refunded the interest as well as paying interest on the refund. Im also satisfied that Mr Z 
didnt pay the interest as his account defaulted with a significant balance of over £5,000. And 
its clear that Mr Z still owes the business that bought the Barclaycard debt a significant 
amount. So, I dont think Barclaycard made a mistake or acted unfairly by sending the refund 
to that business and not Mr Z. I think the business that bought the debt would have 
effectively overpaid for it and it fair and reasonable that the refund be deducted from the 
amount owed by Mr Z. 
I appreciate Mr Z questions why the account defaulted. But that is not something that 
Barclaycard has considered as part of this complaint and it is not something Mr Z originally 
complained about. So, it follows that I cant fairly comment on that issue.
I also appreciate Mr Z questions the sending date of the refund letter to him. I dont think it 
makes any difference and make clear to Mr Z that it doesnt affect this outcome. If I thought, 
there was a mistake then I could order the money be refunded to him regardless of when the 
letter was sent or when the money was received by the other business.
Mr Z questions what would have happened if the mistake hadnt been noticed. I can only 
comment on what did happen, that Barclaycard realised there was a mistake and fairly 
reduced the amount Mr Z owed. I dont think Mr Z was caused any stress or inconvenience 
by what took place, as he was completely unaware that there was a mistake in the interest 
calculation.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclaycard acted fairly by reducing the amount Mr Z owes and was not 
obliged to pay any refund direct to Mr Z in these circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman