DRN-1094229
The complaint
Mr O complains that Park Leisure 2000 Limited accepted a lower cash deposit than was 
required for him to purchase a holiday lodge. He says if it hadn't done so, he wouldn't have 
been able to purchase the holiday home and would be better off as he's now struggling to 
sell it. 
What happened
Mr O obtained a holiday lodge from Park leisure in 2017. The purchase price of the lodge 
was £148,000. Mr O paid a deposit of £23,800.72, this was made up of £2,000 cash a 
£3,000 deposit contribution from Park Leisure and the proceeds from part exchanging a 
different holiday lodge £18,800.72. The remainder (£124,199.28) was funded by a hire 
purchase agreement provided from a finance provider I'll refer to as B. 
As well as being the park where the holiday lodge is located, Park Leisure acted as a credit 
broker in arranging the hire purchase agreement. 
In April 2018 Mr O moved house and says he couldn't use the lodge as much as he would 
have liked so put it up for sale.
In October 2018 Mr O's wife visited the lodge and found signs someone had been staying 
there without their permission. Mr O says that a Park Leisure employee later confirmed that 
a member of staff had been living in the property without permission. 
Mr O complained to Park Leisure. He said that as well as the unauthorised use of his lodge 
the park employees hadn't bothered trying to sell the lodge as they'd been staying there. And 
he didnt think it was fair that if he sold the lodge privately he would need to pay Park Leisure 
15% of the sale price achieved. 
Park Leisure issued a response which said it We take these allegations extremely seriously 
and vehemently deny that you were told that an employee of Park Leisure had been allowed 
to live in your holiday home. We also deny that an employee has lived in your holiday home 
or that there has been a serious breach of your privacy." The response also explained the 
park had done all it was required to do to help him sell the lodge. 
Unhappy with Park Leisures' response Mr O asked our service to investigate. The 
investigator explained that we can only look at Park Leisures actions as a credit broker and 
a lot of Mr Os complaint points were about how Park Leisure as a holiday lodge site had 
treated him, so we couldnt look at those issues. But we could look at how the finance 
agreement was sold to him and whether Park leisure had made a mistake when doing so.  
Mr O asked us to look at complaints against B and Park Leisure. He complained that B as 
the supplier of the holiday lodge under the hire purchase agreement should be held 
responsible for the issues hed experienced. He wanted to sell the holiday lodge but thought 
he should get something back for doing so. B had made him aware he could voluntary 
terminate the agreement but he would still be required to pay B back around £24,000. The investigator who looked at Mr Os complaints explained that B had a responsibility to 
ensure the lodge provided was of satisfactory quality and she hadnt seen anything to 
suggest there were any problems with the lodge itself. So she concluded the lodge was of 
satisfactory quality and didnt ask B to do anything. Mr B accepted her assessment on his 
complaint about B. 
Mr O also explained he thought the agreement had been mis-sold to him by Park Leisure. 
He said that a minimum 10% deposit was required for the hire purchase agreement. But he 
couldn't afford the 10% deposit on a purchase price of £148,000. He said the salesman 
reworked the figures and added a contribution of £3,000. He said that he should never have 
been accepted for the agreement, and if Park leisure hadnt made a mistake 
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Os complaint about Park Leisure looked at how the 
agreement had been sold. she concluded that Mr O had actually paid more than 10% 
deposit because the part exchange value of his previous lodge was included as part of the 
deposit. 
Park Leisure accepted her assessment but Mr O didnt. He said that the part exchange value 
shouldnt have been taken into account; hed always been informed Park Leisures policy 
was that deposit needed to be made up of cash. And that if the part exchange equity was to 
be considered as a deposit he wouldnt have been required to make any cash deposit as 
there was sufficient equity in the old lodge to cover the deposit. 
He also explained that when tried to upgrade to a different lodge in 2018 his application 
hadnt been accepted because he didnt have enough cash to make up the 10% deposit. He 
pointed out that the lodge had since been repossessed by B as hed been out of work and 
unable to keep up with repayments. 
Because Mr O didnt accept the adjudicators findings the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
While Im sympathetic to the issues Mr O has experienced; Im limited into what I can look 
into as part of this complaint. I can only consider Park leisures actions when carrying on a 
regulated activity, which in this instance means its actions as a credit broker. I think its also 
important to point out that in considering this complaint Ive only thought about                Park 
Leisures actions, not Bs. 
The level of deposit required to secure lending is up to the finance provider and/or credit 
broker to determine based on its own underwriting criteria. So what I need to think about in 
this complaint is whether Park Leisure followed Bs policy when submitting the application for 
Mr O. And if it didnt what impact this had on Mr O. 
 
 Ive spoken with B and its confirmed that it accepts part-exchange proceeds as part of the 
deposit for new agreements. And I dont see any reason why it wouldnt; essentially Mr O 
ended his first agreement by selling his first lodge back to Park Leisure. The funds from the 
sale were used to pay off the outstanding finance agreement and the surplus was Mr Os 
money to spend how he saw fit. Mr O then used those funds as part of the deposit for his 
new lodge.
B has confirmed that the deposit it requires depends on the customers individual 
circumstances and the amount being borrowed. But in this instance it required a minimum 
deposit of 10%. The total deposit used for Mr Os agreement was £5,000 and the part-
exchange equity of £18,800.72 which equated to a 16.08% deposit. As this in excess of 
whats required by B (even if I were to discount the deposit contribution made by            Park 
Leisure) I dont think Park Leisure made a mistake in arranging this hire purchase agreement 
for Mr O. 
Mr O has said that he wouldnt have paid any cash deposit if part-exchange equity could be 
used. But Park Leisure has explained that its policy is that a minimum of £2,000 of the 
deposit be paid in cash.  I think this is in line with what happened in Mr Os case so I dont 
think Park leisure has made a mistake in this regard.  
Ive also thought about what Mr O has said about the third lodge he tried to buy. Hes said if 
the equity in lodge 1 was enough to cover the deposit for lodge 2 then the same should have 
been true when he tried to buy lodge 3 which cost around £225,000. He says this shows 
Park Leisure doesnt accept part-exchange equity as part of the deposit.  
I have havent seen any paperwork or application in regard to the third lodge. But 
nonetheless I dont agree with Mr Os argument. The equity in his first lodge meant that        
Mr O could pay off the outstanding finance and had a surplus of £18,800.72. But I havent 
seen anything to show that after part-exchanging the second lodge and paying off the 
outstanding finance Mr O would have a surplus of £20,500 or more.  So, I dont agree this 
shows Park Leisure doesnt accept part-exchange values to fund deposits. 
Overall I dont think Park Leisure has made a mistake when arranging the finance for Mr O 
so Im not asking it to do anything to settle the complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award against Park Leisure 2000 Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Christopher Bick
Ombudsman