DRN-4141103
The complaint
Miss T complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money she lost when she fell victim to an 
investment scam.
Miss T is being represented by solicitors in her complaint.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
The complaint concerns 10 transactions totalling around £24,000 which Miss T made to a 
cryptocurrency exchange using her Revolut card between May and July 2022. Miss T says 
she made the payments in connection with an investment opportunity promoted by a 
company, M, which she subsequently discovered was a scam. 
Although Miss Ts Revolut account was opened in July 2020, the first payment out of the 
account wasnt until 23 May 2022, when she made the first payment in dispute. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, 
even when they are duped into making that payment. Theres no dispute that Miss T 
made all the disputed payments using her security credentials, and so they are 
authorised. But in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a 
payment service provider, including an electronic money institution like Revolut, 
should be on the look-out for and protect its customers against the risk of fraud and 
scams so far as is reasonably possible. If it fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably to alert it to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be fair and 
reasonable to hold it liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result.
Revolut is an electronic money institution (EMI), not a bank or building society. EMIs 
are set up with the purpose of sending and receiving money and the type of 
payments theyre generally used for tends to be somewhat different to banks and 
building societies. Often, the payments will be for larger sums. Where theres no 
previous account history, what should reasonably strike Revolut as concerning for a 
first payment isnt down solely to the transaction amount involved. I havent seen any 
other factors at play here such that, in my view, Revolut should have been concerned 
and ought to have intervened and questioned Miss T before executing her authorised 
instruction for a payment of around £2,700. Purchasing cryptocurrency is a legitimate 
exercise. 
The second payment, for just over £2,500, was authorised twenty minutes later. 
Between these two payments, there were two declined transactions to the same 
merchant. Revolut has provided technical data which shows that the transactions 
were declined due to insufficient funds. But given multiple attempts to send money to 
a cryptocurrency exchange in a relatively short period of time, I consider the second 
authorised payment ought to have given grounds for suspicion. In the circumstances, 
I consider the provision of a warning which covered scam risks involving 
cryptocurrency would have been a sufficient step for Revolut to take. We know that 
no such warning was provided at the time. But as the investigator explained, and I 
agree, such a warning is unlikely to have stopped Miss T in her tracks.  
There were no regulator warnings published about M at the time of the payment. 
Having carried out a backdated search on the internet, I havent been able to find any 
adverse information about it either. From what her representative has said, I can see 
Miss T did research M on the internet and found nothing suspicious about it; in fact, 
she saw positive Trustpilot reviews. Reviewing her submissions to Revolut when she 
reported the scam, I also understand that Miss T found M on the Companies House 
register during her research. And that since engaging with M, the scammer was in 
constant communication with her and provided reassurances. 
So, even if Revolut had provided a warning specific to cryptocurrency scams, given 
there was no adverse information about M in the public domain, and the scammer 
who was in regular contact with her and would have been able to provide 
reassurances, Im more persuaded that Miss T would likely have gone ahead with the 
payment. Therefore, I dont think Revolut could have prevented the payment from 
being made. 
Thinking next about the subsequent transactions, which went to the same merchant, 
I dont consider that they would have appeared suspicious given the pattern that had 
been established. There were some more declined payments in between authorised 
ones. But this was either due to insufficient funds, or due to daily card limit being 
reached. Having given this some thought, I dont think Revolut ought to have 
intervened when Miss T made the subsequent payments.
Ive also thought about whether Revolut could have done more to recover the funds 
after it became aware of the situation. Miss Ts payments went to a cryptocurrency 
exchange. She wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback claim in the 
circumstances because the merchant she paid did provide the service requested 
(i.e., conversion of fiat money into cryptocurrency). I can see Revolut did attempt a 
chargeback, but it was defended by the merchant.    
In summary, I recognise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Miss T. 
I fully acknowledge that shes lost a significant amount of money. But having considered the 
matter very carefully, for the reasons given, it wouldnt be fair of me to hold Revolut 
responsible for her loss.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman