DRN-2808975
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd wrongly declined her 
claim on her pet insurance policy.  
What happened
Mrs H took out pet insurance with Red Sands for her dog, G, on 9 August 2014. She 
renewed it every year.
 
On 23 August 2019 Mrs H took G to the vet because shed noticed he was limping. The vet 
said this was likely to be due to medial patellar luxation in one of Gs back legs - and that 
hed need radiography and surgery. The vet submitted a claim to Red Sands for the cost of 
the initial consultation and asked them whether the cost of any required surgery would be 
covered by the policy.
A few days later, Red Sands contacted Mrs H to say Gs treatment wouldnt be covered. 
They said this was because Gs vet records showed that the onset of this condition was 2 
November 2017, and Mrs Hs policy only covered treatment for 365 days from when it was 
first noted by herself or her vet. They said they would place an exclusion on her policy so 
that luxating patellae wouldnt be covered with effect from 9 December 2017, which was her 
policy renewal date.
Mrs H complained to Red Sands, saying that although her vet had noticed the condition in 
2017 it didnt require any treatment or surgery at that time. But Red Sands said Mrs Hs 
claim had been processed correctly  and that their cover for this condition ended on 1 
November 2018.
Our investigator didnt think Red Sands had acted fairly by saying the 365-day time limit 
should run from 2 November 2017, because G didnt need any treatment at that stage. He 
felt that it should run from 23 August 2019, as this was the first date Mrs H couldve made a 
claim on her policy. He didnt think it was fair for Red Sands to exclude cover for luxating 
patella problems in either leg from 9 December 2017  he felt this exclusion should be 
removed from her policy. He thought Red Sands should reimburse Mrs H £37.06 for the cost 
of the initial consultation with her vet, plus interest from the date she paid that invoice. He 
also thought they should pay her £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by 
declining her claim.
 
Red Sands disagreed with the investigators view. They said that, although no treatment was 
given, the vet notes queried whether G had flinched and tried to bite due to patella pain. 
They pointed out that the vet considered this problem to have been present for some time. 
Red Sands said they were satisfied that the onset of the condition was more than 365 days 
before any treatment took place, so it wouldnt be covered by the policy.
 
Mrs H felt the 365-day time limit should be extended due to COVID. She also expressed 
concern that Red Sands had ruled out cover on Gs other back leg, which had never been a 
problem. 
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
Ive read Red Sands policy documents to see what cover is provided. Ive also reviewed Gs 
clinical history in detail to consider whether it was fair and reasonable for Red Sands to 
decline the claim.
Mrs Hs policy is time limited  it covers the cost of vet treatment for illness for up to 365 
days from the date of occurrence. The policy wording gives definitions for some words. 
Illness means sickness, disease, infection or any change in the pets normal healthy state. 
But the policy doesnt define date of occurrence. Red Sands insurance product information 
document says the 365-day time limit starts when the condition is first noticed by the 
policyholder or vet, which could mean when the symptoms first arose. 
The evidence shows G was examined by the vet on 2 November 2017 in relation to pain of 
unknown origin. The records show the reason for this visit to the vet was that hed flinched 
and tried to bite when his back end was touched - but the vet recorded question marks as to 
what had caused him to react in this way. The vet discovered an ear infection and prescribed 
medication for this. The vet noted that G had bilateral luxating patellae, which was probably 
not new and hadnt previously caused any problems. No treatment was required for luxating 
patellae at that time  the notes say Mrs H was advised that G should lose weight and that 
he may need to trial anti-inflammatory medication for his legs if problems continued. I dont 
find the vets notes to be conclusive as to whether G had reacted to pain from his patella or 
displaced pain from the infected ear.
Red Sands have provided evidence showing renewal documents were sent to Mrs H on 10 
November 2017. This contained a number of declaration questions. Amongst other things, it 
asked Have you ever taken G to the vet for anything other than routine vaccinations?  
prompting Mrs H to call Red Sands if the answer was yes. Red Sands say that, if shed told 
them G had bilateral luxating patellae following her visit to the vet in 2017, they wouldve 
been able to inform her about the 365-day cover period and the exclusion that would be 
applied to her policy next time she renewed. 
Ive given careful consideration to whether Mrs H wouldve been aware that she needed to 
disclose this to her insurer. She says the vet merely mentioned the condition was present  
and that it didnt require any treatment or surgery. The vets records show that G had a 
follow-up appointment a week later. It was noted that, although he bared his teeth when that 
medication was put in, hed been better. Her vet has confirmed that no signs of lameness 
were noted at that time, and that G wasnt seen by the vet for lameness until 23 August 
2019. So, on balance, I consider it reasonable for Mrs H to have concluded that Gs pain 
reaction in November 2017 was due to the ear infection.
Although the vet noted luxating patellae in both Gs back legs in November 2017, I dont 
think it would be fair to categorise this as an illness at that time. The vets notes confirm that 
G was eating, drinking, walking and jumping normally and that he was letting himself in and 
out of the house through a dog flap. I dont consider it fair or reasonable to interpret the 
policy wording in such a way that cover expired before Mrs H could reasonably make a 
claim. As Ive seen no evidence of symptoms of a change in Gs normal healthy state that 
required vet treatment until 23 August 2019, I consider this to be the date of occurrence of 
Gs illness due to his luxating patella. So, I find Red Sands to have acted unfairly by 
declining Mrs Gs claim and applying an exclusion to her policy in respect of both Gs back 
legs with effect from 9 December 2017.
 
I can understand Mrs Hs concern that Red Sands excluded cover for Gs other back leg, 
which he hasnt had any problems with to date. Although I find it unfair for Red Sands to 
exclude liability for luxating patellae in both back legs with effect from 9 December 2017, that isnt to say that it would be unfair for them to exclude cover for this at a later date. I say this 
as I note that the policy treats bilateral conditions as one condition. This would be something 
Mrs H would need to look into when she next considers renewing her pet insurance.
I can appreciate that this has been a distressing time for Mrs H. Although I cant fairly require 
Red Sands to extend their period of insurance cover, I find it appropriate that they should 
compensate Mrs H for the trouble and upset shes been caused by her claim being declined.
I said I intended to uphold the complaint and direct Red Sands to pay Mrs Hs claim for Gs 
luxating patellae for 365 days from 23 August 2019, subject to the remaining policy terms 
and limits, with the addition of 8% simple interest on any treatments for which shed already 
paid. I said I also intended to direct them to remove the policy exclusion applied with effect 
from 9 December 2017 for all claims relating to luxating patellae in Gs back legs and to pay 
Mrs H £100 compensation for the trouble and upset shes been caused. I invited both parties 
to make any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further comments in response to my provisional findings, I 
see no reason to depart from them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and direct Red 
Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Pay Mrs Hs claim for luxating patellae for 365 days from 23 August 2019, subject to 
the remaining policy terms and limits. 
Pay 8% simple interest on any payments Mrs H has already made for vet treatments 
that are the subject of her claim, from the date of payment until the date her claim is 
settled.
Remove the policy exclusion applied with effect from 9 December 2017 for all claims 
relating to luxating patellae in Gs back legs.
Pay Mrs H £100 compensation for the trouble and upset shes been caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman