DRN-4357699
The complaint
Mr B complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) only raised a partial charge back on his 
behalf. He would like a full refund of money paid for a SIM card.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme bound by a set of rules that scheme 
holders need to comply with. Mr B put in a request for the full refund of a SIM card, 
but Starling only pursued, successfully, a partial refund as Mr B did have some use of 
the service he paid for.
Mr B has explained that the merchant offered him a full refund. From the 
correspondence Mr B provided its clear the merchant initially offered him a full refund 
but in later correspondence only offered a partial refund. I dont think this is sufficient 
grounds to say that Starling should have pursued a full refund on Mr Bs behalf.
Starling has explained that the chargeback rules only allowed it to request a partial 
refund. Mr B bought a service for 36 months and had the benefit of it for 11 months. 
The scheme rules state that  the issuer must only charge back an amount 
representing the service not received by the cardholder. As Mr B had use of the 
service for 11 months I think Starling accurately applied the scheme rules in applying 
for a partial not a full refund. Had it applied for a full refund I think it would have been 
declined due to the fact Mr B had some use of the service. I dont think evidence the  
merchant initially offered a full refund but later changed this to a partial refund would 
have overridden this.
I feel Starling correctly applied the relevant chargeback rules successfully getting  a 
partial refund for Mr B.  I dont think Starling has done anything wrong, so I cant 
reasonably ask it to refund the full amount Mr B paid as he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman