DRN-3436180
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc rejected her claim under section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 in respect of a static caravan.
What happened
Mrs L has submitted lengthy and detailed correspondence and the following is a very brief 
summary of the mains points. However, I want to assure Mrs L, if I dont address every point 
thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything 
thats been said and sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think 
is relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Mrs L purchased a static caravan on holiday park site in April 2015 at a cost of £29,300. She 
paid a deposit of £1,000 using a Sainsburys credit card and a further payment of £3,000 
was also paid by credit card.
Mr L had some snagging issues and raised these with the parks management. She also 
entered into a lengthy correspondence about the running of the site, the subletting of the 
caravan and running costs. Subsequently Mrs L refused to pay the fees due and the owner 
of the park took possession of the caravan and sold it, paying the surplus to her.
In May 2019 she made a section 75 claim and this was rejected by Sainsburys in September 
2020. It took the view that Mrs L was running a business letting out the caravan and so her 
claim was not covered by section 75. It also said that the majority of Mrs Ls complaints 
related to issues other than the purchase of the caravan and these were not funded by it.
Mrs L brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She said the agreement for sale didnt 
cover the charge for site fees which were free for the first year. She could only consider if 
Sainsburys had reached a fair outcome in relation to any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation in respect of the initial sale. 
She noted that the only snagging issue raised with Sainsburys was a rattling door although 
other matters had been brought to our attention. However, she didnt believe these were 
such that allowed Sainsburys to uphold her claim. She also noted the point that Sainsburys 
had made that the caravan was a business asset and said she thought this was moot point, 
but she didnt comment further as she didnt think the claim succeeded on other grounds.
Mrs L didnt agree and said that a lot of details had been overlooked and she reiterated there 
had been breaches of the contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Our role isnt to say if there has been a breach of contract or a mis representation for a valid 
claim under section 75 but to consider if Sainsburys bank have come to a fair outcome 
based on the evidence they were provided.
I am satisfied the required chain is in place and so I must consider if there has been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation. However, I first must consider if the acquisition was 
for business purposes or not.
Mrs L has told us more recently that it was for personal reasons and subsequently due to the 
cost she was obliged to let the caravan out. This is not what she said when corresponding 
who the park owner. In a letter dated 16 May 2017 she wrote I had invested over £30,000 to 
add a static caravan to my holiday home business. In an email dated 2 April 2019 she wrote 
I had bought the caravan as an investment. In a letter two days later she said: it had only 
been purchased for subletting. 
Given these comments made over several years I think it was not unreasonable for 
Sainsburys to conclude that the caravan had been bought for business purposes and so it 
fell outside the protection of section 75.
Even if that were not the case, I have been unable to identify any clear breach of contract. It 
would appear that having been dissatisfied with the way the park was run Mrs L 
subsequently sought to find a breach of contract. I have read her email and attachment of 2 
May 2022 and her assertions regarding different dates being used at the time of purchase do 
not to my mind amount to a breach of contract. The original agreement was signed on 11 
April 2015 with proposed completion date of 23 May. I believe this was delayed until 29 May. 
Her rights to cancel along with the other terms and condition were given in the 11 April 
document and allowed for cancellation within 14 days or prior to the completion of purchase. 
In any event Mrs L did not shown she had any intent to cancel the agreement until several 
years later and so even if her rights had not been set out she suffered no loss as a result.
Nor do I think the snagging issues amounted to a breach of contract. In 2017 a park 
employee wrote I recall the issues that you raised during my telephone conversation in 
February 2017. These are that you were not happy about how the sale was completed when 
you brought the unit in 2015 and subsequently had aftersales issues after this time, that had 
been picked up by [X] who you confirmed had done a good job for us. However, she later 
suggested the snagging issue had not been addressed. That said I have seen no evidence 
that these issues were present at the point of sale. As such I cannot safely conclude these 
are grounds that would allow me to uphold her complaint.The bank has offered Mrs L £50 for some issues in handling her claim and I think this is fair. 
It did take a long time to resolve, but I gather Mrs L continued to submit more information 
which it needed to assimilate and to raise with the park owner.
My final decision
Sainsbury's Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Sainsbury's Bank Plc should pay £50 if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman