DRN-2394517
The complaint
Ms R complains that ReAssure Limited (trading at the time as Legal and General) provided 
her with inappropriate advice about her future pension savings in September 1990.
What happened
The advice that Ms R received was provided by an advisor who was an employee of 
Legal and General. However recently Legal and General has transferred this part of its 
business to ReAssure. As part of that transfer ReAssure took responsibility for any past 
liabilities, including dealing with any complaints that are made about the advice Legal and 
General gave. For simplicity I will generally refer in this decision to ReAssure as the 
advising, and responsible, business, although I acknowledge that Ms R has had little, if any, 
direct dealings with that firm.
There is some disagreement between Ms R and ReAssure about the scope of the advice 
that was provided to her in 1990. ReAssures records indicate that it met with Ms R and her 
husband to primarily discuss the financing of a house purchase, and as an aside to that 
discussion, it recommended that Ms R contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS). Ms R recalls a far more extensive discussion about her aspirations for 
her income in retirement, and contributions that she could help fund towards her husbands 
pension savings.
The advice that Ms R received has been considered by one of our investigators. On balance 
he concluded it was more likely that the discussions had been limited to contracting out of 
SERPS, rather than any wider pension matters. And he thought that at the time Ms R met 
the required criteria to suggest contracting out of SERPS might be in her best interests. So 
he didnt think the advice she had received was inappropriate, and so didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld.
Ms R didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Ms R and by ReAssure. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think what I must first decide here is the scope of the advice that comprises the complaint. 
The advice that Ms R complains about was provided more than 30 years ago. And I am 
mindful that over such a prolonged period of time even the most careful of memories can, 
and do, fade. I have no doubts that Ms R has given us her complete and honest 
recollections of what happened, but I must balance those memories against the 
contemporaneous paper records from the meeting.
Of course it is possible that the paper records that ReAssure has given to us do not fairly 
represent the discussions it had with Ms R. But I have no reason to suspect that the 
information we have been given has been deliberately altered, or that it is an incomplete 
extract from ReAssures records. I think, given the time that has passed, ReAssure can 
provide me with little else to help me determine the scope of the advice it gave to Ms R.
I have been persuaded by some comments made by ReAssure. At the time the advice was 
provided, its employee would have been remunerated, at least in part, by commission. So 
I think it unlikely that hed have failed to explore opportunities that would have resulted in 
additional commission being paid  I think it unlikely, despite Ms Rs recollections, that he 
told her she wouldnt need to make any additional contributions to her pension savings in 
order to maximise her income at retirement.
So Im persuaded that the paperwork that was completed at the time, and signed by Ms R, 
fairly records the extent of the discussions she had in that meeting with ReAssure. That 
paperwork makes me think that the meeting was primarily to discuss the financing of a 
property purchase. But during those discussions, and after a brief review of Ms Rs financial 
situation, the advisor recommended that she should consider contracting out of SERPS. So 
it is that advice that I will consider when deciding this complaint.
In 1990, when this advice was given, consumers were incentivised by the government to 
contract out of SERPS. The amount of national insurance contributions they made would 
remain unchanged. However once contracted out, part of those national insurance 
contributions would be rebated by the government to a personal pension arrangement. The 
expectation at that time was that those rebates would provide a higher pension at retirement 
than the SERPS portion of the state pension.
Firms providing advice to consumers about this sort of decision needed to ensure that the 
consumers circumstances were such that they would benefit from contracting out. The main 
drivers behind that decision were the consumers age, and their annual earnings. So, with 
the assistance of their actuaries, firms devised a set of trigger points that needed to be met 
before providing advice to contract out of SERPS.
Ive looked at the parameters that were in use by Legal and General in 1990 when the 
advice was provided to Ms R. From those I can see that she was well below the maximum 
age that the firm would apply, and earning significantly more than the minimum salary that 
was required. I can see that Ms R has said that the advisor recorded her salary incorrectly at 
the time  but even at the lower amount recorded by the advisor she was well over the 
relevant threshold.I have considered that Ms R told the advisor that she was pregnant at the time, and 
expecting a baby around six months later. That would obviously affect her earnings for some 
time regardless of whether she intended to return to work after the baby had been born. But 
during a period of maternity leave, income tax and national insurance contributions would 
continue to be paid. So I dont think an imminent period of maternity leave made the advice 
unsuitable.
I appreciate that Ms R says that the pension she now has available to her from her 
contracting out decision is much less than she was expecting. I think I need to consider that 
on a number of fronts.
SERPS was not intended to be the sole provision for a consumers retirement. It would be 
paid in addition to the state pension. And for many consumers an occupational pension, or 
additional private pension, would be used to supplement their retirement income. I am not 
persuaded that it is likely that Ms R would have been told that contracting out of SERPS 
would be sufficient to support all her income needs in retirement.
The assumptions that were made in 1990, and supported by the regulator at the time, about 
likely investment growth have not proved to be accurate. So the amounts of pension that 
might have been reasonably expected at that time are not reflected in the annuities that can 
be purchased today. But that doesnt mean the information or advice given about likely 
growth in 1990 was incorrect. The figures I have seen in the quotations provided to Ms R 
appear to be entirely in line with the regulators guidance at that time.
Ms R recalls that the discussion she had about her future pension was far more wide ranging 
than simply contracting out of SERPS. I cannot, for obvious reasons, be certain about what 
was discussed at the time. But from the paperwork that was completed it is difficult for me to 
conclude that Ms R received, or even asked for, advice on the whole of her retirement 
provision during that meeting. Although the position changed in later years, in 1990 advisors 
were not expected to recommend that female consumers supplemented their SERPS rebate 
contributions by making addition regular contributions of their own. So I cannot reasonably 
conclude in this decision that ReAssure is responsible for any shortfall in Ms Rs pension 
provision.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Ms R. But I havent seen sufficient 
evidence for me to conclude that ReAssure provided her, or was asked to provide her, with 
anything more than advice on contracting out of SERPS. And I think the advice that was 
provided was in line with best practice at that time. So I dont think ReAssure has done 
anything wrong and so it doesnt need to pay any compensation to Ms R.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
ReAssure Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Ms R to accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman