DRN-2496932
The complaint
Mr S complains (through his partner Ms F) that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited
mishandled his claim on his van insurance policy.
 
What happened
Most motor policies exclude theft of vehicles left unattended with a key in or on the vehicle.
For his self-employed work, Mr S had a van. He insured it with Admiral. On 9 August 2019, 
Mr S reported to police and to Admiral that someone had stolen his van. After asking Mr S 
about keys to the van, Admiral declined his claim in October 2019. Mr S complained to 
Admiral about that. Mr S first contacted us in early November 2019.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that
Admiral had dealt with the complaint about the claim fairly and reasonably.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to Admiral on 10 December 2020. I summarise my findings:
I didnt find it fair and reasonable for the insurer to decline Mr Ss claim on the
grounds that hed left the spare key inside his locked vehicle. So I found that Admiral 
treated Mr S unfairly by declining his claim.
Subject to any further information from Mr S or from Admiral, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint. I intended to direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to:
1. meet Mr Ss claim for the loss of his van in line with the terms of the policy 
excluding those terms quoted in this decision relating to care of the vehicle; and
2. pay Mr S £250.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr S accepts the provisional decision. Admiral hasnt responded to the provisional decision. 
So I see no reason to change my view. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The van that Mr S later bought was made in about 2014. He bought it from a dealer in about
2017 on finance. He bought the van with two keys. He had problems with the keys and in
January 2018 the dealer replaced the ignition barrel.
From early April 2019, Mr S had the policy with Admiral for one year. The policy terms 
included the following:
General Conditions
1. Your duties
The cover in this policy is valid providing:
You or anyone else claiming cover under the policy has kept to all the terms and
conditions of the policy.

3. Care of your vehicle
You or any person covered by the policy must:
protect your vehicle from loss or damage

remove the keys or secure any device that allows access to your vehicle; if it
is left unoccupied
If an incident happens, and you or any person covered by this policy fails to protect
your vehicle from loss or damage through
...
your vehicle being left unlocked or unsecured
No cover under the policy will be provided and instead our responsibility will be
restricted to meeting the obligations as required by Road Traffic Law."
Ive underlined the word or because Ms F has highlighted it. The reference to road traffic
law is a reference to an insurers liability to any third parties injured by the van.
When Mr S reported the theft, he said he only had one key. He explained that - after it
repaired the ignition barrel  the dealer only gave him one key for it.
But on 20 September 2019, Mr S said there had been a second key and it had been in the
vehicle at the time of the theft. He said it was in the glove compartment. I find that more
likely to be true than the later suggestion that the key was in a locked box in the back of the
vehicle.
Mr S said that key didnt work. Admiral investigated this and had to chase the dealer for
information. On 15 October 2019 the dealer said it had replaced the barrel to suit the original
keys. So it didnt provide a new key  it just gave back to Mr S the key he had given it.
Mr S reiterated that the key left in the van didnt work and that he never had the time to get
this fixed.
But Admiral said the blade of that key could still fit the new barrel. Admiral declined the claim
on 24 October 2019.
I dont find Admiral responsible for unreasonable delay in investigating the claim. And Im
satisfied that Admiral took reasonable steps to communicate with Mr S.
In response to the investigators opinion, Ms F has provided an email from the dealer
including the following:
I can confirm that following the barrel replacement on 31st January 2018 at our
premises, the original none remote key could not be used to operate the vehicle.
So on balance I dont find it likely that a thief couldve used that key to start the vehicle.However, thats not the main point as I see it. The main point is that theres no evidence that 
Mr S had left the vehicle unlocked.
Whilst the terms quoted above provide that Mr S had to remove the keys if he left the vehicle
unoccupied, I consider that the exclusion of cover starts from the words If an incident
happens. So the exclusion only operates if there is loss through the vehicle being left
unlocked.
In any event, I dont find it fair and reasonable for the insurer to decline Mr Ss claim on the
grounds that hed left the spare key inside his locked vehicle. So I find that Admiral treated
Mr S unfairly by declining his claim.
 
Putting things right
Ive thought about the impact on Mr S and how Admiral should try to put things right.
Mr S suffered stress and disruption to his work and family life. Some of that was due to the
theft itself. But some of it was caused by a decision by Admiral that Ive found unfair.
Mr S hasnt provided enough details of his earnings to show a financial loss caused by
Admirals decision. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay
compensation for any such loss.
I dont underestimate the upset Admirals decision caused Mr S. But we make modest
awards of compensation for distress ad inconvenience. I find it fair and reasonable to direct
Admiral to pay Mr S £250.00 for distress and inconvenience.
I will direct Admiral to meet Mr Ss claim for the loss of his van in line with the terms
of the policy excluding those terms quoted in this decision relating to care of the vehicle.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
1. meet Mr Ss claim for the loss of his van in line with the terms of the policy excluding 
those terms quoted in this decision relating to care of the vehicle; and
2. pay Mr S £250.00 for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman