DRN-3633218
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited gave 
him to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
At the time of the events complained about it was a different firm which gave Mr C advice. 
Royal London has since acquired that advising firm and its confirmed that it is responsible 
for responding to the complaint. So in this decision I will refer to the advising firm as 
Royal London.
Professional representatives have helped Mr C to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Cs. 
What happened
Mr C says that Royal London approached him in 1995 offering financial advice. In 
October 1995 it completed a fact-find and recorded information about Mr Cs circumstances 
and attitude to risk. Amongst other things it recorded that:
Mr C was aged 34, living with his partner and they had a son aged one.
Mr C was employed earning around £720 a month.
He rented his home.
He had no savings, investments or unsecured debt.
His partner received benefits of £240 a month and together they had a disposable 
income of £218 a month.
He had a preserved pension from his previous employer.
Mr C had a medium/high attitude to risk.
Under a heading of recommendations for you Royal London recorded  amongst other 
things  pension provisions. And it later noted that it was recommending:
Stage one pension transfer to compare preserved pension with personal pension with 
intention of investing in one with greater control and potential for growth in the long term.
Royal London then gathered information about Mr Cs DB pension from the scheme 
administrator. It produced a pension transfer analysis report on 1 December 1995. Amongst 
other things it recorded: that Mr Cs DB pension had a transfer value of £9,581, which would 
pay him a cash lump sum at age 60 of £19,500 together with a yearly pension of £4,600. It 
said the growth rate required for an alternative pension to match that would be 11.4% each 
year. Royal Londons fee for arranging a transfer would be £582 in total, which would be 
deducted from the transfer fund.
Two of Royal Londons staff met with Mr C on 13 December 1995. They have recorded that 
they advised Mr C not to transfer out of his DB scheme as he would lose guaranteed 
benefits, the growth rate required was assumed too high and it was an unacceptable risk. 
Mr C signed a form that day confirming that he wished to go against Royal Londons advice 
not to transfer and acknowledged that it was not in his financial interests to do so. 
The form was pre-printed to say that Mr C wanted
To move my retirement benefits away from my previous employer. This is because
Then hand written in ink it says:
I LOOK TO THE FUTURE
Mr C signed the appropriate forms to complete the transfer of his DB pension benefits to a 
personal pension provided by Royal London the same day.
A week later, on 20 December 1995, Royal London wrote to Mr C. As well as enclosing 
pension transfer review papers, it said its recommendation was that he should not transfer 
his pension because:
You would lose guaranteed benefits and the required growth rate required to match these 
benefits is too high.
You have elected to transfer your personal pension as this is money you have now received 
and you wish to take the risk over a long period to improve the pension benefits.
On 28 December 1995 Royal London wrote to Mr C. It said hed completed the 
arrangements to transfer his pension. It again said it was enclosing the results of its pension 
transfer review. It added that he had 14 days to change his mind. 
The administrators of the DB scheme later confirmed it had completed the pension transfer. 
In 2021 Mr C complained to Royal London about the suitability of the transfer advice. 
Amongst other things he said:
Royal Londons advice to transfer was negligent.
It didnt advise him of the guaranteed benefits he would lose.
It advised him that his DB scheme may cease to exist in the future and this was a 
factor in his decision to proceed with the transfer
It told him that by reinvesting his pension fund he would enjoy a better return.
It didnt tell him that an alternative plan would have to perform particularly well to 
match the benefits of the DB scheme.
Royal London should have advised him not to transfer.
He had a cautious attitude to risk, a low capacity for loss and no previous investment 
experience and a transfer was not in his best interests.
By transferring, Mr C would have to pay fees that he wouldnt need to pay by 
remaining in the DB scheme.
Royal London didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. In summary it said that its advice was that 
Mr C should not transfer out of his DB scheme.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. Amongst other things he said that Royal London didnt 
explain the nature of his DB scheme to him.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. We spoke with Mr C, amongst other things he told 
us that he didnt recall Royal London advising him not to transfer out of the DB scheme.. He described Royal Londons staff as door-knockers. He said the pensions transfer was 
Royal Londons idea from start to finish and it had been a hard sell. It had told him that 
everyone was transferring away from his former employers DB scheme. 
We sent Mr C a copy of the form he signed to say that he was going against Royal Londons 
advice. Mr C replied and acknowledged that it was his signature on the form. But he said 
that while the form did say in print that he was going against Royal Londons advice it hadn't 
made it clear that he shouldnt transfer his pension. He said the complete opposite was true. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. He upheld it and required Royal London to 
pay compensation, including redress of £200 for Mr Cs distress and inconvenience. In short 
the investigator said:
Two of Royal Londons staff had met with Mr C which supported his argument that it 
was a hard sell. 
There was a form titled Application to transfer the pension plan on file dated earlier 
than the meeting with Mr C which implied that the transfer was already going ahead.
He wasnt convinced that it was Mr Cs own handwriting on the form agreeing he was 
going against Royal Londons advice. 
Its letter advising Mr C not to transfer was sent after Mr C had already signed forms 
to say that he wanted to go ahead with the transfer and didnt give Mr C a fully 
informed position.
He didnt think that Mr C was an insistent client.
Royal London disagreed. Amongst other things it said:
At the time it was usual practice for two of its staff to attend such meetings.
The Application to transfer the pension plan form was an internal memo which 
includes a list of the documents required. It was sent by its pensions section to its 
advisers to be completed and returned after the meeting. So it was not an indicator 
that the transfer was already going ahead.
Royal London didnt put pressure on Mr C to complete or sign any papers and theres 
no evidence in the file that was the case.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr C and Royal London have made a number of points in bringing the complaint and in 
replying to it. And I've considered carefully everything on file. But in this decision I dont 
intend to address each and every issue or point raised. Instead I will focus on the issues that 
I see as being at the heart of Mr Cs complaint and the reasons for my decision.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And 
where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for broadly similar reasons to those 
given by our investigator. 
At the time Royal London gave Mr C advice it was regulated by the Personal Investment 
Authority (PIA). The PIA had adopted the rules from the previous regulators, which had 
issued guidance to firms in 1994 about dealing with investors who reject the advice of the 
firm. Of relevance to this complaint that guidance said:
it is always open to the member to refuse to become involved in executing the instructions 
of the investor. However, if the member is prepared to proceed with the arrangement, then 
the following steps should be taken.
A. The investor should have the position fully explained to him, including the 
implications of his choice, and this advice should be confirmed in a letter.
B. The investors decision to override the advisors recommendation should also be 
credibly evidenced. Disclaimers forms and pre-printed letters using stock phrases 
should not be used since they cast doubt upon the genuineness of the process. A 
note from the customer in his own words is best.
The current regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority  FCA) refer to consumers who go 
against a firms advice as insistent clients. Although that wasnt a term the PIA used, and 
I'm not applying the FCAs current advice when considering Royal Londons actions at the 
time, for the purposes of this decision I have adopted the phrase insistent client as I think it 
fits Mr Cs situation.
So in order for Royal London to fairly treat Mr C as an insistent client it needed to fully 
explain the implications to him of going against its advice. And show credible evidence that 
Mr C had chosen to go against that advice using his own words and without using a 
pre-printed reason. 
The transfer analysis report produced on 1 December 1995 showed that it was extremely 
unlikely Mr C could match the benefits from his DB scheme by transferring to a personal 
pension. Both of Royal Londons advisers who met with Mr C on 13 December 1995 have 
recorded that their advice was that he shouldn't transfer out of the DB scheme. So its not in 
dispute that it wasnt in Mr Cs best interests to transfer. What is in dispute is the advice that 
Royal London gave to Mr C at the time. 
I note that in its initial meeting with Mr C in October 1995 Royal London had recommended 
considering a pension transfer so Mr C could enjoy greater control and potential for growth 
in the long term. So, at the initial meeting Royal London had already sowed the seed that 
Mr C could be better off by transferring his pension.
Royal London then met with Mr C again and has recorded that it advised him not to transfer. 
In contrast Mr C believes that Royal Londons advice throughout the process was that he 
should transfer his pension. Clearly, I wasnt there when Royal London met with Mr C, so I 
don't know exactly what information was exchanged. And in those circumstances I need to 
decide, on the balance of probabilities, whats more likely than not to have happened.
There is evidence on file supporting Royal Londons version of events. It has the notes from 
its two advisers saying that they advised Mr C not to transfer. Theres also the form Mr C 
signed saying that he was going against its advice because:
I LOOK TO THE FUTUREBut I'm not persuaded by the paperwork that Royal London had fully explained the position 
to Mr C or the implications of his going ahead with the transfer. In coming to that conclusion 
I've noted that Royal London gave its advice, which it says was for Mr C not to transfer, on 
the same day that it decided to treat him as in insistent client and he signed the papers for 
the transfer to go ahead. Theres no clear evidence of exactly what it discussed with Mr C, 
beyond saying that the growth rates and risk were too high. And it hasnt recorded any actual 
detail about what advantages Mr C thought there were in going against its advice. Similarly 
theres no record of Royal London challenging Mr Cs apparent decision to go against its 
advice. And in order to credibly evidence that it had fairly advised Mr C about the 
implications of his acting as an insistent client I think it needed to do that.
I say that because Royal London had apparently initiated the advice process itself. Mr C 
says this wasnt something he was looking to do or had previously considered. He had no 
investment experience, no savings, no other pension provision and was earning a modest 
salary. He had nothing to fall back on if an alternative pension arrangement failed. That is he 
had very little capacity for loss. But there was virtually no risk of any loss whatsoever by 
remaining in the DB scheme. And by transferring he would immediately be subject to a 
deduction of Royal Londons charges for arranging the transfer, which were about 6% of the 
entire fund. And he would then incur regular charges from a personal pension which he 
wouldnt have had to pay from the DB scheme. So it clearly wasnt in Mr Cs best interests to 
transfer out of his DB fund, as by doing so he was almost certainly ensuring he would be 
worse off in retirement.
Mr Cs memory of events is that Royal London were positively encouraging him to transfer. I 
appreciate that Royal London gave its advice around 27 years ago and memories fade and 
are coloured by the passage of time. And its clear that Mr C can't remember everything 
which took place, as  for example  he didnt recall signing the form saying he was going 
against Royal Londons advice, when theres clear evidence that he did so. But his recall 
about the thrust of Royal Londons advice is persuasive that it sold the idea to him that he 
would be better off by transferring. And I find it difficult to understand why someone with no 
investment experience and very little in the way of capacity for loss would go against the 
advice of financial professionals if they had clearly explained to him that he would, almost 
certainly, be worse off by going against their advice.
And had Mr C been insistent on doing so, then, as I've said above, I would have expected 
Royal London to keep a clear record of what it had done to dissuade him from that position. 
Royal Londons role was to find out what Mr Cs wants and needs were and why. Its role 
wasnt simply to do what Mr C thought he wanted without appropriate analysis and challenge 
of his motives for doing so with the implications of taking those actions with him. But theres 
very little evidence of such a challenge. 
Also Royal Londons evidence is that it advised him not to transfer and then got him to sign 
forms to go ahead with that transfer on the same day. In other words its clearly told him that, 
regardless of what its advice actually was, it could make the transfer happen anyway. And 
while Royal London knew that wasnt in Mr Cs best interests, the transfer would see it earn 
a significant fee. But theres no evidence it gave Mr C copies of its papers at the time. So its 
not clear how much information it gave to him in order to ensure he was making a fully 
informed decision. For example theres no evidence that it pointed out the effect that the 
charges and fees applicable to the personal pension would have on reducing his pension 
funds in the future. So I'm not convinced that Royal London did all that it needed to in order 
to fully and clearly explain the implications of transferring out of the DB scheme.
Further, while Mr C undoubtedly signed the form saying he was going against 
Royal Londons advice, its apparent that Mr C actually believed that Royal Londons true 
advice was that he should go ahead with the transfer. I say that as his evidence is clear and persuasive that he understood Royal Londons overarching message was that he should 
transfer. And, as I've said above, unless he was given the impression that he would 
potentially be better off by transferring he had no reason whatsoever to take a risk with his 
pension. 
The form Mr C signed was pre-printed to say that he was going against Royal Londons 
advice, and the handwritten note about looking to the future doesn't explain why hed want to 
do that. Looking to the future would, I believe, for most individuals involve taking the option 
that was most advantageous to them. Not one that would almost certainly see them worse 
off. But all the evidence in the paperwork is that Mr C was likely to be worse off by 
transferring. So I can only imagine that Mr C thought that in looking to the future hed be 
better off by transferring. And I think its likely, on the balance of probabilities, that he arrived 
at that conclusion because of the manner in which Royal London presented its advice to 
him. That is, whilst it might have said that it may not be in his best interests to transfer, its 
also given him the impression that by doing so he could be better off. So I think its likely that 
it gave him mixed messages about what was genuinely in his best interests. And Mr C 
concluded having spoken to Royal Londons professional advisers, that he would be better 
off in a personal pension.
Royal London then wrote to Mr C on 20 October 1995 again advising him that its 
recommendation was not to transfer. Its notable that the regulator required Royal London to 
write to Mr C to confirm its advice. So this letter would tick that particular regulatory box. But 
the reasons Royal London gave for its recommendation were brief. It said that Mr C would 
lose guaranteed benefits and the growth rate to match those was too high. The letter said 
nothing about the effect of fees or charges. And it didn't spell out that he was almost certain 
to be worse off by transferring. Neither did it refer to potential volatility of the markets and 
what that could mean for him in the long-term. And by this time Mr C had already signed the 
forms to say he wanted to go ahead with the transfer because he clearly thought that was in 
his best interests. Also, as I've already said above, I'm persuaded he did so based on what 
Royal London had told him previously. So I think Royal Londons letter was too little too late.
Further, Royal Londons letter said that Mr Cs reasons for going against its advice was 
because:
this is money you have now received and you wish to take the risk over a long period to 
improve the pension benefits.
But Mr C hadn't received the money. It was invested for him by his DB scheme. It was not a 
sum that was available to him to do what he wished with. So having received the money 
clearly cant have been an accurate reason for him wanting to transfer the benefits out of the 
DB scheme. I find that comment misleading. 
Also, the reference to taking long-term risk to improve his pension benefits indicates that this 
is clearly something Royal London had discussed with Mr C. That is it had told him that he 
could be better off in the long run by reinvesting his DB scheme funds into a personal 
pension. And it seems likely that it was this discussion that persuaded Mr C he would be 
better off by transferring. Given his previous lack of investment experience, I dont think 
thats a position hes likely to have arrived at without the involvement and comments of 
Royal Londons advisers. 
It follows that I think Royal London led Mr C to believe that overall, its advice was that he 
should go ahead with the transfer. And in doing so Royal London was simply paying lip-
service to the process of deciding that he was an insistent client. So I dont think 
Royal London did enough to establish that Mr C was a genuine insistent client. And I dont 
think it treated him fairly. If it had done so and provided the clarity of advice that I think it should have, its unlikely Mr C would have transferred out of his DB scheme at that time as 
he had little to gain, and much to lose, by doing so. 
In light of the above, I think Royal London should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Further, as Royal Londons actions have clearly been a source of distress and 
inconvenience for Mr C, I think its fair and reasonable that Royal London pay him £200 in 
redress for that.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Royal London to put Mr C, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Royal Londons unsuitable advice. I consider 
Mr C would have most likely remained in his DB scheme if Royal London had given suitable 
advice.
Royal London must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr C whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. He has chosen not 
to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr C. 
For clarity, as far as Im aware Mr C has not yet retired, but he could have accessed his DB 
scheme funds at age 60. So, compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 
60, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
Royal London may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date Royal London receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Royal London to pay 
Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in 
full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Royal 
London Mutual Insurance Society to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman