DRN-3666705
The complaint
Mrs K complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLF) didnt handle her 
chargeback claim fairly.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
summary of key events.
Mrs K booked a three night stay in a self-catering cottage and paid with her JLF card. On 
arriving at the cottage, Mrs K found that it hadnt been cleaned properly and that the 
furnishings werent of the quality she was expecting.
Mrs K completed her stay and raised a complaint with the property management when she 
returned home. Unable to resolve things with the property management, Mrs K complained 
to JLF.
JLF advised Mrs K that it was unbale to assist with the chargeback because she had utilised 
the services. It also advised Mrs K that it was unable to assist under section 75 because the 
complaint related to the quality of the service provided.
Mrs K was unhappy with JLFs response and brought her complaint to this service. She 
doesnt think JLF handled her claim fairly.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. he said that although it was possible to raise a 
chargeback for quality of services not as described, the fact that Mrs K hadnt raised her 
concerns at the time meant that it would have been difficult to show that shed met the 
requirements to raise a successful chargeback. The investigator explained that the 
chargeback scheme is voluntary, so JLF wasnt obliged to raise one if it thought it wouldnt 
succeed.
Our investigator also said that he thought JLF was correct to conclude that a claim under 
section 75 wouldnt succeed because there wasnt enough evidence to show that there had 
been a misrepresentation or a breach of contract.
In relation to the aspect of Mrs Ks complaint which related to the way in which JLF handled 
her claim. The investigator said JLF had acknowledged providing below standard service 
and that the compensation already paid by JLF was fair. 
Mrs K didnt agree. She said shed booked the property because it stated on the website that 
it was following guidance on cleaning, and that the cleanliness was one of the factors that 
influence her decision to book during the pandemic. Mrs K said the reason she had stayed 
for the duration and not raised a complaint at the time was because there was nowhere else 
in the locality to stay and it wouldnt have been possible for the property to be deep cleaned 
whilst she was occupying it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme. How it works is that the card issuer (JLF) checks the 
complaint against possible chargeback reasons, to see what sort of evidence is required and 
in what timescales. This is so it can decide whether or not it can make a successful claim for 
the customer. Importantly, card issuers arent obliged to submit chargeback claims, and they 
will do so only if they believe they have evidence which will back up a chargeback so that it 
is successful. This service expects card issuers to help if they can, but we dont expect them 
to raise a chargeback if theres little prospect of success.
Ive looked at Mrs Ks request to JLF to raise a chargeback to see whether of not JLF acted 
reasonable when it wouldnt raise a chargeback.
JLF advised Mrs K that it couldnt raise a chargeback because shed utilised the services. I 
dont think this advice was entirely correct, because its possible to raise a chargeback for 
Goods or Services not as Described or Defective. The issue which Mrs K was unhappy 
about was that the cleanliness of the property wasnt what shed expected, based on what 
shed read in the advertisement and photos for the property. 
One of the difficulties with Mrs Ks complaint is that expectations of cleanliness vary from 
person to person. So, what might have been unacceptable to Mrs K might have been 
satisfactory for someone else. This makes it difficult (in the context of a chargeback) to show 
that the goods were not as described or defective, because theres no legal definition or 
defined standard by which to measure cleanliness. Further, the fact that Mrs K completed 
her stay means that it would be difficult to argue successfully that cleanliness (or otherwise) 
of the property made it defective.
As Ive explained above, JLF didnt have to raise a chargeback if it didnt think there was 
enough evidence for it to be successful. In this case, JLF took the view that the chargeback 
didnt have a reasonable prospect of success. I agree with JLF that the chargeback didnt 
have such prospect, and I dont think JLF did anything wrong when it refused to raise a 
chargeback.
Section 75
Where a business decides that a chargeback isnt appropriate, this service considers it good 
practice to review the claim under section 75. In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a 
consumer a right to claim against a supplier of goods or the provider of credit if theres been 
a misrepresentation or a breach or contract. In order to uphold this complaint, Id need to be 
satisfied that there been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation and that JLFs response 
to the claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable.
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter into a 
contract. The relevant law regarding contract requires the property owner to provide the 
accommodation with reasonable care and skill, and therefore a customer should expect the 
accommodation to be clean and safe.
Ive thought about whether JLF acted fairly and reasonably when it said it wouldnt raise a 
claim under section 75. It reviewed all of the evidence submitted by Mrs K and determined 
that the evidence wasnt sufficient to show either a misrepresentation or a breach of contract. 
Ive reviewed the evidence submitted by Mrs K myself. Ive also looked at the website for the 
property and Ive taken account of everything that Mrs K has said. A significant part of Mrs 
Ks complaint relates to the cleanliness of the property. She doesnt feel that it met the 
standards that she expected, Mrs K has also said that she doesnt think the property came 
up to the standard she expected as it was described on the website as luxury 
accommodation.
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to say that 
theres been a misrepresentation or a breach of contract here. I understand that the property 
wasnt as clean as Mrs K had hoped, however, as Ive said above, theres no legal definition 
of clean and no industry standard by which cleanliness can be measured. There isnt enough 
evidence for me to say that the cottage wasnt safe (due to the level of cleanliness) and 
theres no evidence that Mrs Ks health was put at risk due to the level of cleanliness of the 
property.
Customer service
JLF has acknowledged that it provided below standard service to Mrs K during the 
chargeback claim. I understand what a frustrating experience this has been for Mrs K and I 
agree that JLF couldve handled things better. I can see that JLF has paid compensation of 
£150 for poor service and this sum is in line with what this service would expect. I think the 
sum paid is fair and reasonable and I wont be asking JLF to do anything further about this 
aspect of the complaint.
Data breach
Mrs K has raised an issue about a data breach. As the investigator has already explained, 
this isnt something that this service is able to consider. Mrs K can report the breach to the 
ICO if she hasnt done so already. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman