DRN-3258194
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc registered a default on his credit file 
when it shouldnt have done.
What happened
In August 2015 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Santander.
Mr C experienced financial difficulties and entered into a payment arrangement with 
Santander, as he had missed some monthly payments. Mr C says he spoke to an advisor at 
Santander who told him that there wouldnt be any negative entries recorded on his credit 
file. However, Mr C later discovered that a default had been recorded on his credit file.
Mr C complained to Santander. In response, it said that Mr C had entered into a 3 month 
short term arrangement to clear the outstanding arrears on the agreement, which had been 
broken, leading to the agreement being terminated in October 2016 and a default being 
registered on Mr Cs credit file soon after this. Santander said it wasnt upholding Mr Cs 
complaint because hed broken the payment arrangement. It also said it couldnt find any 
evidence that Mr C had been told that his credit file wouldnt be affected.
Mr C wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he was satisfied that Santander 
followed the correct process before defaulting the account and that it had acted reasonably 
in agreeing a payment arrangement with Mr C. The investigator said there was no evidence 
to suggest that Mr C was told that the missed payments wouldnt affect his credit file.
Mr C didnt agree. He said hed been told by Santander that there would be no adverse 
impact on his credit file provided that he brought his payments up to date. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the system notes provided by Santander. These show that in June 2016, there 
were arrears on Mr Cs account due to missed payments. A 3 month payment arrangement 
was agreed so that Mr C could clear the arrears, with the arrangement due to start on 1 
August 2016.
Based on what Ive seen, it appears that Mr C didnt make the payments he had agreed to 
make under the agreement. Because of this, Santander terminated the agreement and 
recorded a default.
Ive thought about whether Santander acted fairly in terminating the agreement and 
recording the default. Im satisfied that Santander responded positively and sympathetically 
to Mr Cs financial situation by agreeing the payment arrangement with him. I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Santander to take the steps it did when Mr C broke the arrangement.
Mr C has said that he was told by Santander that if he made payments to bring the account 
back up to date, his credit file wouldnt be negatively impacted. Ive reviewed the system 
notes and I can see that Mr C was advised in June 2016 that missing payments would affect 
his credit file. I cant see anything in the system notes to suggest that Mr C was advised that 
if he brought his payments back up to date, his credit file wouldnt be affected. In any event, 
the information Ive seen shows that Mr C broke the payment arrangement twice, so I think 
that Santander was justified in terminating the agreement and recording the default.
I understand that Mr C feels very strongly about this but based on the evidence Ive seen, 
Im unable to say that Santander has acted unfairly or done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman