DRN-3855074
The complaint
Mr B complains that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer his pension from one of his previous providers  provider A  to a pension 
with it. He said this transfer left him without the guaranteed unit price increase and the 
protected tax-free cash lump sum hed had with provider A. He felt this pension shouldve 
remained with provider A to achieve full potential.
Mr B has a separate complaint with this service about the service another part of SJP 
provided. That complaint has been handled on its own merits so Ill not cover it in this 
decision.
What happened
Mr B opened a retirement account with SJP in September 2014. I understand that four 
previous pension funds were transferred in from other providers in September and October 
2014. These included the pension with provider A. I understand the transfer amount from 
provider A was £2,729.58. And that the total of the four transfers was around £59,000. 
I understand that Mr B transferred his pension out of SJP in 2020. On 19 August 2020, SJP 
wrote to Mr B to tell him it had transferred £78,115.92 to his new provider. 
On 8 January 2021, Mr B complained about the 2014 transfer advice SJP had given him. He 
said he now better understood the July 2014 recommendation letter. And felt that he 
shouldnt have taken the advice to transfer his pension from provider A. 
Mr B said that the suitability letter had contained errors about that transfer. It had included a 
statement which said that there was: no reduction in the tax-free cash payable from the plan 
as a result of the transfer. But this wasnt correct, as the pension with provider A had a 
protected tax-free lump sum. Mr B also said that the pension with provider A had a 
guarantee that the unit price would increase by 4% each year. He felt SJP shouldve advised 
him to retain this pension with provider A, rather than to transfer it. 
SJP issued its final response to the complaint on 18 March 2021. It didnt uphold the 
complaint about its advice to transfer the pension from provider A. It acknowledged that its 
suitability letter had contained an error about Mr Bs pension with provider A. This was 
because the letter had incorrectly stated that thered be no reduction in the tax-free cash 
payable from the plan as a result of the transfer. But SJP said that later on in the letter, it had 
given full and correct details of the effect of transferring the plan on this benefit. 
SJP also noted that the pension with provider A had only formed a small part of Mr Bs 
retirement planning. And said that its suitability letter had recorded that Mr B was: happy to 
lose the tax-free cash allowance as it was only around 4% of the total funds transferred at 
the time. It also said that it had given Mr B full details of the guarantees he would lose in the 
suitability letter.
SJP also said that Mr B had signed a declaration at the end of the suitability letter on 11 
September 2014. This said that he had read and understood the information it contained. It 
felt that this showed Mr B had agreed with the advice.
Mr B was unhappy with this response. So he brought his complaint to this service in July 
2021. 
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. He felt SJP had provided 
conflicting information in the suitability letter about the impact of the transfer on the tax-free 
cash. And while he acknowledged that SJP had also provided the correct information within 
the suitability report, which Mr B had signed that he had read and understood, he didnt think 
it was reasonable to say that Mr B ought to have known what would happen to his protected 
tax-free cash position. Our investigator also didnt consider that the suitability letter had 
included any information about the impact the transfer would have on Mr Bs guaranteed unit 
price increase.
Our investigator didnt think that Mr B wouldve gone ahead with the transfer if hed been 
informed about the significant benefits that he would lose from his pension with provider A. 
To put things right, he felt that SJP should ensure that Mr B was put back to the position he 
would now be in if he hadnt transferred his pension. This included compensation for the fact 
that Mr B had lost out on a protected tax-free cash option. 
SJP didnt agree with our investigator. It made the following points:
- Mr B had been aware of the advantages and disadvantages of transferring his 
pensions as they were explained in the suitability letter. And hed signed a 
declaration which stated that the contents of the letter and report had been explained 
to him. SJP felt this showed Mr B had made an informed decision to proceed with the 
transfer.
- The pension with provider A was the smallest of the pensions that had been 
transferred into SJP. It said this led to very little impact in terms of the tax-free cash 
Mr B would be giving up by consolidating this pension. 
- SJP also said that the suitability letter had covered the impact the transfer would 
have on Mr Bs guaranteed unit price increase with provider A. 
- SJP said that the impact of this guarantee was also minimal due to the pension with 
provider A being such a small part of his transfer. And this was why Mr B had made 
his informed decision to proceed with the transfer in order to achieve the goal of 
consolidating all his plans.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review. 
I issued my provisional decision on the complaint on 30 November 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that one page of 
SJPs suitability letter did incorrectly state that the pension with provider A had no 
guarantees or reduction in the tax-free cash payable from the plan as a result of the transfer. 
But I dont agree that SJP failed to explain in its suitability letter that Mr Bs pension with 
provider A had enhanced benefits which would be lost if he were to transfer it. I appreciate 
this decision will be disappointing for Mr B. Ill explain my decision. 
Ive carefully considered what both parties have told this service. And the evidence provided. Of particular importance to this complaint is the 11 July 2014 suitability letter SJP sent to Mr 
B. 
As noted by both parties already, this letter incorrectly stated the following  within a list of 
other correct bullet points - about Mr Bs pension with provider A: 
-The plan does not contain any guaranteed annuity rates, loyalty bonuses or any 
other guaranteed benefits.
-There will be no reduction in the tax-free cash payable from the plan as a result of 
the transfer. 
While I appreciate that this couldve been confusing, later on in the letter there was a much 
more detailed explanation of how a transfer away from provider A would affect Mr Bs tax-
free cash entitlement. It said:
[Provider A] tax-free cash entitlement
The tax-free cash entitlement from an Occupational Pension Scheme is dependent on the 
entitlement on 5 April 2006. [Provider A] have calculated that the tax-free cash entitlement 
under your plan at 5 April 2006 was £710.24, which would revalue to date to a figure of 
£1,155.16.
The Retirement Plan could only provide 25% of the transfer value we would receive ie 
currently £671.73.
This means that in current terms there will be a reduction in the amount of tax-free cash at 
retirement amounting to £482.78, or 17.95% of the fund value if you transfer this plan. Less 
tax-free cash in retirement means more fund would be taxable at your highest rate of income 
tax. It would also mean that less of your fund would be available as a capital sum up front in 
retirement.
Under your current scheme, tax-free cash in retirement was increased by reference to 
increases in the Lifetime Allowance since April 2006 (which means an increase of 20% was 
applied to April 2010 as for this purpose the original lifetime allowance of £1.5m was 
increased to £1.8m) plus 25% of the growth in the fund value since 5 April 2006.
This means that in addition to having to produce investment growth to outperform the 
existing fund as shown by the comparison of charges, the [SJP] funds will also have to 
produce sufficient fund growth to make up for the current reduction in tax-free cash on 
transfer. This will increase the possibility that overall you could receive greater retirement 
benefits with [provider A] than if you transfer to us.
.
However you feel that as your [provider A] pension is only a small part of your retirement 
planning you are happy to lose the tax-free cash allowance.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the suitability letter clearly explained the impact of 
the transfer on Mr Bs tax-free cash entitlement from his provider A pension. I consider that 
SJP told Mr B that he would be able to take £482.78 less tax-free cash, in current terms, if 
he went ahead with the transfer. 
After the transfer, Mr Bs total tax-free cash entitlement wouldve been 25% of the 
transferred funds, or around £15,000. Therefore, as he would only be losing entitlement of around £500, I consider the loss of the protected tax-free cash entitlement wasnt a 
significant reason not to transfer. And I agree with SJP that the loss had very little impact on 
his overall tax-free cash entitlement after the transfer.
The suitability letter also covered other potential disadvantages of the transfer. Under this 
section, SJP covered the investment guarantee Mr B held with provider A. It said: 
-You will lose the [provider A] With Profit guarantee currently of 4% per annum
Your plan with [provider A] contains valuable guaranteed growth rates compared with the 
[SJP] Retirement Plan which has no guarantees and the fund value could go up or down.
The report also went into detail to explain the pros and cons of with profits investments. And 
noted that Mr B was: attracted by the transparency of unit linked policies and wasnt 
concerned about the loss of the effect of smoothing/bonus declaration which could be 
obtained from your With Profit policy and the fact that the underlying investments of a unit-
linked policy tend to be more speculative (and therefore more volatile) than a With Profit 
policy. 
Given the suitability letter did, in fact, cover the impact the transfer would have on Mr Bs 
guaranteed unit price increase with provider A, I cant fairly agree with our investigator that it 
did not. Im satisfied that SJP did cover the guaranteed unit price increase held with provider 
A. And I agree with it that its impact was minimal. I say this because of the relative size of 
the transferred fund compared to the total funds transferred. That is, the guarantee being 
lost only impacted around 4% of the assets held.  
At the end of the suitability letter, Mr B signed the client declaration, and dated it 11 
September 2014. It stated: 
I hereby confirm that the contents of this letter and report have been explained to me and 
that I have fully considered all the relevant information to enable me to make an informed 
decision on the recommendation set out above.
In particular I understand that future investment performance cannot be guaranteed and both 
income and capital available from my pension funds may be lower in future than as 
Illustrated in this report and when compared to the alternatives.
SJP said that this showed that Mr B had been aware of the advantages and disadvantages 
of transferring his pensions. And that hed made an informed decision to proceed with the 
transfer.
I acknowledge that Mr B said his 2021 complaint about the 2014 transfer advice was in part 
because he now better understood the July 2014 recommendation letter. But, from what Ive 
seen, he signed the declaration in 2014 stating that he had been able to make an informed 
decision on the recommendation at that time. 
And while I appreciate that there were errors in the bullet points of the suitability letter about 
there being no guarantees in the pension with provider A, and about the transfer not having 
an impact on the tax-free cash payable, Im satisfied that Mr B wouldve got a clear 
understanding of what the impact of the transfer would be in these areas if he read the whole 
report. As he signed the declaration stating that he had been through the contents of the 
report, I cant fairly say that SJP did anything wrong. Therefore, I dont intend to uphold this 
complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decisionSJP said it had no further comments to make. 
Mr B said he was disappointed by my provisional decision. But that he understood the 
reasons that I had agreed with SJP on this occasion. He felt that bullet points are the parts 
that are absorbed from letters. He felt that SJP had chosen to hide the correct information 
within the detail of a very long letter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I acknowledge Mr Bs point that the bullet points in SJPs letter had been the parts 
hed taken in, Ive no evidence that SJP chose to hide the correct information from him.  
As no new information has come to light to change my opinion, I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman