DRN-3008955
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited declined her claim made on 
her motor insurance policy. She wants it to reimburse her for the cost of her repairs. 
What happened
Mrs C found water inside her car and called Advantage to make a claim. She said she 
thought water was getting in through the windscreen. But Advantage told her she wasnt 
covered for windscreen failure. Mrs C then took her car to a repairer and it found water was 
entering her car through a vent. Advantage declined to reimburse her for her repair costs. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that 
Mrs C didnt have a valid claim as her policy wouldnt cover the damage caused. But he 
thought Advantage should have told Mrs C this more clearly when she first made a claim. He 
thought this would have avoided frustration and time spent on communications. So he 
thought Advantage should pay Mrs C £75 compensation for this. 
Advantage replied that it had thought the leak was caused by a poorly fitted windscreen. It 
said it had then correctly declined the claim as Mrs C didnt have windscreen cover. So it 
didnt think it should pay her compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this has been an expensive and frustrating experience for Mrs C. She 
had to pay over £5,000 to have her car repaired. And she says that after Advantage declined 
her claim it stopped communicating with her. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Mrs C firstly thought the water was getting into the car though the windscreen 
and causing internal damage. Later, she found the water was entering through a fixed vent. I 
can see that Mrs Cs policy, on page 12 of the policy booklet, has exclusions for damage 
caused to the windscreen, for wear and tear and for mechanical failure. I cant see that the 
damage was caused by an accident. So I think Advantage was correct in declining the claim. 
But I agree with the investigator that Advantage didnt clearly communicate the reasons why 
the claim was declined. In the notification call, Advantage told Mrs C that she could make a 
claim as long as the damage wasnt due to poor maintenance. But the agent didnt then 
question Mrs C about the circumstances and so establish whether she had a valid claim that 
was covered by her policy. 
Advantage called Mrs C back nine days later to get her version of events. It said her policy 
didnt provide windscreen cover and so it closed the claim. But Mrs C then found that the 
water was getting into the car though a vent and she thought, incorrectly, that she could now 
make a claim. 
I think the agent should have told Mrs C at the outset the reasons why the claim wouldnt be 
covered. I think Advantage failed to manage Mrs Cs expectations and caused her avoidable 
frustration. I also think if she had been better informed, she could have had her car repaired 
more quickly rather than wait for Advantages decision. The investigator thought Advantage 
should pay Mrs C £75 compensation for this poor communication. I think thats fair and 
reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance.
Putting things right
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs C £75 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its level of communication.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman