DRN-2020175
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined a claim made against 
their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G held a buildings insurance policy with AXA for their bungalow. In October 
2019 Mr G called to report that his living room ceiling had collapsed and that it appeared to 
be from an ingress of water as the plasterboard and loft insulation that had fallen into the 
living room were very wet. Following this, Mr and Mrs G hired a builder to carry out a 
temporary repair to the until the insurer had sent its surveyor. The builder found a hole in the 
roof which had allowed water to enter the property.
A few days later, AXAs surveyor visited the property and concluded that the damage to the 
roof wasnt consistent with storm damage. He said that the tile was cracked, which was more 
likely to be the result of existing wear and tear to the roof than the result of a storm.
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with the surveyors findings. They said that he didnt attempt to 
enter the loft space, despite it being easily accessibly then reported that he couldnt access 
it. They also said that the surveyor was rude to Mrs G.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, he said that the 
damage to the roof tile didnt seem consistent with storm damage. Mr and Mrs G didnt agree 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this is going to be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs G but Ive explained my reasons for this below. 
Mr and Mrs G believe AXA acted unfairly in declining their claim. So, Ive considered 
whether AXA has acted reasonably in saying Mr and Mrs G arent covered under their policy 
for the damage to their roof. 
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Gs policy documents to see what cover the policy provides. Their 
policy covers damage caused by a list of particular events, such as storm. When we 
consider storm damage, we ask three questions; 
Has it been proven, on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the date 
the problem occurred? 
Is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage?
Were the prevailing storm conditions the main or dominant case of the damage?
Its only if we can answer yes to all three questions that we can say the insurer is liable to 
pay the claim.
 
In this case, there is no dispute that there were storm conditions in the days leading up to Mr 
and Mrs G reporting the claim. As all parties agree there were storm conditions on or around 
the date the ceiling collapsed, I dont think I need to consider this aspect of the claim further.
I have then considered whether the cracked tile is consistent with storm damage. Mr and 
Mrs G have provided a report from the builder who repaired the damage to the roof stating 
that the roof tile was likely cracked by the tiles chattering during the storm. However AXAs 
surveyor has said that the cracked tile doesnt appear to be consistent with storm damage. 
Having considered this, Im not wholly convinced its likely a roof tile would have been 
cracked as a result of a storm. However I have no reason to disbelieve the builders 
statement in this regard, so I have then considered the third question. 
Having considered the damage that was caused, Im not satisfied that a roof in a good state 
of repair would suffer a crack to a single roof tile as a result of a storm. AXAs surveyor noted 
that he believed the main cause of the damage to be due to existing wear and tear. And he 
noted that there was at least one other cracked tile that had previously been repaired. This 
suggests that the cause of the cracking is due to the general condition of the roof tiles and 
that the storm only highlighted this existing issue, rather than caused a new issue. So for 
these reasons, I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to conclude that the main cause of 
the damage was wear and tear  which isnt covered under the policy.
Finally I have considered whether there are any other sections of the policy that Mr and 
Mrs G could make a claim for and I havent seen anything which suggests they could make a 
claim under the remaining terms of the policy, such as accidental damage cover.
So while I understand that Mr and Mrs G will be disappointed with the decision, I dont think 
AXA acted unfairly in declining their claim.
Mr and Mrs G have also raised concerns about the conduct of the surveyor while at their 
property. However the surveyors version of events is that Mr G became aggressive during 
the visit. The two versions of events are conflicting and, in any case, I dont think it changes 
the outcome of the claim.
I have also considered Mr and Mrs Gs comments that the surveyor didnt go into the loft. 
The report itself doesnt mention that there was no access, rather it says that there were 
health and safety concerns. But AXAs surveyor felt that the damage was visible enough to 
reach a determination  and I have no reason to question this. So while I realise this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs G, I dont think AXA needs to do anything further in 
relation to this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman