DRN-3846058
The complaint
Ms G and Mr H complain they were treated unfairly by their lender, Castle Trust Capital PLC, 
at the end of their mortgage term.
What happened
Ms G and Mr H took a five-year second charge buy-to-let mortgage with CT in June 2015 for 
approximately £123,000. That was a shared appreciation mortgage, where no repayments 
are made throughout the term. And the amount repayable at the end of the term is based on 
the capital borrowed and a share of the increase in the value of the property  measured by 
the Halifax House Price Index (HHPI). The mortgage term ended in June 2020 when, 
ordinarily, it would have become repayable.
As part of CTs covid measures, it offered all customers with mortgages maturing at that time 
an extension. The covid extension ran for six months and a fee wasnt charged. In 
November 2020, CT offered Ms G and Mr H another extension of six months which carried a 
fee of approximately £2,000 payable over three months. Ms G and Mr H accepted that offer.
Ms G and Mr H say that the initial extension was put in place by CT because of covid. So, 
they asked for the mortgage to be frozen  not to increase in line with HHPI at that time. But 
CT didnt accept that request. 
Ms G and Mr H say they were liaising with a specific CT representative to work out an 
affordable solution during the 18 months that followed. They say CT made offers of new 
interest rate loans to them  in July 2020, September 2020 and then in 2021 offered a rate of 
3.26%. But they say CT should have made the offer of 3.26% in June 2020 and that would 
have saved them approximately £45,000. Ms G and Mr H say its unfair that CT delayed 
making that offer.
The rate of 3.26% was proposed by CTs representative in June 2021 by text message and 
was based on CT lending Ms G and Mr H the additional amount to repay the first charge. But 
that offer was never formally made to Ms G and Mr H by CT. CT says Ms G and Mr H 
declined that proposal and thats why the offer was never formally made. Ms G and Mr H 
disputed that saying they didnt decline that rate, only asked that it could be reduced to 3% 
and the balance of the mortgage rolled back to June 2020. CT didnt agree to that and say 
Ms G and Mr H didnt then say theyd proceed on the 3.26% rate. It says that offer expired 
after 30 days.
CTs representative explored whether it was feasible to offer the interest-bearing loan to 
cover the first charge as well as its existing second charge mortgage. CT says the first 
charge lender has a requirement that any additional second charge funding must be for 
home improvement, as outlined on its website. That was a consideration here because, 
while CTs initial understanding when agreeing to the original mortgage was that it was for 
home improvements, it says it transpired that it was used to repay a previous mortgage. 
CT says the first charge lender didnt consent to the second charge where a monthly 
repayment was to be made by Ms G and Mr H, following an application Ms G and Mr H 
made via a broker in March 2020. CT says another offer  5.99% in respect of the second 
charge balance  was accepted by Ms G and Mr H, but again, the first charge lender didnt 
consent. So, the focus became covering both the first and second charge mortgages with a 
new loan.
Following discussions with CTs representative. Ms G and Mr H signed the second extension 
agreement, which lasted for six months. That took them up to the 3.26% proposal made by 
text in June 2021. CT says that proposal was a forbearance measure and a bespoke rate 
that wasnt available to other customers. It was based on rental income to make it affordable 
for Ms G and Mr H. As it was to cover the amounts outstanding for both first and second 
charge balances, consent from the first charge lender wouldnt have been required. CT 
would then have become the first charge lender. 
Ms G and Mr H wrote to CT in July 2021 outlining their concerns. They explained that the 
property is a flat above a shop in London and most lenders will not currently lend on that 
type of property. They said the rental value has dropped and service costs increased. Sale 
values have also decreased because covid has meant purchasers are looking for properties 
with gardens. Ms G and Mr H said if CT had offered the rate in June 2020 that it recently 
offered, theyd have had no need to extend the mortgage term. They said they want CT to 
roll back the outstanding balance to June/July 2020 and give them a rate equating to a 
monthly payment of approximately £450.00 per month on the second charge balance only.
CT met with Mr H in September 2021. CT wrote to Ms G and Mr H on 30 September 2021, 
summarising the meeting and its current position. It said Mr H estimated that the current 
value of the property was less than the value at the time he and Ms G took the mortgage 
with CT; payments with the first charge lender were up to date; Ms G and Mr H would be 
liable for £50,000 in capital gains tax on the sale of the property and there isnt sufficient 
equity to meet that liability. The letter also outlined other property owned either jointly or 
individually by Ms G and Mr H. And that theyd both completed income and expenditure 
assessment forms prior to the meeting. 
However, CT said it couldnt offer a lower rate than it already had done, and it couldnt find a 
solution based on Ms G and Mr Hs current disposable income. So, it concluded the only 
solution was the sale of the property  it couldnt continue to extend the loan with no 
repayment plan. But, as a gesture of goodwill, it would reduce the final loan amount 
repayable to £200,000, conditional upon the property being actively marketed and sale 
completed or exchanged by 31 December 2021 (extended to 28 February 2022 in CTs letter 
dated 29 November 2021).
Ms G and Mr H didnt meet the deadline given. In March 2022 CT wrote to them demanding 
full repayment of the mortgage amount outstanding - £237,358.07  within seven days. It 
said if full repayment was not made it would either appoint receivers or issue possession 
proceedings. It subsequently appointed receivers and informed Ms G and Mr H.
Ms G and Mr H raised a complaint with us in February 2022. CT had treated concerns theyd 
raised as a formal complaint and responded to those concerns in a letter dated 29 
November 2022, giving referral rights to this Service. The concerns addressed in that letter 
were:
Ms G and Mr H were led to believe CT would be able to offer a refinance deal that 
would meet their needs.
The only terms acceptable to Ms G and Mr H were not offered until a significant time 
had passed and that meant the mortgage balance increased significantly.CT didnt uphold Ms G and Mr Hs complaint. It said CT had attempted to assist                 
Ms G and Mr H in refinancing their mortgage but neither a product from its range nor a 
bespoke offer was accepted by them.
Our investigator also didnt uphold Ms G and Mr Hs complaint. She said she thought it was 
fair that CT continued to charge interest after the mortgage was due to be repaid that it 
didnt offer Ms G and Mr H the rate they wanted. She also said she didnt think CTs 
appointment of receivers was unfair in the circumstances.
Ms G and Mr H didnt agree. They said the original covid extension was instigated by CT. 
And at that time they were led to believe CT would work out a refinance package that would 
work for Ms G and Mr H. They say they didnt reject the offer of 3.26%, they only asked that 
it could be closer to 3% and that the balance of the mortgage be rolled back to its balance 
at the end of the original mortgage term.
As Ms G and Mr H didnt agree with our investigator, their complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Ms G and Mr Hs complaint, Ive thought about whether CT acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with them at the time their mortgage was due to be repaid. 
Specifically, Ive thought about whether CT misled Ms G and Mr H about any refinance deal 
it may be able to offer, whether it should have offered a lower interest rate deal sooner and 
whether it was reasonable that the terms of the initial mortgage remained while the parties 
discussed a refinance deal.
Were Ms G and Mr H misled by CT about a refinance deal
Ms G and Mr H say CT wrote to them to say it would extend the mortgage on 30 March 2020 
and, they say, CT would benefit from the extension because of the rising HHPI that did not 
mirror the London (the location of Ms G and Mr Hs property) market. Ms G and Mr H quoted 
a section from CTs letter of 30 March 2020, saying:
As your existing deal above is a refinance of an existing CT loan, we have taken the 
decision to offer an extension for up to 6 months. We will be in touch on the next 
steps with regards to this extension, as soon as we have the internal logistics on this 
completed.
Ms G and Mr H also said this reassured them that the extension with a forthcoming 
improved offer [for a refinance deal] would work out okay.
The letter Ms G and Mr H refer to coincides with and appears to be driven by the start of the 
covid pandemic and the first UK lockdown. And other aspects of the letter Ms G and Mr H 
have highlighted to us indicate that CTs offer to extend may have been partly motivated by 
the operational difficulties caused to it by the lockdown. But Ive not seen evidence to 
indicate that the extension was motivated by any gain CT may make by any delay in the 
repayment of the mortgage. And I dont think any such gain was guaranteed or could have 
been accurately predicted by CT given the uncertainty affecting all areas of finance and 
commerce at that time.
The excerpt from CTs letter quoted above refers to the extension as an offer. I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest that it was obligatory or that CT wouldnt have accepted full repayment of the mortgage when it became due in June 2020. I also havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that Ms G and Mr H were in the financial position to repay the mortgage 
at that time. So, I dont think the initial extension of the loan  fee free  was and 
unreasonable offer from CT at that time.
I wouldnt necessarily read into the excerpts of the letter Ms G and Mr H have provided to us 
that CT would ultimately make a refinance offer that would be acceptable to Ms G and Mr H. 
But, I know there was much contact between Ms G and Mr H and CTs representative about 
a deal and I think its possible CTs representative may have been more explicit in his 
confidence about being able to provide a deal Ms G and Mr H were likely to accept. But, 
even if that were the case, I dont think that means it would have been reasonable for        
Ms G and Mr H to expect that CT would continue to make improved offers until they 
accepted one.
Although it was never formalized, all parties agree that a refinance offer of 3.26% was 
offered in June 2021. I know Ms G and Mr H say they didnt reject that offer, but I think it was 
reasonable for CT to assume it wasnt acceptable to them, given that they replied by saying 
they wanted it reduced further  to 3% or lower  with the balance rolled back to that at the 
end of the original mortgage term. I say that because I think the deal Ms G and Mr H appear 
to have been looking for and the deal CT had offered was still significantly different. And CT 
had already reduced its offer substantially from that originally made from its product range 
when it made the bespoke offer in June 2021.
From the evidence available, I think CT made an offer  3.26% in June 2021  that was 
significantly lower than its ordinary product range, having considered Ms G and Mr Hs 
circumstances. Ive seen nothing to suggest that CT was obliged to do more than that or that 
anything it said to Ms G and Mr H should reasonably have led them to believe that it would.
Should CT have offered Ms G and Mr H a lower interest rate refinance deal sooner
The bespoke rate offered to Ms G and Mr H in June 2021 came at the end of the second 
extension  an extension Ms G and Mr H had paid for, as would ordinarily have been the 
case for such an extension. During the time between that and the end of the original 
mortgage term  approximately one year  Ms G and Mr H had two six-month extensions. 
And the circumstances changed during that time along with CTs knowledge of those 
circumstances. CT had originally thought it would refinance the outstanding balance on     
Ms G and Mr Hs second charge mortgage with it. But it became apparent that it would only 
be feasible to refinance the mortgage under the first charge along with the mortgage under 
the second charge. It appears that Ms G and Mr H also looked into refinancing elsewhere 
with the help of a broker.
I dont think CT was obliged to offer Ms G and Mr H a refinance deal at all  though if         
Ms G and Mr H couldnt repay the loan I would expect to have seen some degree of 
forbearance. But the original mortgage did become repayable in June 2020 and it was a buy-
to-let mortgage that was unregulated. So, I think its reasonable that CT initially offered deals 
from its standard product range. The extensions it allowed meant that repayment of the 
original mortgage became less urgent. At the end of the second extension, CT explored and 
offered a bespoke solution based on Ms G and Mr Hs circumstances at the time. It says it 
offered a bespoke solution as a forbearance measure. 
I dont have the power to tell a business what interest rate it should offer an existing or new 
borrower. But I think, given that the rate it offered was significantly lower than those in its 
ordinary product range, the offer amounted to reasonable forbearance from CT at a time 
when the extension in place expired. As I dont have the power to tell a business what rate it should offer and the rate offered was bespoke to Ms G and Mr Hs circumstances at that 
time, I cant conclude it should have made that offer sooner. 
Was it reasonable that the amount repayable on Ms G and Mr Hs mortgage remained linked 
to the HHPI after the end of the original mortgage term
From the time after the original mortgage term expired Ms G and Mr H didnt accept an offer 
for a feasible refinance deal from CT. But the money it owed to CT under the mortgage 
remained outstanding for that time. And the other terms of the original mortgage remained in 
place  such as there being no requirement for Ms G and Mr H to make monthly payments 
to the mortgage account.
Ms G and Mr Hs mortgage loan agreement says the loan must be repaid at the end of the 
term. So, I think CT could have sought to enforce that soon after the end of the original 
mortgage term. I think it took a much more reasonable approach. And I dont think it was 
unreasonable for CT to continue to link the mortgage to HHPI while the balance remained 
outstanding. I say that because I would expect to see interest charged on a more 
conventional type of mortgage where the term ended and the balance remained outstanding. 
I dont think it would be reasonable for me to expect a different standard in this case just 
because the mortgage is structured differently. 
Summary
I understand that Ms G and Mr Hs circumstances  and those of the wider economy  have 
made it difficult for them to repay their mortgage at the end of its original term. But, from the 
evidence available, I havent seen that CT has acted unreasonably in its dealings with them 
at that time. So, I dont uphold Ms G and Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Ms G and Mr Hs complaint about Castle Trust Capital 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman