DRN-2666337
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains about the way The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc 
(TMW) has administered a buy-to-let mortgage and, in particular, its decision to appoint 
receivers.
Mr M is Ms director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
When M took out its buy-to-let mortgage with TMW, shareholding in the company was held 
on a 50:50 basis between Mr M and Miss T. Changes were subsequently made to the 
shareholding, with both Mr M and Miss Ts interest transferred to a holding company. 
After identifying this change, TMW wrote to M on 19 October 2018 to say that it represented 
a breach of the mortgage terms and conditions. Mr M replied to say that control of M hadnt 
changed and asked for details of the alleged breach, which he said M would amend if 
deemed appropriate. 
TMW wrote to M on 4 March 2019 with more detail. It explained that the shareholders of the 
company could only be changed with its prior written consent and requested that within 21 
days, M either confirm the amendment of the shareholding back to Mr M and Miss T or 
redeem the mortgage in full.
Mr M wrote to TMW on 17 March 2019 and advised that the shareholding status had been 
rectified as requested. But TMW wasnt satisfied, as this wasnt reflected on records held 
with Companies House. In its letter of 7 May 2019, it said that must be done by 24 May 2019 
or the account would be transferred to its collection department and a receiver would be 
appointed.
M disputed TMWs right to appoint a receiver and said that updates would be made to 
Companies House records when the next confirmation statement was submitted, which 
wasnt due until 9 November 2019.
TMW proceeded with the appointment of receivers and confirmed this to M in its letter of 
19 June 2019. 
The Companies House records were updated to reflect Mr M and Miss Ts shareholding on 
15 July 2019. TMW confirmed this was acceptable in its letter of 17 July 2019, and stood 
down the receivers that day. 
Mr M complained about TMWs handling of the alleged breach, including that it had failed to 
respond to a number of queries and requests for information from him and Ms solicitors. He 
also said that TMW hadnt updated Ms correspondence address and had failed to respond 
to a separate request to make changes to the shareholding in M. 
TMW said it had done nothing wrong in respect of the breach. It said that the special 
conditions of the mortgage offer stated that consent must be obtained before any change to 
the company directors, and that it had appointed receivers after making repeated requests 
for M to comply. But it did accept that it had failed to provide a copy of the mortgage terms 
and conditions as Mr M had requested, and paid £50 compensation for the inconvenience 
this caused. 
Regarding Ms correspondence address, TMW said it had asked M for written confirmation 
of its updated address but not received this. And on the request to make changes to the 
shareholding, TMW said it had considered this to have been addressed by an earlier letter 
advising of its policy.
Mr M remained unhappy and referred the complaint to us. It was reviewed by one of our 
investigators, who didnt think it should be upheld. He said the mortgage terms and 
conditions required TMWs consent to a change in the company directors or shareholding. M 
hadnt obtained this, which amounted to a breach of its obligations. And given that breach, 
TMW had then been entitled to appoint a receiver. Although M had told TMW it had made 
the necessary changes prior to the appointment of receivers, this was only confirmed with 
Companies House some time later.
Our investigator said that TMW had confirmed its decision to decline Ms request for consent 
to transfer shares in a letter of 7 May 2019, and didnt think it had done anything wrong in 
respect of the correspondence address details it held and used for M.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. He said that the terms and conditions only 
required M to notify TMW of any proposed change of directors or shareholding  and didnt 
specify that this needed to be done before the change, or that the change would require 
TMWs approval. He thought M had properly notified TMW of the change in response to 
TMWs correspondence about the matter. So he didnt think TMW had the right to require a 
change to the shareholding, or the basis on which to appoint receivers. 
Mr M also maintained that TMW ought to have updated Ms correspondence address after 
he submitted a written request in November 2018 and that this  along with failures to 
respond to some correspondence and requests for information about the breach  had 
caused the company some inconvenience. He also said that TMW had failed to respond to 
Ms request for consent to transfer some of the shareholding, which it submitted after the 
letter of 7 May 2019 that TMW and our investigator had cited.
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying that while Ive considered everything Mr M has said and provided us 
in the course of this complaint, my findings wont address each and every point hes raised. 
Rather Ive concentrated on the matters I consider most relevant to how Ive reached my 
decision, which I hope he wont take as a discourtesy.
The appointment of receivers
Theres no dispute that there were changes to Ms shareholding after it took out the 
mortgage in question. Its also accepted that M didnt request or obtain consent from TMW 
before the changes were made.The special conditions that formed part of the mortgage offer included the following term:
Consent from us must be obtained before the Directors or beneficial 
owners of the company change or the trading activities are amended. We 
reserve the right to increase the interest rate in the event of any changes.
So I think it was a requirement under the terms of the mortgage agreement that M obtain 
consent before amending its directors or beneficial owners. The beneficial ownership of M 
changed from that of Mr M and Miss T, to the holding company (of which I understand Mr M 
had significant control). M didnt obtain the requisite consent from TMW before making this 
change.
In addition to the special conditions, the mortgage was also subject to TMWs standard BTL 
mortgage conditions. Of relevance here, these included the following terms:
You will at all times during the continuance of the security hereby created:
 where you are a company you will notify us of any proposed change in the 
directors of the company or shareholding in excess of 5% of the issued share 
of the company and if so requested by us procure the joint and several 
guarantee of any new director(s) approved by us
M was therefore required to notify TMW of any proposed change, which it also did not do.
I understand from what Mr M has said that even if M didnt comply with these requirements, 
this still didnt TMW the right to appoint receivers. But I dont agree. Under the standard 
mortgage conditions, TMW had the power to appoint receivers in a number of specified 
circumstances. Of relevance here, these included where:
you are in breach of any of your other covenants or obligations under the 
mortgage or the offer;
 any circumstances arise which give grounds, in our opinion, for the belief 
that either you or the guarantor may not (or may be unable to) perform or 
comply with their obligations under the mortgage and these conditions
As I think M had breached its obligations, it follows that I think TMW had the power to 
appoint receivers  under the first circumstance Ive quoted above. Even if I were to accept 
that wasnt the case, I think that TMW still had the power to do so under the second 
circumstance quoted above, on the basis that the changes to Ms ownership wouldve given 
it grounds for concern as to whether M would comply with its obligations in light of the 
changes. 
In short, I think it took reasonable steps to protect its position given the potentially significant 
consequences of changes to Ms ownership.
While I note that M confirmed it had reverted its ownership to that of Mr M and Miss T before 
receivers were appointed, I dont think TMW acted unreasonably in requiring evidence of this 
by way of the update being registered with Companies House. It explained this requirement 
to M along with the consequences of not doing so, and provided reasonable time for the 
necessary action to be taken. I understand that the matter did cause M some inconvenience and that it incurred costs in 
obtaining legal advice  in addition to the costs incurred in relation to the receivers. But in 
order to me award any compensation for this, Id have to find that TMW made an error or 
acted unfairly  and for the reasons set out above, I dont think it did.
TMW has already accepted that it failed to provide the terms and conditions that Mr M 
requested. I appreciate this wouldve caused some inconvenience, but I dont think this had 
a significant impact on events. So I think the £50 compensation that TMW has already paid 
is fair and Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Changes to the correspondence address
In his letter of 17 November 2018, Mr M requested that TMW change the correspondence 
address it held for M. 
While theres been some confusion over this, TMWs internal records seem to show that this 
was updated on 4 March 2019. And correspondence about the changes to Ms ownership 
and appointment of receivers thereafter appears to have been sent to the correct address. 
TMW also confirmed to us in January 2020 that the address it held for M was that provided 
by Mr M in his letter of 17 November 2018. So I cant see that TMW has done much wrong, 
or even if the records werent properly updated, that this has had much of an impact on M.
While this complaint has been with us, Mr M has shown us that TMW has still sent some 
correspondence to a different address. Thats regrettable and I cant see good reason for it. 
But although I accept this will have been frustrating for Mr M, I dont think its had such an 
impact that compensation is warranted. It seems M still received the correspondence, and 
the matter was clarified via our investigator when raised.
I note that a further change to the address has since been arranged and confirmed by TMW, 
so I trust there will be no further issues regarding Ms correspondence address. But M would 
have the right to raise a further complaint should any arise. 
Request for consent to shareholding changes
Mr M says that TMW has never responded to Ms request of 9 May 2019 requesting consent 
for a transfer of some shareholding. But TMW set out its position in its final response to the 
complaint on 9 August 2019. It referred Mr M to the contents of its letter of 7 May 2019. 
While that letter predated the request, the final response didnt  and it confirmed that TMW 
was unable to consent to a parent company holding shares.
I understand from Mr M has said that he doesnt think TMWs position on this matter is fair, 
or even allowed for under the terms and conditions of the mortgage agreement. But that is a 
different complaint from the one that was originally presented to TMW (and then us) that it 
had failed to respond to the request. 
As a result, this is something that would need to be dealt with by way of a separate 
complaint so that TMW has the opportunity to respond and, if it deems appropriate, put 
things right. M would then have the right to refer that matter to us, should it be dissatisfied 
with TMWs response.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman