DRN-2828230
The complaint
Mr R complains that his pension fund dropped in value due to delays and negligence by 
Scottish Widows Limited (SW).
What happened
Mr R applied for a SW pension online in February 2020. He wanted to transfer his pension 
from another provider as they didnt have a drawdown option he could access. 
Mr R called SW the day he submitted his application. The SW agent told Mr R that the 
chosen retirement age had to be at least one year into the future for an illustration to be 
produced. They also explained that the whole transfer process would take 4-6 weeks. Mr R 
called back to get the transfer value as at that date and was told it was £208,116.81.
SW produced an illustration of the benefits Mr R could get from the Retirement Account hed 
applied for. They also sent a welcome letter explaining what he needed to do. And a Key 
Features document. 
After receiving the information, Mr R called SW on 13 February 2020 to clarify some points. 
He wanted to enter drawdown and take tax-free cash (TFC) once the money had been 
transferred and invested. He said he wanted to be invested in a balanced medium risk fund. 
The SW agent explained the importance of the chosen retirement age, noting that this was 
still needed even though Mr R had already stopped working. 
Mr R spoke to another SW agent the same day. He said he wanted to take 25% TFC and 
annual payments of around £10,000. He said he didnt want to change this at age 75. He 
said that he didnt want the system to alter his investments once he reached age 75. The 
agent explained that all SW retirement plans were initially written to age 75. He said that Mr 
R had chosen the balanced targeted flexible access fund. The agent explained that once SW 
had received the money Mr R could call SW to tell them how he wanted to access it. But 
noted that as the plan had been set up on a non-advised basis Mr R had limited options 
before the money arrived. Once the policy was live, Mr R would be able to request his TFC 
and invest the remainder as he liked.
SW received Mr Rs transfer on 27 February 2020. £207,782.35 was received. They issued 
policy documents and a cancellation notice to Mr R on 29 February 2020. Mr R said he 
received these documents on 4 March 2020. He called SW as instructed in the documents to 
tell them where he wanted to invest his money.
At this point Mr Rs transferred funds were already invested in the Balanced Risk category. 
Mr R said this wasnt what he wanted. He said he didnt want to be invested in stocks and 
shares. So the agent said that SW could disinvest the funds and place them in the Control 
Account. The agent explained there would be charges in doing this which would affect the 
value of the policy. Mr R said he didnt want to do this. So the agent asked him which funds 
he did want to invest in. Mr R asked SW to change his investment to the Cautious Risk 
category. He said that the fact that his fund had already been invested was SWs error. So 
therefore it should be backdated to the date SW received it, which was 27 February 2020. 
The SW agent Mr R spoke to that day agreed that SW had made an error. Mr R asked for 
confirmation that his fund value would be backdated to correct SWs error. SWs agent said it 
would be.
SW wrote to Mr R on 7 March 2020 to inform him that his funds had been moved to cautious 
funds on 6 March 2020.
Mr R complained to SW on 14 March 2020. He explained that he was concerned that his 
transferred funds had been invested before he spoke to SW. He said that the SW agent hed 
spoken to on 4 March 2020 had agreed that the funds would be backdated to when they had 
been received (27 February 2020), to a new fund of his choice. He also raised concerns 
about the Retirement Age that had to be input on his application, even though he was 
already retired. 
In their 24 March 2020 final response letter, SW partially upheld Mr Rs complaint. They said 
hed been given incorrect information about the backdating of his funds. And offered him £75 
for this error. They didnt uphold the rest of his complaint. They noted that when Mr R had 
completed his application form, hed asked to be invested in the Governed Investment 
Strategy with the funds invested in the Balanced Risk category. They said that the illustration 
theyd provided showed how his funds would be initially invested. And explained that the 
strategy hed chosen meant that his funds would be moved into lower risk investments as he 
neared his chosen retirement age. SW said that Mr R had stated that his retirement age was 
75 on his application form. They said that this was the oldest age available at the application 
state, but that it could be delayed at any time up to age 99 once the policy was live and all 
Mr Rs funds were in the income element of his policy. They said this could only happen 
once Mr R had taken his TFC. SW said that Mr R had raised the issue of his retirement age 
on his call on 13 February 2020. SW also said that Mr Rs investment was changed to the 
Cautious Risk category as at 6 March 2020, which was the earliest date it couldve been 
done following his 4 March 2020 call. SW acknowledged that Mr R was told that this change 
would be backdated to 27 February 2020, but that that was incorrect information. They said 
theyd followed his investment instructions.
On 1 April 2020 Mr R called SW and requested the payment of his TFC. He also asked to 
move the remaining funds into his Control Account. And to change his Retirement Age to 99. 
Mr R had to make a second call to SW that day. During that call Mr R asked for payment of 
25% TFC. And a regular income of £10,000 per year. SW explained that they recommended 
Mr R disinvest 26% of his total fund to cover any fluctuations in value. But Mr R said he only 
wanted to disinvest 25%.
On 7 April 2020 Mr R asked SW to confirm when his request to take his TFC would be 
actioned.
Mr R called SW again on 9 April 2020. He was told that the TFC payment hadnt been made 
yet as incorrect bank details had been provided for the payment of his regular income. On 15 
April 2020, SW sent the forms Mr R needed to complete to action his request to take income 
from his retirement account. They also confirmed his total policy value as at 15 April 2020 of 
£192,967.46. And that hed like to take a TFC of £46,746.07.
Mr R said he received the TFC by BACs on 17 April 2020. He said hed yet to receive written 
confirmation that his remaining funds had been invested in the Control Account. 
On 21 April 2020 Mr R contacted SW about a letter dated 17 April 2020 theyd sent him. He 
said hed needed to call them because they hadnt changed his retirement age to 99. He 
asked them to add this point to his original complaint. SW issued a second final response letter on 19 May 2020. They upheld part of Mr Rs 
complaint. They acknowledged that his Nominated Retirement Date (NRD) was not 
amended to age 99 as hed requested. They apologised for this. And arranged to pay Mr R 
£25. SW declined Mr Rs complaint that theyd delayed the payment of his TFC. And the 
move of his remaining funds to the Control Account. They said that when they disinvest 
funds for the payment of TFC, they always suggest that 26% is disinvested. This is to cover 
any fluctuations in the market. They said that as Mr R had asked that only 25% be 
disinvested, their agent had told him that if there was a significant fluctuation theyd need
to contact him again to complete a further disinvestment instruction. This would delay the 
payment of his TFC. They said Mr R had confirmed he was happy to proceed as hed 
requested. And that hed understood what hed been told. SW said that once the TFC 
payment had been made, the remaining funds were invested in the Control Account. SW 
said that when Mr Rs claim was processed, due to a fluctuation in the market, there were 
insufficient disinvested funds to make the payment of his TFC.
Unhappy with SWs response, Mr R brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She felt SW had treated Mr R fairly. She didnt 
think SW had caused any of the delays. And noted that theyd acted on the instructions they 
received from Mr R, and according to their terms. Our investigator acknowledged that SW 
had made a mistake when their agent had said SW were responsible for Mr Rs fund being 
invested in the Balanced fund. But she didnt agree that SW were responsible. And she 
didnt feel that SW should be held liable for what their agent had offered to correct a mistake 
that theyd not actually made. 
Mr R didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that SWs agents offer had been a 
contractual agreement. So felt that SW should honour the promise their agent made. During 
a call with our investigator Mr R explained that he understood from a generic brochure 
provided by SW that if he chose the Balanced fund it would mean he was invested in cash.
Our investigator asked for a copy of the brochure - Retirement Planning Investment Options 
for Direct Customers - from SW, which they provided. She then issued her second view, 
which didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. She couldnt agree with Mr Rs explanation for his 
misunderstanding of his investment choice. She felt that the brochure hed referenced 
explained what would be invested at key points in the time to the chosen retirement age. 
She didnt think SW had done anything wrong that they needed to correct or further 
compensate Mr R for.
Mr R didnt agree. He made the following points:
SW had apologised to him on three occasions because theyd accepted theyd made 
errors. He disagreed with our investigator, who he felt had said SW had done nothing 
wrong. 
He noted that the third error had been resolved. He said that on the other two 
occasions when SW had admitted to errors, theyd offered compensation which hed 
not accepted. 
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators focus of the call he had with SWs agent on 
13 February 2020. He said hed spent a great deal of time teasing out what the term 
retirement meant. And that hed wanted to take 25% TFC immediately. He said that 
as he was allowed to open his Retirement Account without a Financial Adviser, he 
felt SW had a duty to make their communications clear. He didnt think it was reasonable that the confirmation of receipt of funds was 
received a week after the transfer.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators interpretation of the call hed had with SW on 
4 March 2020. He said hed learned that his fund had reduced by around £5,000. He 
said he didnt say that SW had made a mistake by not putting my money into a 
Cautious fund. He said hed followed the instructions hed been given on 13 February 
2020 to contact SW as soon as hed received confirmation of the transfer. He said he 
couldnt believe that a company with a duty of care to him would knowingly lose 
£5,000 of his money in a falling market when they were fully aware that he wanted to 
immediately take 25% as TFC. And that was the error. 
He also said that when he applied, he had to put down one of a limited range of 
choices. And that hed never suggested that hed applied for anything else. But that it 
wasnt obvious when he applied that a stock market collapse might affect his transfer.
He profoundly disagreed with our investigator about the backdating offer. He said if 
the offer hadnt been made, he wouldve made a different decision. He felt that our 
investigator had implied that hed pressured SWs agent into making the backdating 
offer. And said that wasnt the case.  
Mr R said that if hed not trusted what SW had told him on 13 February 2020, he 
could at any time have changed his application. 
Mr R said that SWs systems had accepted his bank account number for his annual 
payment. He said that SW did nothing to resolve this issue until he got in touch with 
them later to ask what was happening. While he didnt dispute that hed accidently 
given them a number that was a digit too short, he did dispute that they acted 
professionally and with integrity. And felt that this had caused him a detriment when 
trying to access his TFC.
He said that at the point he received his TFC his fund value was higher than the 
"backdated" value. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
To uphold a complaint Id need to consider whether the balance of evidence supports that a 
business has done something wrong and caused a customer a loss. Having looked at all the 
evidence, Im not persuaded that SW have caused Mr R a loss. Ill explain why.
Id like to thank Mr R for his submissions, including his recent phone call with our 
investigator. Ive listened to that call twice. So I understand his position and his strength of 
feeling about his complaint. 
Before I start, Id like to acknowledge Mr Rs point that SW have made errors, for which 
theyve apologised and offered compensation. My role is to decide whether the 
compensation offered was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Our investigator also 
considered exactly this point when looking at Mr Rs complaint.SW offered compensation of £75 for their agent incorrectly offering to backdate Mr Rs 
investment switch on 4 March 2020. They also offered £25 for failing to process an 
instruction given about a revised retirement date. SW confirmed to this service that the £75 
was paid on 24 March 2020 by cheque. And that the £25 they offered on 19 May 2020 
hadnt been paid as it wasnt accepted.
From what Ive seen, there were two pivotal phone calls with SW that Mr R feels led to him 
being disadvantaged. Ive listened to those phone calls. But I dont agree that SW gave Mr R 
information on those calls that caused him to be disadvantaged. I consider that Mr R didnt 
fully understand what had to happen before he could take the actions he wanted to with his 
transferred funds. And that this caused him to believe that SW had made an error with how 
theyd invested the transfer. But theres no evidence that SW did invest his funds incorrectly. 
Ill consider the relevant content of those calls next.
Call on 13 February 2020
Mr R said he told the agent that he wanted to withdraw 25% of the transferred funds and 
then take a first small drawdown before the end of the tax year. The agent told him that he 
would receive a letter telling him when the funds had been transferred. And that as soon as 
he got that letter he could phone SW to tell them exactly how he wanted to invest the 
transferred funds. 
Mr R said he found this confirmation reassuring as he believed his money was entirely safe. 
But that was a misconception. Hed already agreed to invest his funds as soon as they were 
transferred into the Governed investment strategy in the Balanced risk category. So his 
money was at risk of stock market changes.
In the call the agent explained that once the money had been received and Mr R had got the 
confirmation letter he could call SW to change where his pension was invested. The agent 
explained that Mr R would have access to more investment options at this point. Mr R 
agreed that the investment options were limited. He wanted the middle option to start with  
the Balanced risk. But would change his investment to the pension portfolio after hed 
accessed his TFC. Im satisfied that none of the information the agent gave to Mr R was 
misleading or incorrect.
But Mr R told this service that he felt that, as he was already retired, his transferred funds 
would be held in cash until he took his TFC and told SW where he wanted to invest the 
remainder of the funds. He said: I believed, looking at the tables, that the money would be 
invested in cash. If youre 0 years from retirement money will be invested in cash. Mr R also 
said: Given the fact that I was allowed to join without a Financial Advisor does SW not owe 
me a duty to make communications clear  to ensure I understand?. 
I acknowledge how complex pensions paperwork and terminology can be. So I do have 
sympathy with Mr Rs position. But having listened to all of the calls from 12 February 2020 
and 13 February 2020, and reviewing the written evidence, Im not persuaded that it would 
be fair or reasonable to hold SW responsible for his misunderstanding of his investment 
situation. From what Ive seen and heard, SW gave Mr R accurate information. And 
answered all of his questions accurately. SWs email dated 12 February 2020 confirmed 
that: Based on your selections the Governed Investment Strategy your pension pot will be 
invested in is Balanced targeting flexible access. So while I acknowledge that Mr R may not 
have been clear that his funds would be invested in the Balanced risk fund - as hed chosen 
 before he could access his TFC, I cant hold SW responsible for that. Mr R also said that when the letter hed been told to wait for came on 4 March 2020, it was 
dated 29 February 2020 and confirmed receipt of the funds on 27 February 2020. He said 
that this meant hed already lost six days where he hadnt been able to choose his 
investment. He didnt understand why he hadnt received the letter sooner. 
As our investigator noted, the funds were received on 27 February 2020, which was a 
Thursday. The letter confirming that the funds had been received was dated 29 February 
2020, which was a Saturday. So the post was unlikely to have been sent until Monday 2 
March 2020. SW told this service that their Service Level Agreement for sending out letters 
is between 3-5 working days. Therefore I agree with our investigator that it was reasonable 
that Mr R only received the letter on 4 March 2020. And Ive found no evidence that SW 
delayed the confirmation. 
Call on 4 March 2020
Mr R told this service that he didnt say that SW had made a mistake by not putting his 
money into a Cautious fund. He said he couldnt believe that a company with a duty of care 
to him would knowingly lose his money in a falling market when they knew that he wanted to 
immediately take 25% as TFC. He felt that this was SWs error and that it had a significant 
impact on him.
Ive listened to this call twice to ensure I correctly represent Mr R and SWs agent. Mr R 
initially explained that hed transferred to SW to immediately enter drawdown. His funds had 
now transferred. So he wanted to make sure they were invested as he wished. And that they 
would be available at the time he wanted to take out his 25% TFC. The agent confirmed that 
he could take the TFC out at any time. And that his funds were invested in the Governed 
investment strategy in the Balanced risk fund. 
At this point in the call, Mr R said: that isnt what I asked for. What I wish is.. rock solid, as 
secure as its possible to get. Ive no evidence that Mr R had ever asked for this before. In 
fact, during earlier call with another SW agent Mr R requested the Balanced medium risk 
fund. 
Later on in the call Mr R said: since the money has come to you I was told to ring to instruct 
you to invest that money into your maximum security as opposed to maximum return 
investment account.  And that he wanted to go into absolutely secure funds, as opposed 
to balanced or risky. He then said: someone seems to have jumped the gun and put the 
money into an account that I didnt want it to go into.
SWs agent said: What we can do, we can disinvest it from what its currently invested in at 
the moment and put it in the control account.  At this point Mr R said: But it should have 
been in the control account. Its really important that you take on board I do not expect to see 
any increase or decrease in the amount that was transferred.
The agent then explained fund charges. Mr R said: No, youre not going to take money off it. 
You havent done what I asked you to do. SW have chosen to invest it in something I didnt 
want them to do and Ive been clear about this from the outset. 
The agent apologised at this point and asked Mr R where hed like to invest the transfer. A 
little later, Mr R said: It hasnt escaped my notice that if Id been with [previous provider 
name] for another 2 weeks Id have probably lost a lot of money anyway so Im glad I got out 
when I did. He then asked to be invested in Cautious risk. He said: Id like it to be 
retrospectively put into that one because my understanding was that Id have a conversation 
before a decision was made to put it into something I dont want. The agent said shed get it switched over as Mr R: hadnt made a decision yet, or SW hadnt 
put it into the correct one. Mr R asked her to confirm what would happen: I just want to be 
really clear, what youre going to do is put it in the fund I require, and it will be as if it was put 
in on the 27 February. So the capital would be the same. What Im worried about is that the 
stock market fell very badly last week. So it wouldnt surprise me if the fund value hadnt 
fallen since then. At this point in the call the agent said she could see it was a SW error and 
so shed backdate it to the correct fund. Mr R asked for confirmation of this offer in writing: 
As long as Ive got something that says [fund value] has been transferred effective 27 
February into the Cautious account. 
Having listened carefully to this call and looked at all the available evidence, Im not 
persuaded that SWs agent caused Mr R a loss. From what I can tell, Mr R indicated that an 
error had been made by someone at SW on more than one occasion during this call. I 
acknowledge that he didnt ever say that SW had made a mistake by not putting his money 
into the Cautious fund. But I consider that when SWs agent agreed to backdate the fund 
switch, she was under the impression that SW had made an error. While I agree that SWs 
agent shouldnt have made the offer, I consider that she made it on the understanding that 
SW had incorrectly invested Mr Rs transferred funds. But Ive no evidence that they did that. 
Mr R told this service that in making the offer, SWs agent caused him to act differently and 
that led to him losing out financially. He said: if the offer had not been made I would have 
had to make a different decision. Mr R told us that when hed had the call with SW on 4 
March 2020 he was already aware of the market crash. He said he didnt want to lose the 
approximately £5K his fund was already down by. And that if SWs agent had said that they 
couldnt backdate his investment choice, he wouldve said: Ive got to take the money now. 
Mr R said that even though he knew that the market was falling, when the agent offered to 
backdate the transfer it made him leave his money with SW. So he feels that he was mis-
advised. But I dont agree that he was. 
SWs agent didnt give Mr R any advice  she wasnt allowed to. From what Ive seen, hed 
misunderstood how the transfer would work. He hadnt appreciated that it would be invested 
in the Balanced risk fund before he accessed his TFC. So he concluded that someone at 
SW had made a mistake. He indicated this to SWs agent on more than one occasion on the 
4 March 2020. So she offered to correct the error she felt SW had been made. So it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable to ask SW to honour this offer as it was based on incorrect information 
from Mr R.
I appreciate that Mr R feels that the offer itself has caused him a further loss. He said he 
wouldve taken his money immediately if the offer hadnt been made. But Im not persuaded 
by this. Mr R was offered several alternative options on the 4 March 2020 call. One of these 
was an immediate move to cash. Mr R didnt take this option, which wouldve prevented any 
further losses due to a falling stock market. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold SW 
responsible for what happened to his transferred funds after the 4 March 2020 call. 
SW offered and paid £75 compensation for the error their agent made in making the offer to 
backdate. I consider that this was fair under the circumstances.
Ill now consider Mr Rs complaint about the delay to his TFC payment. 
Delay to TFC payment
Mr R requested payment of 25% TFC on 1 April 2020. And he asked for the remaining funds 
to be placed in the control account and a regular payment set up of £10,000 each year. 
Mr R provided correct bank account details for the TFC payment. But incorrect details for the 
annual payment. He also asked for his NRD to be changed to 99. SW acknowledged in their May 2020 final response letter that they failed to process the NRD request. And offered Mr R 
£25 compensation as an apology. As Ive seen no evidence that this temporary failure 
caused Mr R any loss, I consider this is fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
SW said that when disinvesting funds for the payment of TFC they always suggest 
disinvesting 26% to cover any fluctuations in the market. Mr R only requested 25% be 
disinvested. SW said their agent advised him that if there was a significant fluctuation they 
would need to contact him again to complete a further disinvestment instruction, delaying the 
payment of his TFC. Mr R confirmed he was happy to proceed with the 25%. 
Mr R was told that the payment of the TFC would be in his bank account by close of 
business on 14 April 2020. And that the value that was to be used was the value at the close 
of business on 2 April 2020.
Mr R said that SWs systems accepted the incorrect bank account number hed accidentally 
given them for his annual payment. And that they did nothing to resolve this issue until he 
got in touch with them later to ask what was happening. SW initially told Mr R that the TFC 
payment hadnt been made as incorrect bank details had been provided for annual 
payments. So he thought that this error had delayed the processing of his TFC payment. SW 
told this service that on 8 April 2020 they realised that the bank details were incorrect. So on 
9 April 2020 they contacted Mr R to get the correct details.
SW said that the agent whod been given the incorrect number sent the payment details to 
the relevant team to process. They said that she wouldnt have input the number into the 
system herself. So it was only when the payment team received the incorrect instruction that 
the error was identified.
But SW have now confirmed that the delay was actually caused by Mr Rs decision to 
request a 25% disinvestment, rather than the 26% theyd suggested. They said the TFC 
would still have been paid even though incorrect payment details had been given for the 
annual payment. Mr R received the TFC payment on 17 April 2020. But SW backdated the 
process to 3 April 2020 so that Mr R received the correct price at the correct time.
As Mr Rs pension was effectively moved to the control account on 3 April 2020, there was 
no delay or loss in value. This is because it was backdated to the earliest date it couldve 
been moved after Mr Rs instruction to SW. So, from what I can see, SW have now carried 
out Mr Rs instructions exactly.
Mr R said that at the point he received his tax-free cash his fund value was higher than the 
"backdated" value. But Ive no evidence that SW did anything wrong. The evidence Ive seen 
shows that the TFC payment was processed and paid using the correct prices and dates. 
And in line with Mr Rs initial request. 
In summary, Im sorry that Mr R had to transfer his pension plan during a period of market 
volatility. And that he suffered losses as a result. But Ive found no evidence that SW 
invested his funds incorrectly. Or failed to meet their terms. And Ive no evidence that they 
caused any delays to the transfer process. Although Mr Rs TFC payment was delayed, I 
consider that SW have put him back to the position he wouldve been in had everything gone 
smoothly. 
I acknowledge that Mr R thought that his TFC payment and investment in funds of his choice 
would happen immediately as soon as he transferred to SW. I understand that he didnt want 
to be invested in the stock market at the time of the transfer. And that he felt that hed made 
that clear to SW. But Ive found no evidence that SW failed to follow his formal instructions. 
So I wont be asking them to do anything else. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman