DRN-2930672
The complaint
Miss C and Mr W complain that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) couldnt give them a 
risk-free way of paying off their mortgage.
What happened
Miss C and Mr W wanted to pay off their Buy To Let mortgage with TMW with cash from the 
sale of their main property. On 19 October 2020, TMW gave a redemption statement which 
showed the balance was £194,580.83 for repayment on 20 October 2020, with daily interest 
of £25.12. On 5 February 2021, Miss C and Mr W made a payment into the mortgage 
account of £191,784.06 - leaving a balance of £2,122.98 on 6 April 2021.
Miss C and Mr W complained. They said that they hadnt been given a risk-free way of 
paying off the mortgage. They were concerned that they couldnt verify the account details 
theyd been given and were therefore concerned about the security of the payment  and 
wondered if it was a scam. When they went to make payment using two different banks, 
TMW came up as not recognised. They paid a trial amount of £55.21 on 23 October 2020  
which was received into the mortgage account. They wanted interest to be stopped until they 
could be assured that the payment process was secure and verified. They only paid in 
£191,784.06 as they excluded the interest due up to 20 October 2020 plus daily interest up 
to February 2021  pending the outcome of their complaint.
On 8 December 2020, TMW wrote to Miss C and Mr W and said that on Mr Ws call to them 
on 15 October 2020, he was given a redemption figure and the bank details to send the 
money to. They also said he could check the bank account details on their website. When he 
called TMW on 20 October 2020, TMW advised that the bank details were on their website. 
They might not appear on the payment verification system  but the bank details were 
correct. Because the complaints team hadnt called Mr W in response to his complaint, they 
paid compensation of £50.
Miss C and Mr W brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said TMW had acted 
reasonably. On the call on 15 October 2020, the bank details for TMW had been given to Mr 
W  and told where it could be verified on their website. On the call on 20 October 2020, the 
call handler talked through where the bank details could be found on the website. She said 
also that TMW didnt always come up on the account verification system  when customers 
make an online payment.  The redemption statement sent to Miss C and Mr W also showed 
the same bank account details.
Miss C and Mr W asked that an ombudsman look into their complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see where Miss C and Mr W are coming from. Theyd heard stories about payment 
scams  and wanted to be sure that they werent going to lose a lot of money. And so, they 
were feeling nervous when trying to verify the account details theyd been given by TMW. 
They had further worries when they tried to make an online payment using two banks  and 
both times TMW came up as not recognised and gave warnings about fraud. 
Ive looked at the Redemption Statement dated 19 October 2020. This quotes clearly the 
bank account details where the money was to be sent, and how to send it. This was a letter 
from TMW and was posted to Miss C and Mr Ws address. So  it could be considered 
genuine.
Ive listened to the call that Mr W made to TMW on 15 October 2020. The call handler gave 
the redemption figure as at that day and gave the bank details of TMW. She said they could 
be checked on TMWs website. She sent a redemption letter to Miss C and Mr W  and said 
this would be received in a few days time. The bank details shown on the redemption letter 
were the same as advised to Mr W on the call.
Mr W called TMW on 20 October 2020  he had received the redemption statement. The call 
handler directed him to TMWs website to verify the bank details  she navigated him to the 
page where he could see the bank details. Ive looked at the website and the bank details 
are the same as on the redemption statement. Mr W confirmed he could see the bank details 
on the call. TMWs call handler went on to say that the payment might take one or two days 
to show in the account  and that when making an online payment, Mr Ws bank might flag 
the payment as bank account not recognised  but these were the correct details. Our 
investigator assumed that this was because TMW hadnt joined the verification scheme  Im 
not sure if thats right. Its just that sometimes payees are shown as not recognised  for a 
variety of reasons. And  I think the TMW agent was trying to be helpful to Mr W in saying 
that might happen.
Miss C and Mr W told us they made a successful test payment of £55.21 to TMW on 23 
October 2020  so that shouldve given them confidence in the information theyd been 
given. And  TMWs final response dated 8 December 2020 also quoted the same bank 
details as shown on the redemption statement, TMWs website and as advised to Mr W on 
his calls to them. 
And so  I think that TMW acted fairly. And gave Miss C and Mr W clear and consistent 
information as to where to pay the money to redeem their mortgage. They also paid 
compensation of £50 to them for an error in not calling Miss C and Mr W back in response to 
their complaint.  I noted that as at 6 April 2021  there was a mortgage balance of £2,122.98 
 which Miss C and Mr W chose not to pay off while their complaint was being looked at. I 
dont know if thats still outstanding. But  thats for Miss C and Mr W to deal with that as 
they wish. But  Im not going to ask TMW to do anymore here.
(continued)
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman