DRN-3304162
The complaint
Mr G complains about the actions taken by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) when conducting a 
review of his account. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties and so I wont go into much 
detail here. However, in summary, Mr G is unhappy HSBC took the decision to block his 
current account following some concerns about a cheque that was paid into it. He is also 
unhappy about how long the block was in place and the impact this had on his wellbeing. Mr 
G has told that he didnt have access to funds during this period so he struggled to meet his 
day-to-day living expenses and feed himself. 
HSBC have said that the block was applied to Mr Gs account due to a cheque that was paid 
into the account in January 2020. It is not disputed that this cheque was paid into Mr Gs 
account by Mr G himself. Mr G has said, at the time, he believed the cheque was in his 
name, but it later transpired that it wasnt, it was in Mr Gs brothers name. 
In January 2021, HSBC blocked Mr Gs account after this service was approached by a 
third-party bank to report that the cheque that had been paid into the account wasnt 
authorised by the holder of the account where the cheque was issued from.
Upon notification of this, HSBC blocked Mr Gs account and began an investigation into what 
had taken place. However, Mr G says he wasnt told why his account had been blocked and 
therefore wasnt given an opportunity to defend himself against any allegations of fraud 
levelled against him. It wasnt until around two months later, in March 2021, that Mr G was 
told that the reason for the block on the account was connected to the cheque he had paid 
into it in January 2020. At this point, Mr G was able to go into his local HSBC branch with 
copies of letters from the police which set out that there had been allegation of fraud but no 
further action would be taken. Mr Gs account was finally unblocked in April 2021. 
Mr G is concerned that HSBC were able to block his account for a number of months 
without telling him the reason why and he feels that this effectively denied him the 
opportunity to defend himself and get his account unblocked. He has told us that he was 
on unpaid leave from his employer during this time and had been relying on the funds in 
the account for his day to day living expenses. Hes told us that not having access to these 
funds meant he had to ration food and eat on alternative days. Mr G has told us he didnt 
have access any other funds as this was his only account and he hadnt spoken to his 
family in years.
Mr G asked us to look into the actions of HSBC and to consider whether it was reasonable 
for it have blocked his account. He also said he would like to be compensated for the trouble 
and upset caused by the length of time the block was in place. 
HSBC said it hadnt done anything wrong in placing the block on Mr Gs account whilst it 
completed an investigation into the allegedly fraudulent cheque and, once satisfied that no 
further action was necessary, the block was immediately reviewed. 
Mr G disagreed. He said there was no evidence that he had committed fraud and so the 
block shouldnt have been placed on his account at all. But even if this were strictly 
necessary, HSBC shouldve told him about the allegations against him so he could have 
provided his evidence sooner and the block could have been removed much quicker than it 
was. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think that HSBC had done 
anything wrong in placing a block on Mr Gs account once an allegation of fraud had been 
made against the account. He felt that HSBC had an obligation to take any allegations of 
fraud seriously and conduct a thorough investigation. However, on this occasion, he felt that 
the investigation had taken too long and it wasnt clear why. Our investigator pointed out that 
the situation couldve been discussed with Mr G much sooner than it was and he felt that if it 
had, the block wouldve been removed much sooner than it eventually was and Mr G 
wouldve been able to access his funds again. For the reasons above, our investigator 
recommended that HSBC pay Mr G compensation amounting to £700.
HSBC did not agree with our investigators recommendations. It said it had placed a block on 
Mr Gs account following an allegation of fraud surrounding a cheque that was paid into the 
account and it had contacted the bank that had issued to the cheque to see if it wished to 
request a return of the funds. HSBC said it did not receive a response but if it had allowed 
the funds to be removed from the account and then a claim had been raised for their 
retrieval, it ultimately wouldve been held liable for them. And so, whilst it acknowledged that 
it could have moved things along faster than it did, it didnt think this warranted 
compensation amounting to £700. It also stressed that the cheque should not have been 
paid into Mr Gs account at all, it wasnt in his name, but it had allowed the funds to remain in 
his account regardless and it wanted this to be taken into consideration. In light of the above, 
HSBC believed a reasonable offer amounted to £350.
Our Investigator considered HSBCs additional points and agreed that its offer of £350 was 
fair and reasonable. 
Mr G did not agree. He said it wasnt possible for the cheque-issuing bank to have gathered 
any documentary evidence that he had committed fraud and so he questioned what 
evidence, if any, it had been able to provide to HSBC to warrant a block being placed on his 
account at all. Mr G didnt think that HSBC held any evidence against him and the block on 
his account had been placed there as he had been presumed guilty until proven innocent. 
Mr G felt HSBC had sought to gather evidence against him without telling him what the 
allegations were. Mr G believes that if he hadnt proactively provided the letters he had 
received from the police, the block wouldve remained indefinitely.
As an agreement has not been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commentedon any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right
outcome. 
Whether Mr G is ultimately entitled to the funds that were paid into his account does not fall 
within the scope of this decision - this is a private civil matter. Neither is it possible for me to 
inform Mr G what evidence may or may not have been gathered to substantiate the 
allegation of fraud by the cheque-issuing bank - over and above what has already been 
discussed. Mr G is not a customer of this bank and this is not a complaint about them. This 
complaint is limited to the actions taken by HSBC in the blocking of Mr Gs account and how 
long his access was limited to it and whether this was reasonable. 
Having reviewed all the information available to me, Im not persuaded that HSBC have 
done anything wrong or acted unfairly in blocking Mr Gs account. But I also agree with our 
investigator that HSBC hasnt been able to justify why the review of the account took so 
long, or why it wasnt more open in its communications with Mr G. 
The block on the account
The block was applied to Mr Gs account by HSBC after it received notification from our 
service. Our service had been told that a cheque had been paid into Mr Gs HSBC current 
account which wasnt authorised by the account holder of the account the cheque was 
issued from. This is the information HSBC were told at the time. HSBC upon receiving 
notification of potential fraud, had an obligation to act on this report. HSBC needs to take 
any claims of fraud seriously  ringfencing the funds in the account should they be claimed 
back. If HSBC had allowed any funds to leave the account whilst the investigation was 
ongoing, HSBC could later become liable for them. 
This is why HSBC took the decision to block Mr Gs account and why it needed to act prior to 
gathering further evidence. And so, I dont agree that HSBC presumed Mr Gs guilt whilst it 
sought to gather evidence against him. It was simply fulfilling its obligations to protect the 
funds should they successfully be claimed back. 
Mr G has pointed out that had HSBC discussed the circumstances surrounding the 
cheque with him, he wouldve been able to provide the letters he had been provided with 
by the police to evidence that the allegation of fraud was not being pursued further. Hes 
told us that he had these letters available to him at the time and wouldve been able to 
provide them straightaway had he been asked - and the matter couldve been resolved.
Ultimately, HSBC did reach the conclusion that this wasnt a case of fraud. When Mr G 
provided the letters, the account was unblocked. And so, the only thing left for me to 
consider is why HSBC didnt discuss the cheque with Mr G sooner than it did and why the 
block on the account was in place for so long. 
After the block was placed on the account, HSBC would need to investigate the fraud 
claim to establish its authenticity. As part of this investigation, HSBC would need to 
discuss the claim with the cheque-issuing bank and this would inevitably take some time. 
It also needed to ring-fence the funds in the account during this period should they be 
claimed back.
During this time there would only be limited information that HSBC could provide Mr G 
about the block in order to not compromise the investigation. However, I agree with our 
investigator that this doesnt mean it couldnt tell him anything at all. It did need to discuss 
the circumstances surrounding the claim with him so he could provide his side of the story, 
and potentially allow for the account to be unblocked. I can see HSBC did do this eventually, but this was on 25 March 2021. By this point Mr G 
had been consistently questioning HSBC as to what was happening with his account. And 
so based on the evidence Ive seen, it was a couple of months before HSBC started to 
discuss the block on Mr Gs account with him - and not from the outset of the investigation.  
I understand that HSBC was waiting to hear from the cheque-issuing bank to see if the 
remaining cheque funds were to be reclaimed. I dont agree with Mr G that it was whilst it 
looked for evidence to prove him guilty. It seems to me that HSBCs concerns were 
ultimately to protect the funds in the account should it later become liable for them. And I 
understand its concern. But I do feel that the time taken here was excessive. No claim 
had been forthcoming and HSBC had not taken steps to communicate with Mr G about 
the account which he required access to in order to pay for his day to day living expenses. 
Overall, I think three months is excessive for a review of a disputed cheque. Mr G 
shouldve had been spoken to sooner and the block removed from his account sooner 
than it eventually was.
Furthermore, the notes I have from HSBC indicate that Mr G was only spoken to, or 
communicated with, once in January and once in March throughout this entire process. He 
also wasnt told when the block had been removed from his account. Mr G wasnt told this 
until he got in touch with HSBC in April.
I dont think this is a reasonable level of communication for someone who has had their 
account inhibited and access to their funds restricted. HSBC could have been more pro-
active in its communications with Mr G from the outset rather than waiting for Mr G to 
approach the bank. Had this been done, Mr G wouldve been somewhat aware of the 
reasons for the block and been provided the opportunity to defend the claim much sooner 
than he ultimately was.
Impact of the review
Mr G has explained to this service that he has faced significant financial constrictions due to 
the restrictions being placed on his account for so long which left him with only limited 
resources. He was using the funds in this account to tide him over whilst he was unable to 
work during the Covid-19 pandemic. However, I also have to weigh this against the fact that 
HSBC have not removed the remaining funds associated with the cheque from his account. 
Whilst I am aware that Mr G feels these funds are rightly his, and they may well be, the fact 
remains that Mr G shouldnt have received this money. HSBC should not have cashed the 
cheque as it was not in his name. It should not have been processed and cashed to his 
account. So, HSBC wouldve been within their rights to remove the funds from the account. 
But they have chosen not to.  
I also have to acknowledge that Mr G wouldve experienced some stress and inconvenience 
anyway, whilst a review of his account was being carried out. As Ive said, I dont think the 
block being placed on the account was unreasonable, only the length of time it was in place 
and HSBCs lack of communication with Mr G. Which leads me to believe that only some of 
the negative impacts on Mr G couldve been avoided
Having carefully considered all of the above, Im satisfied that HSBCs offer of £350 is a fair 
and reasonable amount to compensate Mr G for the trouble and upset caused to him by the 
block being placed on his account for longer than it should have been. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
HSBC Bank UK Plc should now take the necessary steps to pay Mr G the £350 in 
compensation it has offered  if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022. 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman