DRN-3567808
The complaint
The estate of Mr T complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) wont refund 
the money he lost when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all 
again here. Instead, Ill set out the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision:
In 2019, Mr T started trading through a company Ill refer to as X. He made the 
following payments to them from his Tesco credit card, via genuine cryptocurrency 
companies with whom X directed him to set up accounts with:
Date Merchant Amount
29 May 2019 L £198.71
30 May 2019 J £265.21
4 June 2019 J £3,107.12
7 June 2019 J £3,120.90
7 June 2019 J £3,120.90
26 July 2019 E £8,367.51
26 July 2019 E £929.72
Total £19,110.07
Shortly after, Mr T realised it was a scam and reported this to Tesco. Mrs T says they 
were struggling to get hold of X  who they believed had taken out fraudulent loans in 
their name. Tesco said there were no chargeback rights under the rules of the card-
scheme provider, Mastercard, for any trading transactions. And it couldnt recall any 
payments; theyd already gone through. Unhappy with this response, Mr T referred 
the matter to our service. Its now being brought by his estate.
The investigator agreed that a chargeback claim wouldnt have succeeded. But they 
thought Tesco ought to have prevented some of the transactions, so recommended 
that it should refund these. 
In early June 2022, I issued my provisional decision explaining why I was minded to 
uphold the complaint. I invited both parties to submit any further comments and 
evidence. The deadline for this has now passed. Tesco hasnt responded. And the 
estate of Mrs T has confirmed they have nothing to add. So Im proceeding with my 
consideration of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not received anything further, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint:
Its not in dispute that Mr T fell victim to a scam by X. But nor is it in dispute that he 
authorised these payments. In line with the Payment Services Regulations and 
general banking terms, Tesco has a duty to execute authorised payment instructions 
without undue delay. So even though Mr T was duped into making the payments, the 
starting position is that he's liable.
That said, there are some situations where we believe that banks and other payment 
services providerstaking into account relevant rules, codes and best practice 
ought to have identified a potential fraud risk, so should have looked at the wider 
circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment. If they failed 
to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent loss for their consumer, it may be fair to 
hold them liable.
Initially, I dont think Tesco had cause for concern. But by the time of the second 
payment on 7 June 2019, I think it ought to have identified, and acted on, a possible 
fraud risk. Thats because a pattern of uncharacteristic and suspicious account activity 
was emerging. Mr T had transferred almost £10,000 to a new, international payee in 
around a week  and more than £6,000 in one day. This was out of keeping with how 
he generally used his card. Prior to the scam, it seems he only used it for the 
occasional, low-level purchase.
Ive therefore considered what would have happened if Tesco had responded 
proportionately to the fraud risk. Im not persuaded it was enough to simply check that 
Mr T had authorised the payment, or get him to confirm that he wasnt victim to a scam 
or being coerced (as it did when it called him about the payment he went on to make to 
E). A key feature of these scams is that the consumer is tricked into making the 
payment, thinking its a legitimate investment. Given the level of industry knowledge 
about the prevalence and nature of these scams, I would have expected Tesco to 
probe Mr T further.
Another common feature of these scams is that consumers are directed to move 
money to a cryptocurrency account in their own name before transferring it onto the 
scammers. Tesco ought to have known to ask about how Mr T came to make these 
payments, to assess whether all was well. If asked reasonable questions, I think Mr T 
would have explained that he was trading with X, who hed found online promising high 
returns and whod prompted him to set up the intermediary accounts. And that they 
also instructed him to download remote access software so they could control the 
trading. As their name made clear, they were also purporting to offer forex trading  
yet werent properly regulated. Tesco ought to have realised, and warned Mr T, that it 
sounded like a scam. If it had done so, speaking from a position of expertise, Ive no 
reason to doubt that Mr T would have heeded the warning and would therefore have 
stopped making these payments.
But for Tescos failure to respond appropriately, it would have been on actual notice 
that Mr T was going to suffer financial harm from fraud. The losses ought to have been 
within the contemplation of, and foreseeable to, Tesco. So its fair to hold it liable for 
this.Ive also considered if Mr T was partly to blame. Initially, without the same level of 
knowledge as the bank about these scams, I consider it reasonable that he was 
persuaded by the sophistication of Xs scam. They had a professional-looking website. 
Mr T had a lot of contact with them, and was convinced by the trading platform which 
appeared to show how his money was being invested. But by the time of the payments 
in late July 2019, I think he ought to have realised something might be wrong. These 
were made after he and Mrs T found out about the loans taken out fraudulently in their 
name, which they thought were connected to the scam. I also understand that, by this 
time, Mr T was struggling to make contact with X. I therefore think he ought to bear 
some responsibility for the payments he made in July 2019, and that his compensation 
for these should be reduced accordingly. In the circumstances, I find 50% to be a fair 
reduction.
I dont think Tesco could have done more to recover Mr Ts loss. The chargeback 
scheme offers very limited options for recovering money paid to trading accounts. But 
the wider point is that the funds didnt go directly to the scammers. They first went 
through legitimate companies, who provided the service expected of them (i.e. 
transferring the funds/uploading them to the wallet). So there werent any reasonable 
grounds for a chargeback claim to succeed against them  as such claims can only 
consider breaches/misrepresentations etc. against the merchants Mr T paid directly. 
The same is true of claims made under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, 
meaning Tesco isnt liable on this basis either.
Putting things right
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should refund the estate of Mr T £7,769.52, consisting of the 
second payment of £3,120.90 which Mr T made on 7 June 2019, plus half of the two 
payments (of £8,367.51 and £929.72 respectively) made on 26 July 2019. It should also 
rework the account so that any interest and charges caused by the payments (including the 
foreign exchange fees, cash transaction fees and the interest accrued) are refunded. And it 
should also pay 8% simple interest on any sums repaid towards the credit card balance 
arising from those payments, from the date they were repaid to the date of settlement (less 
any tax properly deductible).
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman