DRN-3626742
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice given by KBFS Financial Limited to transfer the benefits he 
held in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension. The BSPS was a 
defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme. He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr T is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr T.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ts employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In June 2017, Mr Ts employer provided him with a summary of the transfer value of his 
scheme benefits. This said his benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
£367,503.19.
KBFS says Mr T met with another financial adviser (which Ill refer to as Firm A) in July 
2017. As he was interested in transferring his benefits from the BSPS a specialist pension 
adviser was required. As Firm A didnt hold the relevant permissions to provide advice, it put 
Mr T in touch with KBFS in August 2017. 
KBFS has provided a copy of information it recorded about Mr Ts circumstances. This 
appears to be a combination of information gathered by Firm A and details KBFS gathered 
during a telephone call with Mr T. KBFS noted Mr T was 47, in good health, married with one 
child. Mr Ts sons age wasnt recorded, but the recommendation letter later noted he was 
still financially dependent.
KBFS recorded that Mr T was employed full time. He and Mrs T owned their own home but 
had a mortgage with an outstanding balance of approximately £38,000. This was noted as 
being due to finish when Mr T reached age 55. It also recorded that Mr T had a car loan, to 
which he was paying £220 per month, that had approximately two years left to run. It said 
Mr T had approximately £9,000 in savings and that his monthly income exceeded his 
outgoings and provided disposable income of around £600 per month.  
In addition to his BSPS pension, Mr T was also a member of his employers new defined 
contribution pension scheme. But KBFS doesnt appear to have gathered any information 
about how much his benefits were valued at or what contributions Mr T and his employer 
was making.
KBFS said Mr T had lost faith in his employer and felt he and his colleagues had been 
consistently lied to. So, he wanted control over his pension and wanted to transfer at that 
time  despite not intending to retire or being able to take pension benefits for several years 
 because of this mistrust. KBFS said Mr T explained he was thinking of making a change to 
his employment at age 55, as he felt working beyond that point in his current role might 
impact his health. He was likely to move to a part time role, potentially with a different 
employer, and begin drawing from his pension. His desired income in retirement was 
recorded as £2,000 per month. KBFS says Mr T also wanted the option of taking his pension 
at age 55 without his benefits being reduced. He didnt want to move to the PPF as he 
wouldnt have flexibility and his pension would be reduced and he didnt want to just leave a 
50% pension to his wife, he wanted the option of leaving the entire fund. KBFS says Mr T 
told it hed already spoken to six previous advisers and the risks of transferring had been 
fully explained to him. It also says Mr T indicated hed been ready to transfer based on the 
advice of another firm but had chosen to continue speaking to other advisers in the hope of 
finding a better deal.
KBFS also carried out an assessment of Mr Ts attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
balanced. 
KBFS arranged for a transfer value analysis (TVAS) to be carried out on 16 August 2017. 
The introduction within the report explains that its purpose was to give an indication of the 
likelihood of being able to match or exceed the benefits provided by your existing
scheme with a transfer to an alternative plan. The report noted it was comparing the existing 
benefits with those that could be purchased by transferring to a specific provider  which 
happened to be the provider that KBFS ultimately recommended to Mr T. 
The TVAS included calculations of the critical yield  the growth rate required of a new 
pension to allow Mr T to purchase equivalent benefits to those he was due under the BSPS. 
This was calculated as being 6.63% if Mr T retired at age 65. This appears to have been 
based on him not taking tax-free cash when drawing his pension. The report also confirmed 
that to purchase an annuity providing benefits equal to that Mr T was entitled to under the 
BSPS, hed need a fund value of £964,905.06.
Critical yield figures were also calculated for the growth that would be required to match the 
benefits Mr T would be due under the PPF at age 65. These were noted as being 3.53% if 
Mr T took a full pension or 3.15% if he took a reduced pension and tax-free cash.
KBFS wrote to Mr T on 21 August 2017. This letter began by saying that Mr T had told KBFS 
to limit its advice to his BSPS pension. And so, KBFS had only gathered information 
necessary to be able to advise on that, and its recommendations may have been different if 
it had been asked to undertake a full review. The letter briefly summarised some of the key 
information from the TVAS. It said that under the BSPS Mr T would be entitled to an annual 
pension of £22,881 from age 65. And under the PPF he would be entitled to £18,916.17 per 
year from age 65. It also included the critical yield figures  although did not refer to them as 
critical yields or provide any in depth explanation of these. And it briefly summarised the 
potential risks involved with a transfer and included a graph and some figures related to 
potential performance of a new pension. The letter then asked Mr T to complete a section 
confirming he understood its content and asked him to confirm why he wished to transfer.
All of the forms to enable Mr T to transfer appear to have been sent to him on 23 August 
2017  including the client agreement, personal pension illustration and risk outline. KBFS 
says that Firm A then met with Mr T to talk him through these documents. KBFS says Mr T 
was reminded of the risks involved but still wanted to proceed. 
Ive seen copies of application forms to enable the transfer that were signed on 29 August 
2017  the date KBFS says Mr T met with Firm A. And I can see that KBFS signed a declaration that it had provided Mr T with pension transfer advice on 31 August 2017.
On 12 September 2017, KBFS sent Mr T a written summary of its advice. This said it 
confirmed the recommendations made to Mr T as part of his recent financial planning review. 
KBFS said Mr Ts objectives were to protect the full value of the fund in the event of his 
death, greater flexibility in how benefits could be taken so he could retire at 55 and control 
over the funds as he didnt want to enter the PPF and didnt trust his employer. It recapped 
the critical yield and how much Mr T would need to buy an annuity to match his BSPS 
benefits. And said if he were intending to buy an annuity it wouldnt recommend transferring. 
But it said Mr T wasnt intending to buy an annuity. And even though the critical yield to 
match the BSPS benefits may not have been achievable, KBFS thought transferring to a 
personal pension was suitable for Mr T as it best allowed him to meet his goals. So, it 
recommended he transfer, as well as a pension provider and product that it felt best met 
Mr Ts attitude to risk.
I understand the transfer went ahead in line with the recommendation in January 2018.
Mr T complained to KBFS in 2021. He said the advice was unsuitable and he thought a 
transfer should not have been recommended because the personal pension was highly 
unlikely to match the guaranteed benefits that were given up.
KBFS didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said Mr T had already obtained a transfer value 
before contacting it. And KBFS says he said hed already spoken to several financial 
advisers about transferring before speaking to it and was aware of the risks involved. KBFS 
said Mr T had lost faith in his employer and its ability to manage his pension. It says he didnt 
want to transfer to the PPF or the new BSPS2 scheme, which at the time was not confirmed, 
because he wanted to retire at age 55 and take his benefits flexibly. It says Mr T felt this 
wouldnt have been possible under either of the alternatives and the income hed have been 
due wouldve been reduced due to early retirement and wouldnt have been enough to meet 
his stated need of £2,000 per month. KBFS also said Mr T was keen to take advantage of 
the good transfer value being offered and was also unhappy at the prospect of the pension 
dying with he and his wife and wanted to be able to leave a legacy for his son. So, it felt the 
advice to transfer was appropriate.
Mr T referred his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators considered the 
complaint and thought it should be upheld and that KBFS should pay compensation in line 
with the regulators redress methodology for unsuitable DB transfer advice as well as £300 
for the distress caused. In summary, she felt, Mr T didnt have much capacity for loss and 
that he was inexperienced, so was more cautious than KBFS suggested. And, even if he 
went into the discussion thinking transferring was a good idea, it was KBFSs role to advise 
him, rather than put in place what he mightve believed he wanted. She didnt think, based 
on how long Mr T had until he might retire, that a decision needed to be made at that time to 
provide flexibility in retirement. She also didnt think transferring to provide alternate death 
benefits was appropriate. And she felt there was limited scope for the new pension to 
improve his retirement benefits. KBFS disagreed. It said that the critical yield referred to by the Investigator was to match the 
benefits due under the BSPS. But the BSPS was not going to exist. So, the more relevant 
comparison wouldve been to the critical yield for matching the benefits available through the 
PPF  which it felt was achievable. It disagreed that Mr T was more cautious than had been 
recorded. And KBFS maintained that it felt that the advice was suitable based on the 
information available to it at the time and Mr Ts objective of wanting control over his pension 
at a time of significant uncertainty. It said that, while information about the BSPS2 had been 
published at the time of the advice, it was not guaranteed that this would go ahead. So, it felt 
the Investigators opinion was based on hindsight. And the only certainty was that the BSPS 
would transfer to the PPF and Mr T would then not have the option of transferring out. KBFS 
also said that, given that Mr T had spoken to a number of other advisers before KBFS, 
including at least one that had recommended he transfer, even if it had advised him against 
transferring he would likely still have gone ahead via another business. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements and the general advice process followed
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of KBFS's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.I have concerns about the advice process followed here in general. I understand Firm A put 
Mr T in touch with KBFS as it couldnt provide the advice Mr T required. The information 
KBFS has provided suggests its last conversation with Mr T was on 22 August 2017. And 
the next day it sent him the relevant forms to complete in order to proceed with the transfer. 
But a written explanation of its advice, by way of a suitability report, wasnt provided to Mr T 
until 12 September 2017. So, Mr T hadnt been given a written summary of the advice, to 
read and consider independently, before being asked to complete the relevant application 
forms. And I dont think any of the written communication Ive seen prior to the suitability 
report, were enough to say that he wouldve been in an informed position when proceeding.
I also note that KBFS says that Firm A met with Mr T again on 29 August 2017. And that it 
talked him through the relevant application forms and reiterated the risks involved. But again, 
I understand Firm A wasnt authorised to provide pension transfer advice  which was why 
KBFS was involved. Im not sure it was therefore appropriate for Firm A to be the party 
talking Mr T through the application. KBFS shouldve been the party doing this as part of the 
advice process, given it was responsible for the advice. And Id argue that this shouldnt 
have been done until a suitability report had been provided.
So overall, Im not satisfied that the general process followed here was appropriate or that it 
was designed to ensure that Mr T made a fully informed decision before committing to an 
irreversible pension transfer.
That notwithstanding, I also dont think a transfer was right for Mr T. The regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a 
transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, KBFS should have only considered a 
transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ts best interests. And 
having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
KBFS carried out a TVAS report (as required by the regulator). And it made reference to the 
information and comparison within the report when giving advice. But I think there are issues 
with the TVAS that call into question how useful it was as a comparison.
The majority of the comparison was based on Mr Ts existing scheme benefits via the BSPS. 
This included the section showing how much Mr Ts pension fund would need to grow by 
each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield) and the 
amount that would be needed to purchase an annuity providing the same benefits. But Mr T 
didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS as it was.
Indeed, this is something KBFS has said in response to our Investigators opinion when 
saying the critical yield of 6.63% was not a relevant comparison. But Id argue that is 
something that shouldve been also explained to Mr T as part of the advice process. And I 
cant see that it was.
The TVAS did include a comparison to the PPF. But there was no analysis of the BSPS2. 
KBFS has argued that the details of the BSPS2 were unknown, and it was not certain that it 
would be going ahead. However, on 11 August 2017, the BSPS2 was formally announced  
five days before the TVAS was completed. And I think it wouldve been reasonable for KBFS 
to await details of this scheme before completing its analysis and giving a recommendation. 
By not doing so, I think KBFS has assessed the suitability of the transfer on information it 
knew was incomplete. Which I dont think was fair to Mr T or would allow him to make an 
informed decision. And I also dont think giving advice on what was in Mr Ts best interests 
was reasonable when KBFS had failed to take this into account.KBFS has made mention of Mr T, like many people in his situation, being told they needed to 
make a choice. But I understand Time to Choose letters were not issued until October 
2017. And on 25 August 2017, before KBFS provided written advice here, an important 
update was issued in respect of BSPS transfer values  saying that the expected payment 
into the BSPS by Mr Ts employer, as part of its agreement with the pension regulator, was 
likely to result in an improvement to transfer values. And for those with unexpired transfer 
values, as in Mr Ts case, updated valuations would be issued in October 2017, which would 
be guaranteed until at least December 2017. The payment referred to into the BSPS was 
made and confirmed via announcement on 11 September 2017  again before the written 
recommendation was issued  which reaffirmed that revised transfer values would become 
available. 
So, I dont think Mr T was in a position where he could not wait for details of the BSPS2 or 
had to make an immediate decision. I acknowledge there was uncertainty and Mr T mayve 
been understandably anxious. But that is why it was even more important that KBFS give 
him a balanced assessment and suitable advice, based on all of the information. So, I think it 
wouldve been appropriate for KBFS to await information relating to the BSPS2 before 
proceeding, given the announcements and updates prior to the advice and what was known 
at the time. 
Another issue with the TVAS report is that all comparisons were based on Mr T retiring at 
age 65. But KBFS has said that Mr T intended to retire at age 55  and indeed has relied on 
this as a reason for the advice being suitable. I think it should therefore have also included 
comparisons and critical yields to illustrate the value of the benefits Mr T wouldve been due 
at age 55. The actuarial reductions for early retirement under the PPF are typically more 
favourable than a lot of DB schemes. So, this wouldve been important information for Mr T 
to consider. And without such comparisons again I dont think Mr T was in a position where 
he could make an informed decision. 
KBFS has said that Mr T was not willing to accept a reduction in his retirement benefits, 
which hed have incurred if retiring early under the DB scheme. But KBFS ought to have 
rationally addressed those concerns and a meaningful comparison of what Mr T wouldve 
been entitled to under the PPF and the BSPS2 if retiring early wouldve been an appropriate 
way to begin doing this. 
Notwithstanding these issues, I have considered the information within the TVAS when 
looking at whether the transfer was in Mr Ts interests from a financial viability perspective.  
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
Mr T was 47 at the time of the advice. Again, it was noted that he wanted to retire at age 55 
but the comparison caried out was based on taking benefits at age 65.
The critical yield required to match Mr Ts benefits in the BSPS at age 65 was 6.63%. This 
appears to have been based on him taking a full pension. No separate figure was given for 
taking tax-free cash and a reduced pension. The critical yield to match the benefits available 
through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 3.53% per year if Mr T took a full pension and 
3.15% per year if he took TFC and a reduced pension. The BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits as the BSPS, but the annual 
increases wouldve been lower. The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve 
likely decreased the critical yields in comparison to the BSPS. But I still think they wouldve 
likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits, particularly at age 65. So, the 
critical yield in relation to taking a full pension at age 65 through the BSPS2 was likely to be 
between 6.63% and 3.53%. And in my view was likely to be closer to 6.63%.
The discount rate at the time was 4.4% per year for 17 years to retirement  the case if Mr T 
retired at 65. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 
8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ts 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. KBFS recorded that Mr T had a balanced 
attitude to risk. Our Investigator thought Mr Ts attitude was more likely to be cautious given 
the information from the time. Based on the answers to the attitude to risk questionnaire and 
the wider circumstances  Mr Ts apparent desire to transfer in order to safeguard these 
pension benefits because of the mistrust of his employer and ongoing uncertainty and the 
shorter term to retirement if he did intend to retire at age 55  Im inclined to agree that he 
was more likely to be more cautious when it came to risk. But even if I agree that he had a 
balanced approach to risk, I dont think it makes a significant difference here.
There would be little point in Mr T giving up the guarantees available to him through a DB 
scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. Based on 
the information Ive mentioned, I think on balance Mr T was likely to receive benefits of a 
lower value than those available through BSPS2 at 65 as a result of transferring and 
investing in line with his attitude to risk. The information suggests he was more likely to 
potentially be able to match the benefits hed receive through the PPF, outside of the 
scheme. But any improvements appeared unlikely to be substantial, were not guaranteed 
and were subject to investment and longevity risk that werent present in relation to the 
guaranteed benefits available. And I dont think I can reasonably say improvements were 
more likely than not. 
Again, KBFS hasnt evidenced any meaningful comparison of the benefits Mr T wouldve 
been due at age 55 or a cashflow analysis based on taking benefits flexibly at 55. But in my 
experience, critical yields tend to be higher for shorter terms to retirement, as the pension 
fund will have less time to grow in value, even accounting for the actuarial reduction in 
starting pension benefits. And the discount rate for 7 full years to retirement, as wouldve 
been the case if Mr T were retiring at age 55, was lower, at 3.4%. So, on balance I think it is 
also likely that Mr T wouldve received benefits of a lower overall value by transferring and 
investing in line with his attitude to risk if he retired at 55.
So, considering the information Ive seen it doesnt appear that a transfer, on the basis of 
financial viability, was in Mr Ts best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only 
consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean 
a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
KBFS said Mr T wanted to retire at age 55 and take an income of £2,000 per month in 
retirement. And Mr T has acknowledged that his job role at the time of the advice, which was 
very physically demanding in nature, was not something that he wanted to continue doing 
long term, if possible. But he has said his plans, at the time of taking advice were very much 
uncertain. He says he wasnt intending to give up work altogether at age 55  something 
which the fact find appears to support. And he said he also hadnt made a decision to 
change employer.I dont doubt Mr T wouldve been interested in retiring early if possible  I think most 
consumers would be when asked. But I think he was realistic about this and it appears he 
was aware he would probably need to continue to work beyond that age, albeit he hoped to 
do so on a part time basis. So, I dont think he had an intention to solely rely on his pension 
benefits from age 55, to meet his income needs. And in any event, he was 47 at the time 
KBFS advised him to transfer  over 7 years from making a decision about this. I dont think 
his plans were finalised and couldve been subject to change, just as his circumstances and 
needs may have altered. So, I dont think he needed to transfer at the time.
KBFS has said if Mr T remained with the BSPS and moved with it to the PPF hed have lost 
the option of transferring at a later date. And it says there was no certainty that the BSPS2 
would become a reality and our suggestion otherwise was based on hindsight. But I dont 
agree and think KBFS has overstated the chance of the BSPS2 not happening. 
The restructuring of the BSPS had been ongoing for a significant amount of time by the time 
Mr T took advice. And on 11 August 2017, the pensions regulator had approved an 
arrangement that included the BSPS2 being established subject to certain conditions being 
met. Part of the agreement made with the pensions regulator was that a payment into the 
BSPS would be made by Mr Ts employer. And that payment, of £550 million, was made on 
11 September 2017, before written advice was issued to Mr T here. I think this indicated a 
commitment on the part of Mr Ts employer to the arrangement it had agreed with the 
regulator, including the BSPS2. 
KBFS could also have waited for further updates before providing advice. When the lump 
sum payment into the BSPS was made, an update was provided stating amended transfer 
values would be forthcoming and that these would be valid for at least two further months. 
KBFS couldve awaited this before advising, and I think it wouldve been appropriate to do so 
particularly given all indications had been that the lump sum payment was likely to improve 
transfer values, so waiting wouldve been in Mr Ts interests. These updated values when 
provided, were accompanied by the time to choose pack. And this gave further details of 
the BSPS2 and that joining it was one of the options open to BSPS members. So, by that 
time I think there was a confidence that the BSPS2 would go ahead, the details of it were 
broadly known and that joining this and later considering a transfer if appropriate was an 
option for Mr T.  
Mr T would also have been able to take pension benefits under the BSPS2 or the PPF from 
age 55. So, he didnt need to transfer in order to begin accessing a pension income from 55.
KBFS says Mr T was unwilling to accept a reduction to the benefits hed receive at age 55 
compared to what hed be entitled to at 65. But even under the existing BSPS, he wasnt 
entitled to the same benefits at 55 that he wouldve been due at 65. It is true that if Mr T 
drew his benefits at age 55 under either the PPF or the BSPS2 the amount he could take 
would be subject to an actuarial reduction. But an actuarial reduction is intended to reflect 
the pension benefits being paid for longer. The starting monetary amount when compared 
with the full pension payable from age 65  the normal scheme retirement age  wouldve 
been less. But by retiring at age 55 Mr T wouldve been receiving his pension for 10 years 
longer. It was a trade-off, rather than a penalty. But I dont think, based on the information 
Ive seen, that KBFS gave an appropriately balanced explanation of this. And if it had, I think 
Mr T wouldve been more willing to accept it.I also dont think that Mr T needed to transfer to meet his income needs in retirement. KBFS 
didnt record a great deal of information about the benefits Mr T would be entitled to under 
the DB scheme. But the TVAS estimated the BSPS would pay an annual income of £22,881 
from age 65 and the PPF would pay £18,916.17 from that point. The income from the 
BSPS2 was likely to have been between the two. These annual amounts on their own would 
not have met Mr Ts stated income need of £2,000 per month. 
And if Mr T began drawing benefits from age 55, the starting pensions wouldve been 
significantly lower under both the PPF and the BSPS2. It isnt clear by how much, as this 
information was omitted from the TVAS. But there was a one-page document in KBFS file 
which suggested the BSPS would pay an estimated £12,482.33 from age 55. Approximately 
half of what Mr T expected to need. And itd be reasonable to assume the benefits offered by 
the BSPS2 and the PPF would be at best around this level from age 55. So, on their own, 
would not have met Mr Ts income needs.
But the income from the PPF or the BSPS2 wouldve been guaranteed for life. And wouldve 
continued to escalate while in payment. Providing Mr T with certainty. And these were 
unlikely to have been Mr Ts only source of income from age 55.
As Ive mentioned, Mr T indicated he intended to continue to work at least part time from age 
55. The income he received from the part time work wouldve supplemented the income 
provided by either the BSPS2 or the PPF.
The fact find also indicated that Mr T had £9,000 in savings and disposable income each 
month of around £600. So, it appears he couldve increased his savings in the years until he 
age 55, giving him a further pot to potentially use flexibly.
Mr T was also a member of his employers new defined contribution scheme. And it appears 
hed have likely continued to contribute to this until at least age 55, if not beyond in the event 
he changed role but remained with the same employer. Which wouldve provided him some 
additional retirement provisions that couldve been used flexibly to supplement his income 
from the DB scheme if necessary. KBFS failed to gather any meaningful details of this 
pension or the level of contributions being made. But typically, in other cases Ive seen, the 
combined contributions to this scheme from Mr Ts employer and other customers have 
started at around 16% of salary. Assuming the same level of contributions were made into 
Mr Ts pension, based on his recorded salary, and before even accounting for increases in 
salary, investment growth or Mr T increasing his contributions, by age 55 this fund would 
likely have been worth in excess of £40,000. And again, couldve been used flexibly to 
supplement income from the DB scheme.
And when Mr T reached state retirement age, his and Mrs Ts state pensions, in conjunction 
with the guaranteed pension provided by the BSPS2 or the PPF wouldve continued to meet 
his income needs.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think transferring to achieve flexibility was something 
that Mr T needed at the time of the advice. Given the time until he was intending to retire, I 
dont think Mr Ts plans or needs were known and certainly were not finalised. Nor do I think 
transferring was the only option for meeting the objectives hed indicated he was considering 
at the time.  And I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr T to give up his 
guaranteed benefits when he did. If Mr T later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme I 
understand that this wouldve been allowed under BSPS2. And he couldve done so closer to 
retirement.   Death benefits
KBFS say Mr T didnt like the idea of Mrs T only receiving a 50% pension in the event of his 
death and the fund dying with he and Mrs T and not leaving a legacy for his son. Id note that 
although KBFS has argued a legacy for Mr Ts son was one of his objectives, this doesnt 
appear to have been talked about at the time of the advice and seems to have only been 
mentioned in response to the complaint. Rather it was improving death benefits for Mrs T 
that seems to have been noted as a motivation for transferring at the time of the advice.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr T. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr T might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr T about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think KBFS explored to what extent 
Mr T was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. The 
spouses pension was guaranteed  it was not dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
The CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum. But the 
sum remaining on death following a transfer, as well as being dependent on investment 
performance, wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr T drew in his lifetime. Again, 
the apparent intention, on which KBFS based its advice, was for Mr T to draw from the 
pension benefits from age 55 and use this to largely support his income needs of £2,000 per 
month until this could be scaled back when he started receiving the state pension. Based on 
this, it appears likely the fund wouldve been significantly depleted by the time Mr T reached 
his average life expectancy. So, the legacy wouldnt have been the same as the CETV and 
appears likely to have been significantly less. In any event, KBFS should not have 
encouraged Mr T to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
KBFS says Mr T declined to consider life insurance as an alternative. And there is a whole-
of-life insurance quotation on file. But this is dated January 2018, several months after the 
advice was given. So, it isnt clear if this was genuinely explored at the time of the advice. In 
any event though, even if Mr T did decline to consider life insurance, that doesnt mean I 
think it was in his best interests to transfer his pension to alter the death benefit provision  
for the reasons Ive explained.
Control and concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr Ts desire for direct control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr T was 
not, based on the information Ive seen, an experienced investor and I cannot see that he 
had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I 
dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr T  it was simply a consequence of 
transferring away from the BSPS.I think this objective was more linked to the uncertainty about the BSPS. Its clear that Mr T, 
like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His employer had been 
consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time. And there appears to have been a 
general mistrust and lack of optimism. I also dont doubt Mr T was worried his pension would 
end up in the PPF or that hed heard negative things about the PPF and this was why he 
said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. 
With this in mind I think its quite possible that Mr T was also leaning towards the decision to 
transfer because of the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of 
the PPF. However, it was KBFSs obligation to give Mr T an objective picture and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
As Ive explained, I think KBFS should also have waited so that the option of the BSPS2 
couldve been fully considered and explained. Prior to the advice being given there were 
several important updates regarding the BSPS2 that indicated it was progressing and 
appeared likely to be an option for customers in Mr Ts position. So, the advice shouldve 
properly taken the benefits available to Mr T through the BSPS2 into account and I think this 
shouldve alleviated some of Mr Ts concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that KBFS shouldve 
reassured Mr T that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The 
income available to Mr T through the PPF wouldve still provided a significant portion of the 
income he thought he needed at retirement. And, when combined with his other means, 
appears likely to have allowed him to meet those goals. He was also unlikely to be able to 
exceed this by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were 
lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I 
dont think that these concerns shouldve led to KBFS recommending Mr T transfer out of the 
DB scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments
KBFS recommended a specific pension provider to Mr T. As Im upholding the complaint on 
the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr T, it follows that I 
dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because 
Mr T should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments 
wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr T. But KBFS 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr T might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr T needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Looking at the sequence of events, Im not sure that is what happened here. The direct 
interaction between KBFS and Mr T seems to have been limited. KBFS sent Mr T forms to 
complete to enable a transfer before issuing its written recommendation. And it seems to 
have been left to the other adviser, Firm A, to answer questions about this. So, based on 
what Ive seen it does very much look like KBFS enabled the transfer based on what Mr T 
thought he wanted, rather than whether it was suitable for him. And ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr T was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr T was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, for the reasons Ive explained, there were no other 
particular reasons which justified a transfer and outweighed this. So, I think KBFS shouldve 
advised Mr T not to transfer his benefits from the DB scheme.
Mr T had over 7 years before he reached the age at which hed indicated he might like to 
retire. But his plans were in any event unconfirmed. I don't think that it would've been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF. I say this because while it is true the PPF wouldve provided a more favourable 
actuarial reduction for very early retirement, because his plans were not confirmed, there 
was no guarantee the reduction in benefits he accepted would end up being offset by this 
more favourable actuarial reduction for early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr T 
wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he 
needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think if KBFS had correctly advised him against 
transferring Mr T wouldve opted into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr T would've gone ahead anyway, against KBFS' 
advice. KBFS argues that this is the case. It says it believes Mr T had already decided to 
transfer based on a mistrust of his employer. And KBFS says Mr T had already spoken to 
half a dozen other advisers and had only not transferred, based on the advice of another 
adviser who also recommended that he do so, as he was looking for a better deal in terms of 
ongoing fees.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr T wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against KBFS advice. Mr T had obtained a CETV from 
the trustees of the BSPS before speaking to KBFS. But hed also been told by that point 
about significant potential changes to the BSPS and that hed likely have to make a choice at 
some point. Obtaining a CETV allowed him to make an informed choice. But I dont think this 
means his mind was already made up.
As Ive explained, I dont doubt that Mr T had a negative opinion of his employer at that time, 
given what had happened with the BSPS to that point. But his employer and the pension 
scheme trustees were not entirely one and the same. And if KBFS had done more to draw 
that distinction I think this wouldve addressed some of Mr Ts concerns.
Mr T has acknowledged speaking to several different advisers. He says he was completely 
unsure of what to do and that uncertainty meant he wanted to gather as much information 
and opinion as possible. I dont think this is unreasonable. And the fact that he asked Firm A 
and subsequently KBFS for its advice indicates to me he hadnt made a decision, otherwise 
he wouldve had no need for seeking further advice. KBFS says that he only did so as he 
was seeking a better deal on fees. But even if that was part of his motivation, I dont think 
that means he was going to ignore the advice that was provided to him. 
Mr T says that none of the other advisers had recommended against transferring (although 
very few of the discussions had gotten much further than fees). So, there is no indication that 
he had already rejected similar advice. And Im not persuaded that Mr T wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against KBFS advice. Mr T, like many of his colleagues, 
had been given a lot of information about the BSPS in the months before taking advice. And 
I dont doubt hed taken the time to take all of that information on board. But the information 
Ive seen indicates that otherwise he was an inexperienced investor with a cautious or at 
best balanced attitude to risk. And this pension accounted for the majority of Mr Ts retirement provision. I dont doubt he 
was concerned about what may happen to his pension, particularly given the consultation 
that had been ongoing. And he mightve thought that transferring was a good idea. But, if 
KBFS had provided him with clear advice against transferring, explaining why it wasnt in his 
best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ts concerns about the consultation, or the potential appeal of 
alternative death benefits and flexibility were so great that he wouldve insisted on the 
transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was 
paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If KBFS had explained 
that Mr T could meet his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, either through 
the BSPS2 or the PPF, meaning he didnt need to be overly concerned about the prospect of 
the pension entering the PPF, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think 
Mr T would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme. 
In light of the above, I think KBFS should compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that KBFS also pay Mr T £300 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr T has been caused distress and concern by finding 
out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended in respect of this is fair.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr T whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or to wait for any new guidance / rules to be published. 
Mr T would like to wait for the outcome of the consultation before his complaint is settled. I 
consider it is fair that KBFS waits for the outcome of the consultation to settle this complaint.A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme and opted into the BSPS2 had he been suitably 
advised.
The basic objective of the proposed amendments to the redress methodology still remains to 
put a consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had 
advised them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and its 
proposed updates to the DB transfer redress methodology, Im satisfied that the proposed 
changes will, if ultimately implemented, still reflect a fair way to compensate Mr T.
KBFS must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon as 
any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9). A copy of the calculation should also be provided to 
Mr T and his representatives.
For clarity, Mr T has not yet retired and I understand he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal scheme retirement age of 65.
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance / rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and KBFS has 
received notification of Mr Ts acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to 
the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to 
DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes KBFS to pay Mr T.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If KBFS deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr T how much has been taken off. KBFS should give Mr T a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr T asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
In addition, KBFS should pay Mr T £300 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning. And I think this payment does not need to be held back while the 
relevant calculation is ongoing and should be made within 30 days of KBFS being notified of 
Mr Ts acceptance of my decision.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require KBFS Financial Limited 
to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
KBFS Financial Limited to pay Mr T any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require KBFS 
Financial Limited to pay Mr T any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
KBFS Financial Limited pays Mr T the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr T.
If Mr T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on KBFS Financial Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman