DRN-3401540
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with a cheque payment.
What happened
Mr C says he paid a cheque to his son for £100,000 in August 2020 which was signed by his 
wife. He says the cheque was returned unpaid and was told it was due to Barclays not 
having a record of his wifes signature despite them banking with it for well over 40 years. Mr 
C says Barclays didnt call him or his wife about what took place and is concerned about his 
account security. He says the issue caused significant distress to him and his family and 
would like £1,000 compensation.
Barclays cant explain what took place with the signature mandate and has apologised as 
well as paying £100 compensation. It says it has a record of calling Mr Cs wife about the 
cheque on 17 August 2020 but didnt receive an answer and says it changed its signature 
records which may have resulted in it not being able to use a digital copy of the signature if it 
wasnt of sufficient quality.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation paid by 
Barclays appropriate. The investigator thought Barclays may have previously held a 
signature mandate for Mr Cs wife and thought there evidence of a call on 17 August 2020. 
The investigator explained we were not Barclays regulator and couldnt consider the impact 
on the three others Mr C says were affected by its actions.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and in summary questions how the account could be run 
without an appropriate signature mandate. He says he was caused shock and 
embarrassment by what took place and questions why evidence hasnt be obtained about 
the telephone calls he disputes were made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has paid an appropriate 
compensation amount and I dont require it to increase that offer. I appreciate Mr C will be 
disappointed by my decision. I also make clear to Mr C that we are not Barclays regulator 
and so its not our role to review its systems for sending text message as Mr C suggests we 
should do.
There is no question here that Barclays made a mistake by not having Mr Cs wifes 
signature on its records. I accept that it may have been the case that when Barclays 
transferred signatures on to a digital database that it didnt hold a suitably clear copy of Mr 
Cs wifes signature. But I also accept that Mr C will no doubt question why Barclays didnt 
follow that up at the time and request a new signature mandate which would have avoided 
this problem. I appreciate Mr C also questions the account security in these circumstances, 
but I have to consider what did happen and so can only consider the impact of this mistake 
rather than speculate about what may have taken place over the last 40 years.
I have no doubt Mr C was caused inconvenience and distress when he found out that the 
cheque had been returned. I also accept that the lack of signature required Mr C and his wife 
to attend a Barclays branch. So, the only real issue for me to consider is the level of 
compensation. Im satisfied that Barclays has fairly apologised for what took place and has 
tried to explain what it thinks caused the issue. I wouldnt have expected Barclays to have 
provided any further information about what took place considering the length of time the 
account was open.
Im satisfied that Mr C didnt suffer any financial loss as a result of what took place and that 
the mistake by Barclays doesnt justify an award of £1,000 compensation as Mr C would like. 
I cant consider the impact of the mistake on Mr Cs family members as he is the 
complainant here and not them. Im also satisfied that Barclays corrected the mistake within 
what I consider to be a relatively short time period and I have not seen evidence of any costs 
caused by the delay in sending the money. For those reasons Im satisfied Barclays 
compensation offer and apology is fair and reasonable.
I have looked at Barclays records of 17 August 2020 and am satisfied there is a clear record 
of an attempted telephone call to a number ending 5210. I appreciate Mr C says such a call 
would have left a record on his home telephone. I think it likely on balance such a call was 
made by Barclays and can see no reason why or how a record would have been created in 
these circumstances unless it was made. But in any event, I dont think that is the main issue 
here and even if Barclays had been successful in speaking to either Mr C or his wife then I 
think it likely a new signature mandate would have been required.
Overall, I find that Barclays made a mistake but has acted fairly by paying an appropriate 
compensation amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman