DRN-2581315
The complaint
 Mrs H complained because HSBC UK Bank Plc debited her account twice with £200 
following a cash machine withdrawal. She said the first time, the machine didnt dispense her 
money. The second time, it did, but she only received one £200, not two. 
What happened
On 6 December 2019, Mrs H went into an HSBC branch to withdraw £200 cash.
Theres a conflict of evidence about what happened:
- Mrs H said that her card came out but the money didnt. She said she didnt want to 
leave the machine so asked someone to fetch a member of staff. An HSBC 
employee came and suggested she should put her card in again. Mrs H did, and 
£200 was dispensed. Mrs H was worried her account might be debited twice, so the 
employee checked her computer and told Mrs H it had only been debited once.
- HSBC said that it had watched the CCTV and Mrs H had taken the cash from the 
machine and put it into her handbag. Shed then put her card in again, and taken 
another £200 which she also put into her handbag. Mrs H then went to sit down, 
looked in her bag and made a phone call. A man came into the branch and they left 
together soon afterwards.
When Mrs H checked her statement on 4 January 2020, she saw that two £200 debits had 
been recorded. She went to the branch and was told the cash machine had balanced, so 
there was no money to refund. Mrs H complained. She heard nothing more, so she chased 
her complaint on 27 January.
The branch manager watched the branchs CCTV on 3 February. She said it showed Mrs H 
had twice received cash; that there hadnt been any other people in the banking hall to ask 
to fetch an employee; and that the only employee shown on the CCTV was dealing with 
another machine. 
Mrs H asked to see a copy, and the manager emailed the banks security team to ask for a 
CD to be taken of the CCTV. On 5 February the security team said it would be saved. But 
the next day the security team said it didnt have any images before 13 December because 
theyd been overwritten. It said it could take a copy if the branch CCTV still had the images  
but it didnt. So there was no copy for Mrs H to see.
Mrs H complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. He said hed have asked for a copy of the 
CCTV if it had still been available. But he said that HSBC had provided evidence that the 
cash machine had balanced. He explained that if there had been a problem with notes being 
dispensed, theyd have been stored in a separate purge bin, but there were no errors 
recorded. And the branch manager had provided a written statement confirming shed seen 
the CCTV. So he said that HSBC had acted fairly in refusing a refund.
Mrs H didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said the main evidence 
would be the CD containing the CCTV, which wasnt available. 
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
CCTV
I said that it was very frustrating that HSBC didnt keep the CCTV, especially when it was 
known that there was a dispute. The disputed transaction took place on 6 December and 
Mrs H disputed the transactions when she received her statement on 4 January. The branch 
didnt look at the CCTV until 3 February, and although the security team initially confirmed it 
would save the CCTV, it then said it didnt have any records before 13 December. And by 
then, the branchs own copy of the CCTV had also been deleted. 
I said that it wasnt satisfactory that it was nearly a month between Mrs H querying the 
transaction and the branch looking at the CCTV. It wasnt clear exactly when the CCTV was 
destroyed. The branch manager said she viewed the branch copy on 3 February, but despite 
a promise on 5 February, the CCTV had been destroyed by 6 February. Whatever exactly 
happened here, I thought HSBC could, and should, have kept this CCTV. The fact it didnt 
meant that Mrs H has been understandably frustrated by how it dealt with this situation.
Whats most likely to have happened
It often happens that evidence is missing, or conflicts. I then make my decision on what I 
think is most likely to have happened, taking into account the circumstances of the case and 
whatever evidence is available.
As Ive set out above, it was disappointing that the CCTV isnt available, because the branch 
didnt action Mrs Hs complaint promptly.
I would also normally expect to see the journal roll of the cash machine. This shows the 
machines detailed transactions. I asked HSBC to provide this, but it said that it wasnt 
available because the branch was undergoing four months refurbishment. Even in a 
refurbishment, wed expect a business to keep adequate records of what happened. And 
without the journal roll theres no evidence of the requests that were made from the machine.
HSBC provided the evidence from the purge box, showing the machine balanced. But that 
doesnt prove where the money dispensed went, as the journal roll does. The email from the 
branch manager also said that three staff witnessed the branchs CCTV, but we only had the 
branch managers evidence saying this. This boils down to just the conflicting evidence of 
the individuals  what Mrs H said happened, and what the branch manager said. 
I said that it wasnt possible for me to say with certainty which of these two conflicting 
accounts, Mrs Hs or the branch managers, is correct. 
But I also considered Mrs Hs computerised statements. These showed that Mrs H took out 
one £200 cash withdrawal on three dates in November. So that was a pattern of single 
withdrawals, not two withdrawals. But the statements also showed the timings for the two disputed withdrawals, one at 12:34 and the other at 12:35. These were just a few seconds 
apart, and didnt tally with Mrs Hs account whereby she asked for a member of staff to 
come, and they had a short discussion before she put her card in again. So I considered that 
it was more likely that the cash machine did dispense £200 cash twice, a few seconds apart.
Compensation
I found it was more likely than not that, despite the minimal evidence, the cash machine did 
dispense two cash withdrawals on Mrs Hs card on 6 December 2019. But I recognised that 
it was very frustrating for Mrs H that HSBC destroyed the CCTV, which she had requested. 
Although I didnt know exactly when the CCTV was destroyed, the months delay between 
Mrs Hs complaint, and the branch looking at the CCTV, clearly impacted on this. As the 
security team confirmed on 6 February that it didnt have CCTV before 13 December, I 
thought it was likely that if the branch had requested it promptly after Mrs Hs complaint, it 
would have been available. This was poor customer service by HSBC.
And it should have been possible for HSBC to check its journal roll which would have 
enabled it to say with more certainty to Mrs H that both transactions had happened.
So I considered it would be fair and reasonable for HSBC to pay Mrs H £100 compensation. 
Thats not for the disputed withdrawal, which I considered probably was dispensed. It was for 
the frustration and disappointed expectation Mrs H suffered, because shed have been able 
to view the CCTV herself if the branch had acted promptly when she first raised this matter.
responses to my provisional decision
Mrs H didnt accept the provisional decision. She disagreed with the branch managers 
version of what had happened in the branch. She hadnt got any money out of the machine, 
and it hadnt happened as HSBC had said. 
Mrs H said she wasnt happy that I hadnt commented on her point that the cash machine 
had made noises which hadnt allowed the withdrawal to complete. She still felt that the case 
made her look like a fraudster, and she felt HSBC was wrong. She was unhappy that it 
couldnt be proved because HSBC had lost the only evidence she would have had to show 
what had happened.
HSBCs response to my provisional decision was that it didnt agree with everything I had 
said. But it agreed to accept the recommendations, in the interests of bringing the matter to a 
close.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I recognise that Mrs H feels strongly about what happened, and shes sure that she didnt 
receive the money. As Ive explained above, there are two conflicting accounts  Mrs Hs 
and the branch managers - and I cant say with certainty which is correct. So Ive looked at 
the evidence from Mrs Hs statements, which showed that the two withdrawals were just 
seconds apart. It was for this reason that I consider its more likely than not that the cash 
machine did dispense the money twice. Its not that Im saying Mrs H is a fraudster, which 
shes worried about. Its easy to mis-remember what happened. Im sorry Mrs H is unhappy that I didnt mention what shed told us about the cash machine 
making noises. The reason I didnt do so was that machines do make a variety of noises, so 
that couldnt help me determine what really happened.  And as I set out in the provisional 
decision, I agree that it was very disappointing that HSBC didnt keep the CCTV evidence.  
Nor did it provide the journal roll which would also have been useful.
Having reconsidered all the evidence and arguments, I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for HSBC to pay Mrs H £100 compensation.  Thats not for the disputed 
withdrawal, which I considered probably was dispensed. It was for the frustration and 
disappointed expectation Mrs H suffered, because shed have been able to view the CCTV 
herself if the branch had acted promptly when she first raised this matter.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order HSBC Bank UK Plc to pay 
Mrs H £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman