DRN-4049908
The complaint
Miss N is unhappy that Quilter Financial Services Limited mis-sold her a life and critical 
illness insurance policy and an income protection insurance policy - as part of a personal 
insurance plan. 
What happened
In 2019, Quilter provided Miss N with financial planning advice. Part of that advice included 
recommending Miss N to take out life and critical illness cover (policy 1) as well as income 
protection cover (policy 2). That recommendation was ultimately accepted by Miss N.
Subsequently, Miss N contacted Quilter raising concerns that she was mis-led into buying 
both policies under false pretences.
Quilter looked into her concerns and didnt uphold them. So, Miss N brought a complaint to 
our service. Our investigator partially upheld her complaint. They concluded policy 2 wasnt 
mis-sold but given Miss Ns circumstances at the time, our investigator didnt think she had a 
need for policy 1 so that policy was mis-sold. She recommended that Quilter refund her the 
premiums paid for policy 1 together with 8% simple interest. 
Quilter didnt agree and set out its reasons for policy 1 being suitable. Quilters points didnt 
change our investigators opinion so this complaint has been passed to me to consider 
everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Quilter advised Miss N to take out both policies, so it was under an obligation to ensure that 
they were suitable for her needs. It also had to provide her with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the main features of both policies. 
I partially uphold this complaint because Im satisfied, for the reasons below, that policy 1 
was mis-sold to Miss N but policy 2 wasnt.
Policy 1 (life and critical illness)
Although the £100,000 benefit under policy 1 couldve been beneficial to Miss N if she was 
diagnosed with a critical illness  or to her estate, if she died  Im not persuaded she had a 
need for life and critical illness cover, given her age and personal circumstances at the time. 
Miss N was single, living at home with her parents and didnt have any dependants. 
Although she had some credit card debt, the financial planning summary reflects that this 
was far less than the money she had saved, and she didnt have a mortgage.
Quilter has more recently told us that Miss N was hoping to save for a deposit for a property. 
And that life and critical illness cover wouldve been beneficial for the future, and less 
expensive if purchased at an earlier age.
Ive seen evidence that Miss N was seriously considering buying a certain property in 2021  
around two years after policy 1 was sold to her. However, theres nothing to indicate from the 
documents from around the time that in 2019 she would shortly be buying a property. It may 
have been an aspiration of hers in 2019 but I dont think that means she had a need for 
policy 1 then. 
So, in the circumstances of this particular case, Im satisfied policy 1 was an unsuitable 
recommendation. From what Ive seen, theres no compelling reason that Miss N wouldve 
still bought policy 1 is shed been advised that she didnt have a need for it, even if she did 
have the budget for it. She didnt approach Quilter because she was specifically interested in 
life and critical illness insurance. 
I know Quilter has said that if Miss N didnt want policy 1, she was free not to take it out. 
However, shed engaged Quilter to provide her with financial planning advice. It doesnt look 
like she was experienced in such matters so its reasonable to think that shed accept the 
recommendations made. Ultimately, its for Quilter to ensure that the recommendation it 
made was suitable for her needs.
Further, although Miss N has had the benefit of policy 1 since its inception, and she or her 
estate couldve benefitted from it, that in itself doesnt mean policy 1 wasnt mis-sold to her  
or was suitable for her needs at the time it was sold. 
Policy 2 (income protection)
From what Ive seen I dont think Miss N was pressured to take out policy 2. Nor do I think 
income protection was unsuitable given Miss Ns circumstances. 
Theres nothing to suggest that she had extensive sick pay if she was unable to work 
through illness, so the benefit couldve been beneficial if she was too sick to work. Although 
Miss N was living at home, if she was without her regular income, a successful claim 
wouldve meant that she could receive over £1,100 per month  which was more than her 
monthly expenditure as reflected in the financial planning summary. 
There was a waiting period of three months before she could claim on policy 2. I dont think 
that was unsuitable given that Miss N had savings at the time which she couldve used to 
help her through the first few months without a regular income. 
Looking at the other key features of the policy, including the main exclusions, price and 
benefit period, I dont think theres anything else which made the recommendation 
unsuitable.
Although a letter to Miss N dated July 2019 sets out some key features of policy 2 (such as 
the monthly cost, benefit amount, waiting period and length of the policy) I dont know if Miss 
N was given clear, fair and not misleading information about all the main terms of policy 1 
before she agreed to buy it. But even if she wasnt, I dont think theres anything which 
wouldve put her off taking out the policy if shed known more about any of the key features. 
So, I dont think policy 2 was mis-sold to her. 
When making this finding Ive taken into account the contents of an advice about retirement 
and investments which was sent to Miss N by Quilter dated July 2019. It reflects that Miss N 
didnt want the advisor to look into certain areas (including income protection, life and critical illness cover). It also says that Miss N deemed income protection to be unnecessary at the 
time because she didnt have any dependants. The same is said about life and critical illness 
cover. But I accept what Quilter says about this summary being an error and contradicts 
another letter it sent Miss N the day before setting out its recommendation for policies 1 and 
2  which Miss N bought. So, Ive placed less weight on the contents of the retirement and 
investment advice letter in this context. 
Putting things right
I direct Quilter to reimburse the monthly premiums Miss N paid for policy 1 from the start 
date to the date on which it was cancelled. 
Quilter should also pay simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum from the date on which 
each monthly premium was paid to the date on which Quilter reimburses Miss N for the 
premiums paid for policy 1.
If Quilter considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any 
interest paid, it should tell Miss N how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate 
showing this if asked for one. That way tax from HM Revenue & Customs, can be reclaimed 
if appropriate.
My final decision
I partially uphold Miss Ns complaint and direct Quilter Financial Services Limited to put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman