DRN-2031552
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with the way Automobile Association Insurance Service Limited 
(AA) dealt with the administration of their motor insurance policy.
Mr J has dealt with the claim and complaint throughout. So for ease Ill refer to him only.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr J took out and paid for a motor insurance policy through AA. It was due to 
start in September. AA acted as an intermediary and arranged for an underwriter (B) to 
provide the motor insurance cover.
Between taking out the policy and its start date, Mr J received a speeding fine. He told AA 
about it before his policy was due to start. AA made a note of the fine and told him it wouldnt 
affect his policy.
In October, after the policy had started, B told AA it would make a difference  B wouldnt 
provide cover for a consumer with a speeding fine. So AA checked with the other 
underwriters on its panel of insurers. One of them (C) offered to cover Mr J, but the cost of 
the policy was more than the one he had with B.
Mr J says he felt he had little option but to accept the cost of the new policy to ensure his car 
remained insured and legal to drive. He paid the extra premium for the policy with C. He 
complained to AA. He said if AA had told him in August about the cost of the policy with C, 
he would have had the opportunity to look for a more competitive policy elsewhere. He also 
questioned whether he would have been covered for the period he was with B if he had 
needed to make a claim.
AA accepted it had made a mistake when it told Mr J his speeding fine wouldnt affect his 
policy. It acknowledged the new policy was more expensive but said it wouldnt refund any of 
the cost. It paid Mr J £75 in compensation and refunded the arrangement fee of around £25.
Mr J didnt think this went far enough to put things right for him as the compensation AA had 
offered was less than the additional premium he paid  around £350. He referred his 
complaint to this service and one of our investigators considered it. She said AAs offer to 
compensate Mr J was fair.
Mr J disagreed. In summary, he said any increase in premium brought about by AAs error 
should be paid by AA  not him. He said he needed to be able to drive for his job, so he felt 
he had to accept the new offer to remain insured and able to use his car.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, its been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AA has acted fairly, so I wont be asking it to do anything further. Ill 
explain why.
Its important to be clear about the scope of this complaint. I can only consider the actions of 
AA and things AA was responsible for. That means I cant consider whether Bs decision not 
to cover Mr J once it became aware of the speeding fine was fair. And nor can I consider 
whether the premium charged by C was fair.
Theres no doubt AA has made a mistake here. Its already accepted that. I understand it 
entered the speeding fine code into its system incorrectly. As a result, the system didnt 
recognise there was a speeding fine and it wasnt taken into account until around six weeks 
after the policy had started.
When a business accepts its made a mistake, Ill usually consider what position the 
consumer would have been in were it not for the mistake. And if the mistake has put the 
consumer in a worse position than they should have been, Ill consider what the business 
should do to put that right.
In this complaint, had the speeding fine code been entered correctly when Mr J told AA 
about it in August, its likely B would have withdrawn its offer and Cs would have been the 
most competitive AA had available. And Mr J wouldnt have been able to continue with the 
lower premium originally offered by B. That means Mr J would never had been in the 
position of paying the lower premium for his policy. So Im not persuaded AA needs to put 
him in that position now. Its mistake doesnt change the fact that B would have withdrawn its 
offer to insure him.
When the error was discovered in October, Mr J was informed about the offer from C and 
told he had seven days to arrange a new policy or the old one would be cancelled. I 
recognise this would have caused Mr J some stress and concern as he would have had to 
act swiftly to ensure he remained insured and able to use his car for work. But Im satisfied 
seven days in the circumstances was a reasonable period of time for him to find a new motor 
policy. And this is a similar position to the one he would have been in at the end of August  
when he called to confirm the speeding fine code, there were around seven days until the 
start of the policy.
Mr J has argued there was a difference between the two situations. He rightly points out that 
AAs panel of insurers is a subset of the entire insurance market. I agree with him its 
possible that searching the wider market may have meant he could have found a more 
competitive offer than Cs. But I havent seen any evidence to show he would have found 
such an offer  or how much more competitive it would have been. But the key point is that 
in both situations he had a similar amount of time to look for other options and was entitled 
to do so. AA didnt indicate he was obliged to accept Cs offer  it said Cs offer was 
available and not taking the offer would mean the policy would be cancelled in seven days.
I know Mr J feels he would have been in a worse position to search for insurance in October 
than he would have been in August as he says would have had to explain everything that 
had happened. But Im not persuaded thats the case. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr 
J couldnt have searched the market as a new customer in much the same way he did 
before he took out the AA policy initially.
AA has confirmed Mr Js policy with B was in place for around six weeks from the start date 
in September until the transfer to the new policy with C. It says he was insured throughout 
this time and would have been able to make a claim if hed needed to. I recognise Mr J isnt persuaded he would have been able to do so. As he didnt need to make a claim its all 
hypothetical, but I accept what AA has said.
Overall, Im not persuaded AAs error caused a financial impact to Mr J for the reasons given 
above. But I think it would have been distressing and frustrating for Mr J to find out about the 
error. Its clear it caused him additional time and effort to deal with AA and put things right.
Mr J has also noted difficulties communicating with AA. Initially AA didnt accept hed 
informed them of his speeding fine prior to the start of the policy. And it seems he had to 
provide information about the speeding fine several times before AA took action. Im satisfied 
this unnecessarily added to his frustration and distress about what had happened.
AA offered £75 compensation and refunded its fee of around £25. Im satisfied this was a 
reasonable remedy for the impact of its error.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2020.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman