DRN-4057427
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the quality of a car she acquired under a finance agreement with 
N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance.
What happened
Mrs B is represented in her complaint by her husband. However, to keep things simple, I 
have referred to all submissions from Mrs Bs representative as being made by Mrs B.
In January 2022 Mrs B acquired a used car which was supplied by Northridge Finance under 
a finance agreement.
Very shortly after acquiring it Mrs B complained about the quality of the car. Specifically, she 
complained variously about the infotainment system, Apple CarPlay and the USB 
connections all of which were not working correctly. Mrs B returned the car to the car 
dealership who I will call H for repair on several occasions. Each attempt at repair failed.
 
In May 2022 Mrs B told Northridge Finance that she wanted to reject the car following the 
failed repairs. During this time Mrs B was also unwell and was being investigated to 
establish the cause of her illness. Moreover, she was also using the car to take a close 
relative for medical treatment. Mrs B indicates that the way Northridge Finance engaged with 
her made an already stressful time even more distressing. Mrs B was also unhappy with the 
behaviour of H on several counts.
At first Northridge Finance was not prepared to accept the rejection of the car. The reason 
for its refusal was because it ultimately wanted to return the car to H, and H would not 
accept this
.
Dissatisfied with Northridge Finances response, Mrs B complained to our service.
Once Mrs Bs complaint was with us an expert was commissioned to inspect the car, Ill call 
the expert D. D inspected the car and concluded that the car was not of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Specifically D said, it is of my opinion that the Infotainment system has an 
internal failure, that has yet to be rectified, rendering the vehicle of an unsatisfactory 
condition at the point of [supply]. Northridge Finance accepted Ds conclusion. D inspected 
the car in July 2022.
The only point of disagreement that remained was the redress. Initially, Mrs B wanted to be 
put into the position she was in prior to entering into the agreement. Whereas Northridge 
was offering:
H will take back the car (subject to a visual inspection).
The finance agreement will be settled in full.
Mrs Bs liability towards the agreement will be discharged.
H will refund £6,697 (= deposit of £10,000  usage charge of £3,303). This charge for 
usage was based on the mileage of the car up until July 2022 i.e., the date of the 
report from D and on a mileage calculation methodology used by HM Revenue & 
Customs.
Northridge Finance will pay Mrs B £750 as a goodwill gesture.
Northridge Finance will ask the credit reference agencies to record the agreement as 
settled on her credit file.
Mrs B rejected Northridge Finances offer. Ive summarised her response. She did not agree 
that Northridge Finance should deduct the usage from her deposit. She pointed out that the 
agreement provided for her to do 10,000 miles per year before any excess mileage was 
charged. Therefore she did not agree that Northridge Finance could fairly charge her excess 
mileage for any mileage that was under the 10,000 mile limit. She pointed out she had made 
six monthly payments by direct debit not the five Northridge Finance accepts she has made. 
It appeared that Mrs B did not agree that Northridge Finance was entitled to retain the 
monthly payments she had made to date.
Moreover Mrs B considered that any refund should include interest at the rate of 8% simple 
per year as would be the normal approach in complaints of this kind. Further, Mrs B found 
Northridges tone inappropriate, and it was not working in her best interests. She mentioned 
again that Northridge Finances customer service fell below the level she was entitled to 
expect.
Later, Mrs B complained about receiving arrears notices from Northridge Finance even 
though it was Northridge Finance who had stopped the direct debits not her. She pointed out 
the arrears had begun to accrue only after this, and this was not her fault.
Northridge Finance did not agree that its offer was unfair. And it specifically mentioned that it 
considered there was no proper basis to ask it to pay 8% interest on any refund. And it 
reiterated it was entitled to charge Mrs B for usage (using the methodology it chose) and to 
offset that charge against any refund.
Later still, Mrs B told us that when she had applied for finance with Northridge Finance she 
had done this using a credit broker. She had paid the credit broker a fee and she wanted this 
fee refunded. Also Mrs B mentioned that if she wanted to enter into a new finance 
agreement it was likely the interest rate for the new agreement would likely be higher than 
the one under her current agreement, she thought it fair therefore that she should get 
compensation for this. Mrs B also told us she had recently been declined for credit which she 
indicated was as a direct result of the information Northridge Finance had asked the credit 
reference agencies to register on her credit file.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Bs complaint. Our investigator recommend that Mrs 
Bs complaint be upheld in part.
Neither Mrs B nor Northridge Finance told us they accepted our investigators 
recommendation. Northridge Finance did not respond at all. This was taken by us to be a 
rejection by both parties of the recommendation. Although Mrs B thanked us and asked to 
be kept informed of progress. Therefore wed reached an impasse and so I was asked to 
take a fresh look at Mrs Bs complaint. Having considered the available evidence, I was 
minded to uphold the complaint in part, but I the redress I intended to order was different 
from that which our investigator recommended. As a result, I thought it was fair to let the 
parties see my provisional findings and make further submissions (if they wanted to) before I 
made my final decision. Therefore, I issued a provisional decision and Ive set out below 
what I decided provisionally - and why. This forms part of my final decision.
What Ive decided and why
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Before I go further into the merits of this complaint, I want to make clear that in this complaint 
I cant look at how H has behaved. Even though I recognise that Mrs B has a number of 
misgivings about its behaviour. H is not the respondent in this complaint, therefore I have no 
power to look into its behaviour in this complaint and make any findings about it.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Northridge Finance is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
It appears that the issue of whether the car was of satisfactory quality is no longer in play. 
This is because Northridge Finance has accepted the findings of D that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality at the point when it was supplied. Therefore the only issue I need to look 
at is redress.
The parties seem to have agreed rejection is appropriate. I think this is a fair outcome if Mrs 
B and Northridge Finance had not already agreed on this point, I would have found that 
rejection was appropriate. This is because the faults that Mrs B complained about and 
wanted fixed made the car not of satisfactory quality, Mrs B complained from the get-go, she 
gave Northridge Finance the opportunity to repair, and the repairs failed.
I accept that Mrs B wanted to reject the car in May 2022, and she was entitled to do so at 
that point. Normally the redress would include rejection and a return of the full deposit but 
only if Mrs B had ceased to use the car from the point she rejected it. It would not be fair or 
reasonable to ignore what happened subsequently that is that Mrs B has continued to use 
the car after May 2022. I can see that she has because she has told us so and because the 
mileage has increased since she has had the car. For example, between when she acquired 
the car in January 2022 and the when the report was done by D in July 2022 the car was 
driven 7,340 miles. Moreover, the mileage has increased again as I can tell from the latest 
MOT which was done in November 2022, between July 2022 and November 2022 the car 
was driven a further 3,632 miles.
I accept that part of this mileage was necessary because Mrs B had to take her relative for 
hospital treatment. Mrs B has told us what treatment was being done, I dont have to be 
specific about that here. It is enough to say given the nature of the treatment I can well 
understand why it was important that Mrs Bs relatives exposure to other people had to be 
limited as far as it could be, which ruled out using both public transport and taxis. But the 
amount of the mileage suggests the car was not just being used for these hospital visits.
That said, nothing in the contract between Mrs B and Northridge Finance entitled Mrs B to 
free motoring. Further, when I take account of relevant law and what remedy Mrs B is 
entitled to I see nothing that says the remedy should be Mrs B gets free motoring. Moreover, 
even if Mrs B had rejected the car in May 2022 and acquired or bought a new car she would still have had motoring costs. Therefore I find it is fair and reasonable that Northridge 
Finance be permitted to charge Mrs B for the use she has had of the car.
I find it likely that due to the faults with the car that made it not of satisfactory quality, Mrs B 
had impaired usage of the car. As I already mentioned, I also take account of Mrs B being 
obliged to continue to use the car as the means of transporting her relative for hospital 
treatment even after she wanted to reject the car. Therefore I find that Mrs B should not have 
to pay the full monthly payments for the use of the car. Instead her payments should be 
reduced by 15%. This means Mrs B has to pay 85% of the monthly payments that have 
accrued from June 2022 until the date of the final decision. I realise that Mrs B has already 
paid Junes monthly payment in full, so shell get 15% of that months repayment back as a 
refund from Northridge Finance.
I find that Northridge Finance can offset the payments it should have received from July 
2022 until the date of the final decision, against the deposit and then it must refund the 
balance of the deposit. If Mrs B has not used the car since November 2022 she can tell me 
that in responding to my provisional decision. But in that case I will need to see information 
from her to demonstrate the cars current mileage. This might change the redress I find is fair 
and reasonable. This is because I intend that Mrs B only be charged for the use she has had 
of the car not for the time she has had possession of the car. 
I recognise that Mrs B is unlikely to be happy about having to pay for the use she has had of 
the car since July 2022, but I have explained above why I think this is fair and reasonable. I 
also take account of the fact that Northridge Finance has lost out too, whilst the car has been 
in her possession its asset has depreciated in value. Northridge Finance will now most likely 
be able to get less for the car if it sells it than it would have done if its asset had been 
returned in May 2022.
Mrs B appears to want a full refund of the monthly payments she made between January 
2022 and June 2022. I dont think that is fair or reasonable. She did have use of the car 
during that period. But as I mention above her use was impaired and therefore I think 
Northridge Finance must refund 10% of the payments Mrs B made between January 2022 
and May 2022. (I have already dealt with what should happen to the June 2022 repayment 
above). 
Mrs B talks about excess mileage, but excess mileage comes into play where we are talking 
about specific termination options. We are not talking those termination options here we are 
discussing rejection of the car. Neither do I agree with Northridge Finances suggestion 
about charging the HMRC usage rate. I think that methodology is irrelevant to this complaint.
It is clear that Mrs B was upset at receiving letters setting out that the agreement was in 
arrears especially since she did not cancel the direct debits and thereby cause the arrears. 
But Northridge was obliged by law to send these letters so I dont agree I have any proper 
basis for saying it should not have done this. 
I also realise Mrs B has found the tone of some of the communications from Northridge 
Finance to be inappropriate. But I dont it merely set out its position as I think it was 
appropriate to do and I found the tone business-like. Mrs B raises issues about the specific 
complaint handling rules that Northridge Finance has to follow as a regulated business. Im 
sorry to disappoint her, but I cant look at that part of her complaint. Thats because 
complaint handling isnt an activity listed within the rules that govern this service. Complaints 
about how a complaint has been dealt with simply are not something that falls within the 
remit of this service.That said Northridge Finance has been at fault here in some respects and I think these faults 
most likely caused Mrs B distress and inconvenience. It behaved at times as if H was the 
supplier of the car and the provider of the finance. I say this because it did not have to wait 
for H to accept the rejection of the car. Northridge Finance had the power to do that itself, 
Mrs B has no obligation to return the car to H, who is a third party. Moreover any refunds are 
the responsibility of Northridge Finance not H. I think all this failure to take responsibility on 
Northridge Finances part most likely caused Mrs B unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. This was all the more regrettable given this was happening at a time when 
Mrs B was ill and Northridge Finance ought to have known this. However, I think the £750 it 
has offered for distress and inconvenience is appropriate. It follows I am not going to require 
it to pay more.
Mrs B tells us she paid a fee for credit broking when she entered into the agreement with 
Northridge Finance, but it was not a party to this, and therefore I see no basis on which I can 
ask it to refund this fee.
It may well be that Mrs B will have to pay more interest if she enters into a new finance 
agreement than she currently pays under the agreement with Northridge Finance but that is 
not the fault of Northridge Finance it is a function of the market, and I therefore cannot fairly 
or reasonably hold it to account for this.
Mrs B indicates she has been rejected for new finance, but lenders decline to lend for any 
number of reasons. Just because Mrs B has not been declined for finance before does not 
mean that this current rejection is down to anything Northridge Finance has done wrong. 
Moreover, Mrs B has sent us nothing from the prospective lender that says its decision is 
based on something Northridge Finance asked to be registered on Mrs Bs credit file.
Northridge Finance has disputed the appropriateness of adding 8% simple interest to any 
refund it makes. It is a rate which I consider to be a fair yardstick for compensating 
consumers for a wide range of possible losses and lost opportunities. And it is a rate often 
(but not always) used by the courts in not dissimilar situations. Bearing all of this in mind, 
and again taking account of the particular circumstances of this complaint, I consider that the 
8% simple rate is fair and reasonable.
Provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to require N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge 
Finance to:
End the agreement with Mrs B with nothing further owed aside from the payments 
that I have said it can keep and the payments I have said it can deduct from the 
deposit.
Collect the car from Mrs B at no cost to Mrs B at a time which is mutually convenient.
Refund 10% of all the monthly payments made by Mrs B between January 2022 to 
May 2022. It must add interest to this refund at the rate of 8% simple per year. The 
interest to run from the date the payments were made until the date of settlement.
Refund 15% of the monthly payment made by Mrs B for June 2022. It must add 
interest to this refund at the rate of 8% simple per year. The interest to run from the 
date the payment was made until the date of settlement.
Return the deposit of £10,000 minus a sum that equals 85% of the monthly repayments which should have been made by Mrs B between July 2022 and the date 
of the final decision. It must add interest to the balance at the rate of 8% simple per 
year. The interest to run from the date the deposit was paid until the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mrs B £750 for distress and inconvenience.
Ask the credit reference agencies to mark the agreement as settled in full on Mrs Bs 
credit file and ask the credit reference agencies to remove any adverse information it 
has asked them to register on Mrs Bs credit file in relation to the finance agreement 
it has with Mrs B.
It must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which Mrs B accepts the 
final decision that may be issued after this provisional decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the £750 from the date of the final decision until the date of 
payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Mrs B can reclaim the tax if she is able to.
Mrs B should refer back to Northridge Finance if she is unsure of the approach it has taken 
and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about 
the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation. 
As far as I am aware we received no response from Northridge Finance to my provisional 
decision, however, Mrs B did respond. Ive summarised her response below.
Mrs B indicated that my provisional decision was inaccurate in several respects 
which she found concerning.  However, she told us I will only be pointing out the 
significant inaccuracies and there are points that have not been addressed clearly.
Mrs B indicated that she did respond to the investigators recommendation. 
Moreover, she has been penalised because Northridge Finance did not respond to 
our investigators recommendation. Mrs B added, I should not have to pay 85% of 
monthly repayments from January 2023 to date for the finance company not 
responding to the original findings feel it is only fair that between January 2023 to 
date it should be a 50% split on monthly payments.
Mrs B pointed out that she had made several attempts to return the car, reinstate 
payments and resolve the complaint, but Northridge had not responded, and I had 
not noted down individually each of these attempts and commented on them, which 
she appeared to consider to be an error.
She told us she had no choice but to use the car to take herself and another close 
relative to hospital (not the relative mentioned in the provisional decision) and to do 
the school run. Mrs B gave reasons why she could not have used her husbands car. 
Mrs B added I was unable to purchase another car until I received my deposit back 
and it would have been unwise for me to hire a car as this would have put me in a 
financial deficit.
Mrs B pointed out other ombudsmen in different decisions have said 20% is a more 
appropriate percentage to use than the 15% I mentioned in my provisional decision. 
When I compare your outcome to the Ombudsmans, there is a gap in analysis and 
views.
Mrs B made it clear she is rejecting the provisional decision. And she also told us we 
had taken too long to deal with her complaint which she indicated had caused her 
detriment.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file again and revisited my provisional decision. Im very aware that Ive 
summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so using my own 
words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties involved. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
I thank Mrs B for her response to my provisional decision. It has been particularly helpful that 
Mrs B took the time to set out her views on the redress which I proposed in my provisional 
decision, so that I have been able to gain a fuller understanding of her position and concerns 
about some elements of the proposed redress. Ive thought about her further points.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I dont agree that my provisional decision was inaccurate although I regret to hear that Mrs B 
thinks it was. We received no response from Mrs B specifically about our investigators 
recommendation she neither said she accepted it or rejected it. Rather the response we 
received dated 12 December 2022 said.
Thank you for sharing your view.
Please do keep us posted.
I was not aware from this response that Mrs B wished to accept the recommendation. 
In any event, Mrs B is not being penalised for the lack of response from Northridge Finance. 
Rather, we have merely followed our process. This process provides that if either one of 
parties or both do not accept the recommendation at the investigation stage and the 
consumer still wishes to proceed with the complaint then the complaint goes to an 
ombudsman to take a fresh look at it. 
As I already said in my provisional decision I think it is fair and reasonable that Northridge 
Finance be able to charge Mrs B for the use shes had of the car as a starting point. But it is 
also fair and reasonable to take account of the impaired use she had, and that Mrs B used 
the car to transport her close relative to get medical treatment in very special circumstances 
that is why I suggested that Mrs B should only pay 85% of her contractual monthly 
repayments from June 2022 onwards. 
I note that Mrs B suggests that she should pay 50% of the monthly repayments from January 
2023 to date. She seems to be saying that this is fair because Northridge Finance did not 
respond to our investigators view. But what I am looking at is what Northridge Finance 
should fairly or reasonably be able to charge for the use Mrs B has had of the car. She had 
this use regardless of whether Northridge Finance responded to our investigators 
recommendation or not. So I dont see that there is any fair or reasonable basis for her 
proposal. It follows that I am not going to endorse this proposal.
I acknowledge Mrs B did try to return the car on more than one occasion. Also Mrs B raised 
reinstating her direct debits and she contacted Northridge Finance about trying to settle the 
complaint on more than one occasion too. However, I cannot fairly or reasonably then 
discount the use she has had of the car solely because she tried to do these things more than once. If I did this I would be requiring Northridge Finance to give Mrs B free motoring 
and that would be manifestly unfair given that this is not something they ever agreed 
between them would happen under the contract and this is not a remedy the law gives Mrs 
B.
Mrs B has mentioned that she also used the car to take herself and another close relative to 
hospital appointments and admissions. But she has not explained why these visits could not 
have been done using alternative transport such as her husbands car, or public transport or 
taxi for example. This seems to be a very different situation from the situation I wrote about 
in my provisional decision where it was clear that it was imperative that Mrs B made sure 
that this particular relative was kept isolated from other people as far as was possible.  Mrs B 
also tells us about the day to day use she made of the car. Which it appears she also thinks 
she should not be charged for.  Mrs B would always have had to pay for this kind of use in 
any event, in the normal course of affairs. In the circumstances, for all of these reasons, I 
have no proper basis for saying that Northridge Finance should not be able to charge her for 
this use.
I recognise that Mrs B did not purchase or acquire an alternative car or hire one. However, 
that does not mean she should not be charged for the use of the car she had that belongs to 
Northridge Finance. If Mrs B had purchased or acquired an alternative car she would still 
have had motoring costs that related to the alternative car. In other words under either 
scenario she would always have had motoring costs regardless of anything that Northridge 
Finance had to take responsibility for.
Mrs B points to the decisions of other ombudsmen. She appears to be suggesting that this 
service has a blanket approach that I have not followed. This is not the case there is no such 
blanket approach. Moreover, I am not bound by my ombudsmen colleagues decisions, 
because ombudsmens decisions are not binding precedents in the way that the courts 
decisions are. Instead, I am required to form my own view of this complaint, based on the 
very individual circumstances of this complaint, rather than to follow the views of others in 
other complaints. So I dont agree I must change the percentage to 20% in order to reach a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
I regret how long it has taken this service to deal with Mrs Bs complaint and I recognise Mrs 
B has complained about this separately as a service complaint. I have no power to deal with 
service complaints about our service here. However, the redress I have suggested is based 
on the use Mrs B has had of the car and I am satisfied that is a fair and reasonable 
approach. 
I have not been persuaded by Mrs Bs responses to my provisional decision. It follows in this 
final decision, I have reached the same conclusions for the same reasons as in my 
provisional decision
My final decision
My final decision is that I require N.I.I.B. Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance to:
End the agreement with Mrs B with nothing further owed aside from the payments 
that I have said it can keep and the payments I have said it can deduct from the 
deposit. 
Collect the car from Mrs B at no cost to Mrs B at a time which is mutually convenient.
Refund 10% of all the monthly payments made by Mrs B between January 2022 to 
May 2022. It must add interest to this refund at the rate of 8% simple per year. The 
interest to run from the date the payments were made until the date of settlement.
Refund 15% of the monthly payment made by Mrs B for June 2022. It must add 
interest to this refund at the rate of 8% simple per year. The interest to run from the 
date the payment was made until the date of settlement.Return the deposit of £10,000 minus a sum that equals 85% of the monthly 
repayments which should have been made by Mrs B between July 2022 and the date 
of the final decision. It must add interest to the balance at the rate of 8% simple per 
year. The interest to run from the date the deposit was paid until the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mrs B £750 for distress and inconvenience as it has already offered to do.
Ask the credit reference agencies to mark the agreement as settled in full on Mrs Bs 
credit file and ask the credit reference agencies to remove any adverse information it 
has asked them to register on Mrs Bs credit file in relation to the finance agreement 
it has with Mrs B.
It must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which Mrs B accepts the 
final decision that may be issued after this provisional decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the £750 from the date of the final decision until the date of 
payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Mrs B can reclaim the tax if she is able to.
Mrs B should refer back to Northridge Finance if she is unsure of the approach it has taken 
and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about 
the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman