DRN-2579898
The complaint
Mr H complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix) wont backdate his annuity 
payments from the age of 55  which is when he became eligible to draw his benefits. He 
also complains that Phoenix didnt make its plan cancellation rights clear enough when he 
did take out the annuity in 2020.
What happened
Mr H held a non-profit deferred annuity contract as part of an occupational pension scheme. 
The scheme had been wound up which meant Mr H was left with a revised guaranteed 
minimum pension which was payable on his normal retirement date of 14 December 2026 
when he would be 65. However, the plan did allow for benefits to be taken from age 55  as 
long as the GMP was covered when Mr H reached state pension age. 
But Mr H had no memory of the pension until, in late 2019, he became aware of it when he 
was trying to look into his retirement provision. So he contacted Phoenix and asked about 
drawing his benefits. Phoenix issued the claim forms in January 2020 and confirmed that 
Mr H could now take his benefits from the plan. Mr H completed the application requesting 
his tax free cash to be paid with a residual annuity.  The first annuity payment was made on 
20 February 2020  but was backdated to 13 January 2020.  Phoenix then issued a 
confirmation letter with cancellation rights enclosed. 
But in July 2020 Mr H contacted Phoenix to ask if it was possible to have his annuity 
backdated to his 55th birthday, which was the age from which it could have been paid. 
Phoenix confirmed this wasnt posssible as the cooling off period to cancel the annuity had 
passed. So Mr H complained, saying he was unhappy that he was unable to cancel his 
annuity and have it backdated to the date when he would have been first eligible to draw the 
benefits (age 55). And he didnt believe that Phoenix had adequately explained the cooling 
off notice that would have allowed him to cancel the annuity.
Phoenix didnt uphold the complaint. It said that as annuities were calculated to provide an 
income for life customers were given a limited time frame in which to cancel at inception. It 
said that in Mr Hs case this time had elapsed and it was unable to cancel his payments and 
provide quotations for a new plan.
Mr H remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to us where one of our investigators 
looked into the matter. She said Phoenix wasnt able to backdate the annuity to when Mr H 
had become 55 years old. She explained that the plan had been part of a group scheme with 
a normal retirement date of December 2026  so Phoenix wasnt required to contact Mr H 
until nearer that date and then to pay the proceeds at that time. She said it simply wasnt 
reasonable to tell Phoenix to backdate payments to when Mr H believed he first became 
eligible to draw his benefits.
Mr H didnt accept the outcome and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So its been passed to me for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator and for largely the same reasons. Ive seen 
how strongly Mr H feels about this matter and I know this outcome isnt the one he had 
hoped for  so Ill explain my reasons.
Ive seen a copy of the letter Phoenix sent Mr H on 14 January 2020 which confirmed the 
benefits available to him from his plan with two illustrations detailing his income with and 
without a tax free lump sum. Mr H was told to respond by 2 February 2020 to ensure the 
figures that were quoted were guaranteed. 
The letter said the options available to Mr H included: 
A lifetime annuity from Phoenix with or without a tax free cash lump sum.
Transferring the benefits to another scheme.
Deferring benefits to a later date  but before his 75th birthday.
So, looking at the options available, I dont think Phoenix gave Mr H any alternatives that 
allowed him to backdate his annuity request. The options available to him were set out 
clearly and I dont think Phoenix acted unfairly by not offering a backdated option. There was 
no suggestion that Mr Hs annuity would take effect from any other date then when his 
information was received back and payment put in place. 
There was also a section in the letter entitled changing your mind which said that, if you 
choose to buy a lifetime annuity from us, you have a period of reflection of 30 days from the 
date we receive a completed lifetime annuity option form, or from the date on which the 
annuity starts if later, to change your mind and send us the enclosed cancellation form. Once 
this period has passed, the annuity payments cannot be cancelled or amended in any way. If 
you choose to transfer your plan, your decision is not reversable. You cannot change your 
mind once payment has been made and re-instate your Phoenix Life plan.
I think the information contained within the letter was clear. The cancellation rights for Mr H, 
if he wanted to change his mind within 30 days, were set out and it was clearly explained 
that the annuity, once purchased, couldnt be changed or reversed  outside of that 30 day 
cancellation period. And the information was reinforced within another letter dated 
13 February 2020 which said we wish to remind you that you have the right to change your 
mind within the 30 days from when we received your completed option form.
Mr H asked Phoenix to reverse the annuity in July 2020 which was after the 30 day 
cancellation period. So I dont think Phoenix acted unfairly by declining his request to cancel 
his annuity. And as it had made it clear the annuity couldnt be reversed, I think it was within 
its rights to refuse to set up a new, backdated plan for Mr H. 
But, even if Mr H hadnt been aware of the warnings and guidance Ive set out above, it still 
wouldnt have been possible for Phoenix to backdate the annuity to 2016. Thats because a 
lifetime annuity is the result of a process whereby a pension fund is turned into an income for 
life, based on a number of factors at a specific point in time. Age, sex and health are just 
some of the factors which go to determine the annuity rate that a consumer is offered. 
So, in Mr Hs case these factors would have produced a specific income at age 55 if hed 
applied for an annuity at that point. It therefore wouldnt be possible for Phoenix to simply 
backdate his annuity payments, it would need to recreate the exact circumstances that 
would have been in place when Mr H was 55.  That time has now passed and I dont think it would be fair to ask Phoenix to recreate that 
sitaution. It hasnt made any errors in setting up Mr Hs annuity from the time he approached 
it and asked for his benefits to be paid, so I dont think it would be fair to ask Phoenix to put 
something right that it hadnt got wrong in the first place. 
Mr H didnt approach Phoenix when he was aged 55 because he wasnt aware of the plans 
existence. He made an application to draw the benfits when he became aware and Phoenix 
set up the annuity from that point and paid the proceeds (tax free cash and first annuity 
payment) in a timely manner.
I appreciate Mr H thinks Phoenix should have kept him updated with regards to his plan, but 
I dont think it was obliged to make him aware of his forthcoming benefits until he was closer 
to the normal retirement age under the original scheme rules. It has to be remembered that 
this was an occupational pension scheme in the first place.
So I wouldnt have expected Phoenix to have done more here and I think it acted accordingly 
when Mr H contacted it about his benefits.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman