DRN-4191876
The complaint
Mr L complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted him a 
conditional sale agreement that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr L acquired a used vehicle financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr L was required to make 59 monthly repayments of £490.99. The total 
amount repayable under the agreement was £33,213.41. Mr L and his representative for the 
complaint believe Moneybarn failed to complete adequate affordability checks. Mr L says 
that if it had it wouldve been clear that the agreement wasnt affordable.
Moneybarn disagreed. It said it carried out an adequate assessment which included a full 
credit search and further verification of Mr Ls income using personal and business current 
account statements. It said these showed he had no outstanding repayments on his file, and 
whilst hed previously defaulted on other borrowing this was 52 months prior to his 
application and hed been maintaining contributions towards repaying the debts. It also 
showed that Mr L had a County Court Judgement on his file, but that this was from 59 
months prior to the sale, and Mr L had been previously discharged from the Insolvency 
Register. It calculated his net disposable income as around £2,388.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. They thought 
Moneybarns checks were proportionate and that it didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by 
approving the finance. 
Mr L and his representative didnt agree and said Moneybarn incorrectly relied on his 
business account statements to verify his personal income. They stated that his real income 
that year was between £11,000 to £12,000 and asked for an Ombudsman to issue a final 
decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
We explain how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ls complaint. Moneybarn needed to 
ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly as per the rules set out in the FCAs Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC). In practice, what this means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out 
proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was affordable for Mr L 
before providing it.
In this case, there are two overarching questions that I need to answer to fairly and 
reasonably decide Mr Ls complaint. These two questions are:
1. Did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that     
Mr L would be able to repay his loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr L wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Moneybarn complete a reasonable and proportionate affordability check?
Moneybarn was required to ensure it carried out adequate checks on Mr Ls ability to 
sustainably afford the agreement. These checks had to be borrower-focussed and 
proportionate (see CONC 5.2A). What is considered proportionate will vary depending on 
the circumstances, such as (but not limited to): the total amount repayable, the size of the 
monthly repayments, the term of the agreement and the consumers specific circumstances 
(CONC 5.2A.20 R).
Im satisfied that Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of information from Mr L about 
his income prior to approving the finance. I say this because apart from a full credit check it 
also obtained two months of current account statements for Mr Ls business and personal 
accounts. I note that it hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it relied on  so instead Ive 
relied on a copy of the credit file supplied by Mr L to investigate the complaint.
Im satisfied that this copy broadly reflects what Moneybarn wouldve likely seen when it 
completed its own checks and is consistent with the information it disclosed in its responses 
to date. Due to the time that has passed the copy available no longer shows the previous 
default, county court judgement or discharge from the insolvency register, however neither   
Mr L nor his representative have disputed that these were present at the time.
So, at the time of the application Im satisfied that Mr L had an account which had defaulted 
52 months prior and had ongoing repayments towards the amounts owed. I do think this 
ought to have indicated Mr L may have been struggling financially and so I wouldve 
expected Moneybarn to take further consideration of Mr Ls financial situation before 
approving any lending. Im satisfied that this is exactly what it did  it has provided me with 
the bank statements it used to separately verify Mr Ls income and expenditure.
Overall, Im satisfied that Moneybarn gathered a reasonable and proportionate amount of 
evidence and information to be able to adequately assess whether the agreement was 
affordable and sustainable for Mr L. However, this doesnt automatically mean it made a fair 
a lending decision.
Did Moneybarn make a fair lending decision?
Ive considered the statements obtained at the time, which consist of two months of use of 
both his business and current account. I appreciate Mr Ls representative feels Moneybarn 
relied too heavily on his business account statements, which they feel were not a true 
reflection of his personal income and expenditure. Ive thought about this point carefully and 
looked closely at his personal current account statements, and Im satisfied that it is these 
statements which Moneybarn primarily used to verify his income and expenditure.
These statements show that the total monthly income into his personal account averaged 
over the two months was around £4,567 after a deduction of 20% tax. His regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was around £2,173. In calculating this amount Ive included 
any applicable payments for his credit commitments, housing costs, utilities, food, fuel and 
other ongoing costs such as a regular transfer to his partner. Altogether Mr Ls income and 
expenditure at the time satisfies me that the agreement did not appear to be unaffordable  
as it amounted to roughly 20% of his disposable income.
Im satisfied from the information provided that it was likely that Mr L had more than sufficient 
disposable income to meet the monthly repayments and have money left over each month 
for emergency or unexpected costs. Whilst the credit check did show Mr L had some prior 
adverse information relating to other credit commitments, Im not satisfied that there was 
anything available to demonstrate that he was struggling to maintain the payment 
arrangements he had in place at the time.
Moneybarn was entitled to lend to Mr L even if he had a previous poor history of repaying 
credit, but if it did so it needed to ensure it was affordable and sustainable. It seems Mr L still 
had sufficient disposable income each month to make reasonable repayments towards his 
debts, his other credit commitments and the new finance agreement in a sustainable way. 
From everything Ive seen I cant reasonably say Moneybarn acted unfairly when approving 
Mr Ls finance agreement.
Did Moneybarn act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
 
Im not persuaded from the submissions made to date that Moneybarn acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some other way. 
Mr L has an outstanding balance owed under his agreement. Id remind Moneybarn of its 
obligation to treat Mr L with forbearance and due consideration if he is currently in financial 
difficulty.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman