DRN-3236351
Complaint
Mr R has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly refused to 
allow him access to his savings account and also unfairly failed to clear the balance on an 
overdraft hed already paid off. 
Background
Mr R has also complained about a debit card being cancelled and charges added to his 
overdraft when he was in difficulty. But weve already explained why we wont be considering 
these matters as part of this complaint and so I wont be considering them in this decision.
Mr Rs complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that NatWest had 
done anything wrong and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicator 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mr R says that NatWest unfairly allowed him to access £1,300.00 from a savings account. 
He said that hed seen that he had this balance the last time he used his card at a cash 
machine. Ive thought about what Mr R has said and I dont know when the last time he saw 
the balance on the savings account, or when the cash machine visit hes referred to took 
place. But hes been provided with the transaction list for this account which shows that he 
wasnt denied access to this account. And the funds in question were gradually withdrawn. 
So I dont think that NatWest did unfairly refuse to allow Mr R access to the funds in his 
savings account.
I now turn to Mr Rs complaint about the balance on his current account. Ive looked at the 
transaction list for the current account in question. And its clear that there was an 
outstanding balance remaining to be repaid. NatWests notes also suggest that Mr R was 
given the option of removing the overdraft from his account and arranging a repayment plan 
for the outstanding balance. However, as I understand it this option wasnt taken up and 
thats why an outstanding balance remained. As this is the case, Im satisfied that Mr R didnt 
repay the full amount outstanding on his overdraft.
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that NatWest has done anything 
wrong or treated Mr R unfairly. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. I 
appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr R  especially as it has taken sometime 
for his complaint to reach this stage. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman