DRN-2626104
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that he couldnt access his account with Barclays Bank UK PLC via their 
mobile banking application following an upgrade to the application.   
What happened
Mr G has an account with Barclays. Following an update by Barclays to their mobile banking 
application, Mr G discovered that he could no longer access his account via that application. 
Mr G wasnt happy about this, especially given that he spends considerable time overseas 
and uses the mobile banking application as his primary means of accessing his account. So, 
he made a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Gs complaint. They noted that there were several factors which were 
likely to be affecting the functionality of the mobile banking application for Mr G. These 
included that Mr Gs personal information hadnt been updated or confirmed on Barclays 
system for some time, as well as Mr G holding an overseas telephone number which would 
prohibit him from using the application. So, they didnt uphold this aspect of his complaint.
However, Barclays acknowledged that Mr G had experienced some difficulty when trying to 
get through to their telephone banking team, and so they made payments totalling £60 by 
way of compensation for this.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that the reasons that Barclays 
had provided as to why Mr G could no longer access the mobile banking application were 
reasonable ones, and they also felt that the compensation that Barclays had paid Mr G for 
his inconvenience when trying to contact Barclays was fair. So, they also didnt uphold this 
complaint.
Mr G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has expressed to this service his dissatisfaction in the way that Barclays handled his 
complaint, and specifically his belief that Barclays closed his complaint before a resolution 
that was satisfactory to Mr G had been reached.
I can appreciate that Mr G might be frustrated in this regard. However, Mr Gs dissatisfaction 
in this specific regard is directed at how Barclays handled his complaint. 
This service doesnt have a free hand to investigate all aspects of every complaint that is 
referred to us. The rules we operate under  known as DISP in the FCA Handbook  explain 
our jurisdiction. And these rules confirm that this service doesnt have the remit to look at 
complaints made about the complaint handling process of a business.
This means that I have been unable to consider this aspect of Mr Gs complaint, but instead 
have focused on what this service is permitted to consider, which in this instance is whether 
Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably in how they managed Mr Gs account following Mr G 
informing them that he could no longer access his account via the mobile banking platform. 
Having completed my review, I find that the reasons Barclays have given as to why Mr G 
might have experienced issues with the functionality of the mobile banking system have 
merit.
For instance, Barclays have explained that Mr G has not confirmed his personal information 
with Barclays for several years, and that the previous information supplied by Mr G had 
expired. Given that Barclays have regulatory obligations which include ensuring that 
customers personal information is maintained to certain standards, its understandable this 
this may have caused Mr Gs account to be flagged, pending updated information being 
provided.
Barclays have also noted that Mr G appears to be using an overseas telephone number, 
which would prohibit use of the mobile banking application. And that Mr Gs mobile banking 
registration was showing as cancelled on their systems.
So, its difficult to conclude that Barclays have treated Mr G unfairly or unreasonably in this 
instance. Especially given that Barclays explained to Mr G the steps that he could take to 
rectify the position here, including updating his personal information with Barclays. I 
understand that Mr G is overseas, and so updating his information with Barclays isnt as 
easy as it would be if he were within the UK, and Mr G has confirmed that he did try to 
contact Barclays to this service. But I cant fairly censure Barclays because of the difficulties 
that Mr G faced because he was abroad, and I must note that the processes that Barclays 
are following here seem reasonable to me. 
With regard the £60 compensation that Barclays paid to Mr G for the inconvenience Mr G 
experienced in trying to contact Barclays, my understanding is that Mr G feels that this 
compensation amount doesnt go far enough. 
Matters of compensation are always subjective, and one person may consider an offer fair 
while a different person does not. But Mr G would always have needed to contact Barclays 
in this instance, and so some level of inconvenience was necessary. And while there was 
some additional inconvenience to Mr G, the level of compensation that Barclays have 
already paid in consideration of this does feel fair to me, and I must note that it is 
commensurate with what this service would expect, considering the circumstances here.
It follows then that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take any further 
action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr G was wanting, but I hope 
he can understand, based on everything I have explained above, why I have made the 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman