DRN-2960054
The complaint
Mr M complained that 1Plus1 Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with 
an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Mr M was given a loan by 1Plus1 as follows:
Date taken Loan status Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly 
repayment*Total payable
July 2019 Paid 
(November 
2019)36 £3,000 £143.84 £5,178.24
Mr M told 1Plus1 the loan purpose was debt consolidation  in other words, he would use 
the loan to repay other debt. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint. He didnt think that 1Plus1 shouldve 
provided the loan and so he recommended upholding the complaint and set out the steps 
1Plus1 needed to take to put things right.
1Plus1 disagreed with our investigators view. In summary, it mainly said that Mr Ms credit 
file didnt indicate that he was struggling to manage his debt  he was meeting his existing 
credit commitments and no concerns were flagged up so he wasnt considered to be over-
indebted. 
It didnt agree that Mr Ms overall debt level was significant when compared to national 
statistics and said using its loan for debt consolidation meant Mr M would reduce his monthly 
debt costs. 1Plus1 also said he made the loan repayments without difficulty, which he 
couldnt have done if he hadnt been able to meet the repayments sustainably. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. I have also taken into consideration 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time.
Id like to reassure 1Plus1 that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator and I am upholding Mr Ms complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. Ill explain in more detail why I say this.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable 
and proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also find 
out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall 
financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or 
more money problems for a borrower already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way.
1Plus1 asked Mr M about his financial situation, including his income, which it verified by 
doing an electronic check and speaking to his bank.
It asked him about his expenses and carried out some credit checks. 1Plus1 also took into 
account statistical information when comparing Mr Ms declared expenditure against national 
data showing typical spending for someone in a similar situation and was satisfied that 
Mr Ms declared expenses seemed reasonable.
1Plus1 recorded a figure of £1,600 net salary per month. After doing its own background 
checks and allowing for Mr Ms monthly spending after taking its loan and using it to 
consolidate other debt, plus a buffer for emergencies, 1Plus1 worked out that Mr M should 
have been left with a monthly surplus of around £339. So this led 1Plus1 to conclude that the 
loan was affordable for Mr M.
Ive taken carefully into account everything 1Plus1 has said in response to our investigators 
view about the way it assessed affordability. And I've thought carefully about what I think a 
responsible lender should have made of all this information and in particular whether it was 
enough for 1Plus1 to make a fair decision to lend.
Despite its affordability calculation appearing to show that Mr M should have had enough 
disposable income each month to cover the loan repayments, I think 1Plus1 shouldve 
realised this was unlikely, given the picture painted overall by the other information it had 
gathered. And I think 1Plus1 had enough information in front of it to realise that this loan 
wasnt likely to be sustainable for Mr M.
I say this because 1Plus1 was aware that Mr Ms total outstanding credit balances at the 
time amounted to around £19,739. And 1Plus1 had information showing that, by my 
estimate, when he applied for this loan Mr M was already paying more than three quarters of 
his net monthly income just on servicing his debt. 
I think this was worrying information, especially bearing in mind that Mr M had been in his 
job almost two years so hed had a steady income for some time. And throughout this time 
hed been living with his parents and paying just £200 towards food bills but nothing towards 
any of the other usual household expenses. His car loan accounted for less than half his 
total debt. So I think 1Plus1 was aware that Mr M had a significant level of unexplained debt and it shouldve realised that its assumption about the amount of disposable income Mr M 
should have couldnt be relied on.  
As well as this, I think Mr M was paying such a significant proportion of his monthly income 
towards his credit commitments that 1Plus1 couldnt reasonably say that it was likely that he 
would be able to repay its loan in a sustainable way over the loan term. Thats borne out by 
Mr Ms credit history. Our investigator mentioned that most of Mr M's outstanding debt had 
been taken in the four months prior to this loan. He thought, reasonably in my view, that the 
extent of this borrowing, which included payday lending, didnt feel a reasonable amount for 
someone to have taken in such a short space of time and indicated that Mr M had likely 
become reliant on borrowing to maintain his finances. 
I've taken into account that 1Plus1 doesnt agree that Mr Ms debt was excessive. But I've 
noted that it seems to be relying on figures that appear to include mortgage borrowing when 
thinking about average household debt which doesnt reflect Mr Ms particular 
circumstances. So this doesnt affect my view overall that as a single wage earner with very 
limited financial responsibility for essential living costs and no dependants, his overall 
indebtedness did seem high for someone in his circumstances. And I think 1Plus1 should 
have realised that there was no obvious explanation why Mr M should apparently need to 
rely to this extent on obtaining expensive credit.
To my mind, 1Plus1 shouldve been alerted to the risk that it couldnt safely rely on what 
Mr M had told it about how he spent his money. In these circumstances, I dont think it could 
make a fair judgement about sustainability and be satisfied that the loan would be 
sustainably affordable over the loan term.
I've taken into account that 1Plus1 understood that the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation. But 1Plus1 didnt have control over how Mr M used the loan as it paid the loan 
balance to him. And even if Mr M had used this loan to repay some existing debt, I dont 
think 1Plus1 had sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved his overall position 
sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation  
given the relatively small loan amount compared to his outstanding indebtedness overall. 
Even with the planned debt consolidation that 1Plus1 factored into its affordability 
assessment, Mr M would still need to pay around half his take home pay towards servicing 
his debt.  
So I think its fair to say that the indications were that he would most likely remain in serious 
financial trouble regardless and still be dependent on continuing the borrowing pattern 
1Plus1 could see apparent already. 
For all these reasons, I believe that 1Plus1 ought reasonably to have been aware that this 
loan was likely to be detrimental to Mr M and recognised that it shouldnt provide it. 
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything 1Plus1 has said, including 
its detailed responses to our investigators view. I appreciate the time 1Plus1 has spent 
setting out its position in some detail. I acknowledge that 1Plus1 has taken a different view to 
me and if I have not referred to each point raised its because I have nothing further I can 
usefully add to what our investigator has said already. I have concentrated on what 
I consider to be the main points that affect the outcome of this complaint. I hope that setting 
things out as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions.
As Mr M has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that 
he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what 
1Plus1 did wrong.So, 1Plus1 needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Our investigator didnt recommend that 1Plus1 should pay any additional redress. Mr M 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 1Plus1 acted 
unfairly towards Mr M in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress.
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending.
But he has been charged extra for a loan that should not have been provided to him. In line 
with this Services approach, Mr M shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed.
1Plus1 should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of having been given this 
loan. The repayments Mr M made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr M having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then 1Plus1 should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr M.
Whilst its fair that Mr Ms credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So 1Plus1 should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mr Ms credit file regarding the  loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 to deduct tax from this interest. 1Plus1 should 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct 1Plus1 Loans Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman