The complaint
Mr L feels Riverside Underwriting Limited mis-sold him a car hire excess insurance policy.
He says it only covered part of his excess when he expected it to cover the whole amount.
What happened
Mr L took out the car hire excess insurance policy through Riverside because he was hiring
a car abroad. He felt the policy would cover the excess amount, that was payable to the hire
company in the event of a claim.
Unfortunately, Mr L was involved in a motoring incident while driving the hire car. Both the
hire car and another drivers car were damaged in the incident.
Mr L paid the excess to the hire company and then made a claim to Riverside. The
underwriter of the policy  a different company from Riverside  paid Mr L the amount of the
excess that related to his hire car, but it didnt pay the amount that related to the other driver.
Mr L said he believed the policy would cover the whole amount and therefore complained
that the policy had been mis-sold.
Riverside replied to Mr Ls complaint saying that the policy doesnt cover the other driver
because it contains an exclusion for:
Any loss or damage to a third party including bodily injury and property
Mr L didnt think this was right so brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator here looked into Mr Ls concerns, but he felt the policy hadnt been mis-sold.
The investigator said the website Mr L had used to take out the policy contained the
following statement:
Whats excluded

This policy will not pay any claim for third party death injury or property
The investigator felt that shouldve been clear enough for Mr L to have understood the policy 
wouldnt cover loss or damage other than that to his hire car.
Mr L wasnt happy with that, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
I reached a different conclusion from the investigator so issued a provisional decision, which 
I've copied below:
DRN-1990271"I appreciate Riversides website, on very careful reading, talks about covering the excess in
relation to damage to the hired vehicle, saying things like:
This will cover you for the excess you may be liable for in the event your hire car is stolen or 
damaged and In most cases, when the hire car is stolen or damaged youll be liable to pay 
an excess amount before the rental company covers the rest of the cost
But it also refers to the hirer being in an accident, which is what happened here:
Questor Insurance will cover you up to £10,000 for any physical loss or damage so if you
were to have an accident, the rental company may charge you for that damage. For
example, you have to pay £500, you would then claim that back for reimbursement through
us, using our simple online claim form.
Taking out a Car Hire Excess Insurance policy with Questor Insurance will give you peace of 
mind knowing youll be protected for the excess charges you might be liable for with the 
rental company.
I think on reading that many people would reasonably think the whole of the excess is
covered, and its clear to me that Mr L thought that too. If the policy only covers loss or
damage relating to the hire car, and there could be significant losses relating to a third party,
this should be highlighted so a fully informed choice can be made when taking out the policy.
I appreciate the quote page says:
This policy will not pay any claim for third party death injury or property
But my reading of that is that it means theres no statutory third-party cover included within
the policy, and that you ought to ensure you have any such cover included as part of the
hire agreement.
I also note Riverside sells the policy as an alternative to similar cover, that can be purchased 
from hire car companies. They position it as being a superior level of cover at a fraction of 
the price. Yet you can purchase policies from hire car companies which cover the whole 
excess, so a direct comparison in terms of price alone isnt very helpful.
Indeed, I note that in Riversides own comparisons (not on the website) they describe the
cover as Effectively reduces excess to £0 as there is no excess on the reimbursement,
which clearly isnt the case here. I appreciate this isnt something Mr L will have seen but it
gives further credence to the overall picture of confusion.
And Riversides final response letter says:
Our policy is an alternative to the excess insurance offered by your hire company to reduce
your excess liability to zero.
If this was correct, then Mr L wouldnt have been left to cover part of the excess.
I think its also worth me noting that the certificate of insurance Riverside issued to Mr L said
that You should not need to purchase any other excess insurance from the car hire 
company once you have purchased this policy.
In view of all of this I think Mr L quite reasonably thought the policy was designed to cover
the whole excess, so I agree it was mis-sold.Having considered the policy was mis-sold Ive gone on to consider whether its likely Mr L
has lost out as a result. The company he hired the car from offers various levels of excess
protection and Ive seen evidence that you can purchase policies from them which reduce
the excess to zero. Given thats what Mr L wanted to buy, and thought he was buying, I think 
its fair to say he wouldve likely bought such cover. And that means he wouldnt have had to 
pay any of the excess.
Mr L paid an excess of £2,757.09, yet received just £1,175.45 back in his claim. Because I
think the policy was mis-sold, and that had it not been Mr L wouldve had full cover,
Riverside should pay him the difference of £1,581.64, plus interest.
This matter has quite clearly caused Mr L inconvenience, in first disputing the claim and
bringing the complaint. Hes come across as very frustrated in his communications, which I
can fully understand, For that I think he should be compensated with a further payment of
£100."
Mr L replied to say he accepted my provisional decision. Riverside replied to say they don't. 
They consider the exclusion relating to third party damage is made abundantly clear during 
the sales process. Riverside feel if the website is unclear they'd have had complaints like 
this in the past, they say this is not the case.
Riverside says as part of the sale the consumer is provided with the policy terms which they 
also consider to be clear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I don't believe Riverside have really provided any additional evidence or arguments. I 
explained in my provisional decision why I believe the website is misleading and could easily 
end up giving the expectation that the whole excess would be covered.
The website gives an example of someone being in an accident having their excess 
covered. Many accidents involved a third party, yet there's no mention that in such a 
scenario you may only be partially covered - and could be left to pay a substantial excess 
yourself, despite having excess protection.
The website also compares itself directly to excess protection from other companies, 
including the hire car company Mr L used. And I've seen that they offer a product which 
covers the whole excess. So that comparison is misleading and unhelpful.
Indeed, Riverside says in its final response letter that the policy reduces the excess to zero. 
If that were the case then this complaint wouldn't have arisen. And Riverside's internal notes 
says the same. So it seems to me that Riverside aren't clear themselves on what they're 
selling, and it isn't a surprise that Mr L thought he was covered for the whole excess.
I take Riverside's point about not having complaints about this historically. That may be the 
case but that could be for a number of reasons. And it doesn't detract from the issues I've 
found in this case. Riverside say they cover your excess, but they actually only cover part of 
your excess - and this isn't made clear.
In fact, Riverside say You should not need to purchase any other excess insurance from the 
car hire company once you have purchased this policy. But what if, as in this case, you 
want cover for the full excess. You will need to purchase other excess insurance.So I really can't agree that Riverside has been clear. Mr L was looking for a policy which 
would cover him for the whole excess and that's what he thought he was buying from 
Riverside. He wasn't looking for a policy that might cover part of the excess, but that could 
also leave him with an unknown bill of several thousand pounds.
Putting things right
Riverside mis-sold it's partial excess insurance policy to Mr L. Had they been clear it's 
reasonable to find that Mr L wouldn't have bought the policy - because it wasn't providing the 
full cover he was looking for. It's also reasonable to say Mr L would've been able to find a 
policy that covered his whole excess, not least because the hire car company he used sells 
one. So Mr L has suffered a loss as a result of the mis-sale.
Mr L has also been inconvenienced and has found the matter to be very frustrating, 
understandably so.
I require Riverside to settle this matter by paying Mr L:
£1,581.64, plus interest at the rate of 8% per annum simple*, from the date of loss to
the date payment is issued.
£100 compensation for distress and inconvenience unnecessarily caused.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Riverside to deduct tax from this interest. Riverside
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax they deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold Mr L's complaint.
I require Riverside Underwriting Limited to settle the matter as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Will Weston
Ombudsman