DRN-2847964
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
the late Mr H. 
What happened
This complaint is brought by Mrs H and the estate of her late husband, Mr H. It is about a 
credit card PPI policy taken out in 1997. Bank of Scotland sold the late Mr H the policy at the 
same time that he applied for the card by filling in a form. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs H has said about the sale of the PPI to her late husband. But Ive 
decided I dont have enough evidence to say the PPI was mis-sold. In saying this, Ive 
checked through the various ways in which a policy like this might have been mis-sold. But I 
dont see that they apply in this case:
The PPI was set out as a choice on the application form, and the late Mr H ticked to 
say he wanted it. So I think its likely he would have understood it was optional. 
Bank of Scotland says it recommended the PPI to Mr H  and this means we would 
expect a higher standard in its processes: any recommendation would need to be 
suitable for Mr Hs particular situation. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The PPI could have helped 
pay the credit card bill for a period longer than Mr Hs full employment sick pay 
lasted. And it would have paid out at the same time as any sick pay or redundancy 
pay, so leaving Mr H more financially secure for longer. It would have meant Mr H 
wouldnt need to fall back on other resources so soon.  So, overall, the PPI was 
potentially useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  And I cant see any other 
reason why the recommendation was unsuitable. It would  then have been up to 
Mr H to decide whether he wanted to take the PPI.
Its difficult now to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the PPI. Its possible 
the information Bank of Scotland  gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I dont see that fuller information about costs and benefits 
would have affected whether he took the PPI. I say this because, in his 
circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful. 
Mrs H representative has said that the late Mr H received a large inheritance a few years 
later, and so the PPI was then definitely not needed and yet the PPI conintued. She says 
this supports that he had been unaware that the PPI was optional. However, the evidence of 
the application form is that the PPI was clearly presented as optional and Mr H ticked to 
accept it. Also, the evidence from Bank of Scotlands records is that the PPI was cancelled in 
January 2005, even though the credit card account continued until 2011. 
Mrs Hs representative has also said that a similar complaint about PPI to a different bank 
resulted in that complaint being upheld. Weve seen many thousands of PPI complaints at 
the Ombudsman Service, and there are very many ways in which PPI could have been mis-
sold. For example, a bank may decide it mis-sold PPI because of the particular sales 
processes it had at the time, or certain terms and conditions that were in its PPI policy at the 
time of sale that were unfair or unsuitable for a particular customer. But Ive just looked at 
the particular circumstances of the sale by Bank of Scotland to the late Mr H in 1997. 
So, as Ive said, Ive not cncluded that the PPI was mis-sold.This means Bank of Scotland 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI. But Bank of Scotland has paid back some 
of the cost of the PPI to the estate of Mr H because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because Bank of Scotland 
didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to the estate of Mr H.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, and so Im 
not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman