DRN-3304427
The complaint
Mr B complains that AJ Bell Securities Limited didnt give him the information he needed 
about a company demerger. As a result, he says he sold shares in the parent company and 
didnt receive the demerger share entitlement. He wants AJ Bell to compensate him for the 
loss he says hes made.
What happened
Mr B has an execution only ISA stocks and shares account with AJ Bell. He had a holding of 
shares in a company which I will refer to as K. In or around October 2019, K announced a 
demerger. Mr B understood that to be eligible to receive new shares, which I will refer to as 
C, he had to have a shareholding recorded on the share register on the record date of 
19 November 2019.
Mr B sold some of his K shares on 20 November 2019  a day after the record date. But he 
says he then found out he had to be registered up until the ex-date to receive his 
entitlement to C shares. The ex-date was originally intended to be 26 November, but this 
was moved to 21 November. Mr B says AJ Bell confirmed, after hed sold the shares, that 
selling K shares on 20 November wouldnt affect his eligibility because hed sold after the 
record date. But when C shares were allocated, he didnt receive the share entitlement for 
the shares hed sold.
He complained to AJ Bell. He said it should have communicated the ex-date to him.
AJ Bell said it was obliged to provide Mr B with accurate information about corporate actions. 
It said it couldnt verify the accuracy of the information about the ex-date, so it didnt make 
Mr B aware of it.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
AJ Bells procedure was to ensure that any information it passed to its clients was dual 
sourced and that the ex-date hadnt been verified so it didnt communicate it to Mr B. She 
didnt think AJ Bell had done anything wrong and that it wasnt responsible for any financial 
loss Mr B suffered.
Mr B didnt agree. He replied in detail to say, in summary, that:
AJ Bell received information about the ex-date from the London Stock Exchange. Yet it 
doesnt consider this to be an official source.
AJ Bell did not recognise the significance or relevance of the ex-date.
AJ Bell has contributed to his financial loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules 
allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Having considered everything very carefully, I have come to the same conclusion as the 
investigator for the following reasons:
Mr B has an execution only trading account with AJ Bell. This means AJ Bell did not provide 
advice to Mr B about Ks demerger.
But AJ Bell was obliged to tell Mr B about the demerger, so he knew about the change to his 
shareholding.
The record date was announced, and remained, as 19 November. And this date was 
communicated to Mr B by AJ Bell. This should have been the date which Mr B had to be 
recorded on the share register to receive C shares. After Mr B had sold K shares, he 
checked eligibility with AJ Bell. And I dont think it was unreasonable, based on the 
information provided by K at that point, that AJ Bell told him he was still eligible to receive C 
shares. 
It was only after the record date, and after Mr B had sold his shares, that K announced  on 
26 November  that, For the avoidance of doubt, if any K shareholder held K shares within 
the CREST system on the Record Date and did not sell any K shares until 21 November 
2019 onwards, then that K shareholder will receive C shares.
Whilst 21 November (and in earlier communications 26 November) had been labelled as the 
ex-date, this wasnt clear. These dates actually referred to the expected date for the 
completion of the merger.
I find the lack of clarity, and the change of dates, werent AJ Bells responsibility. It acted on 
a best endeavours basis, in passing on the information it was able to verify.
AJ Bell didnt provide Mr B with the ex-date, or with a link to any information that contained 
the ex-date. But, whilst the dates were in a London Stock Exchange notice, AJ Bell hadnt 
been able to validate them with K, or with any other source such as CREST. In the 
circumstances, I dont find AJ Bell acted unreasonably here, particularly as the dates did 
change.
In order to uphold this complaint, I would need to find that AJ Bell had provided misleading 
information to Mr B. But I dont find that it did. It was only obliged to notify Mr B about the 
demerger, which it did, based on the information provided by K. And whilst it gave him wrong 
information when he called, this was after Mr B had already sold his shares and before K 
issued clarification about the dates.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman