DRN-2978959
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain Jardine Motors Limited mis-sold them alloy wheel insurance.
What happened
In 2017 Mr and Mrs B purchased a new car from Jardine. It had black and yellow alloy 
wheels. Jardine also sold them an alloy wheel insurance policy. The provider of the 
insurance is a different firm. 
In February 2020 Mr and Mrs B made a claim on the policy. One of their alloy wheels had 
been damaged. They werent happy with the response from the insurer. It said it would 
repair the damage but couldnt guarantee an exact colour match.  After the repair 
Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied with the finish. 
Mr and Mrs B feel Jardine mis-sold the insurance policy. They feel it wasnt suitable for its 
intended purpose as it didnt guarantee an identical match when repairing any damage. 
Jardine responded to a complaint from Mr and Mrs B. It said the policy hadnt been mis-sold. 
But it offered, as a gesture of goodwill, to refund what they had paid for the cover - £149. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept that. To resolve the complaint they have asked for £700. 
Our investigator felt the policy had been mis-sold. She recommended, along with the refund 
of the policy premium, Jardine should pay Mr and Mrs B £200 compensation to recognise 
distress and inconvenience it had caused them. They accepted that proposal. But Jardine 
didnt agree to pay the compensation. So the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
In February 2022 I issued a provisional decision for the complaint. I explained why I intended 
to come to a different outcome to the investigator. I said I didnt intend to require Jardine to 
pay Mr and Mrs Bs any additional compensation. My reasons for taking that position form 
part of this final decision. So Ive copied them in below. 
I asked Mr and Mrs B and Jardine to provide any further comments or information for me to 
consider before issuing a final decision. Jardine didnt provide anything. Mr and Mrs B 
thanked me for the provisional decision - but said they werent happy with it. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Jardine recommended Mr and Mrs B take out the policy. They feel it was mis-sold as 
it wasnt suitable for their needs. But even if I accept it was, I dont intend to require 
Jardine to pay them any compensation or do anything differently.  
In line with this services approach Ive considered what would most likely have 
happened if there hadnt been a mis-sale. In this case, if Jardine hadnt 
recommended it, I think Mr and Mrs B probably wouldnt have taken out the policy  
or any other alloy wheel insurance. So they wouldnt have paid for the insurance. 
Mr and Mrs B have said they would have chosen silver alloys, rather than their yellow 
ones if they hadnt been recommended the cover. But Im not persuaded by that. It 
seems they choose the yellow ones before being offered the cover. So I dont see 
why they would have made a different colour choice had they not been 
recommended the insurance.
Jardines already offered to refund the £149 cost of the policy. So effectively putting 
Mr and Mrs B back in the position they would have been had it not recommended the 
policy. 
Our investigator felt Jardine should pay Mr and Mrs B a further £200 to recognise 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience resulting from a mis-sale. Im not going to 
require it to pay that or any other amount of compensation. There may have been 
some distress or inconvenience for Mr and Mrs B with this issue. But I feel, having 
the wheel repaired under the insurance policy, alongside a refund of what they paid 
for it, is already enough to make up for that. 
Ive seen photos of the wheel before and after the insurers repair. Mr and Mrs B 
arent happy with the work. They say it isnt a perfect match. I accept it may not be 
when observed in certain conditions. But overall it looks a reasonable repair to me. 
So having considered all the circumstances, I dont intend to require Jardine to pay 
Mr and Mrs B any compensation or do anything differently. If it hasnt done so 
already, Jardine should honour its offer to refund the cost of the policy.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent been provided with any new information. So I dont see any reason to change the 
position I took in my provisional decision. That means Im not going to require Jardine to pay 
Mr and Mrs B any compensation or do anything differently. 
Mr and Mrs B indicated they would like to accept the offer of a refund of their policy 
premium. They should contact Jardine to arrange payment. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Jardine Motor Limited to pay Mr and Mrs B any 
additional compensation or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman