DRN-1822596
 
The complaint
The estate of Mr W ('the estate') is represented by its executor ('the executor'). The executor 
(who is also the sole beneficiary of the estate) says HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First 
Direct) unreasonably refused to execute his instruction, on behalf of the estate, to liquidate 
the shareholdings of the late Mr W; and that, upon his resubmission of the instruction, it 
unreasonably delayed the liquidation.
What happened
The executor helpfully provided a chronology of key events, including the following:
1. The late Mr W unfortunately passed away in February 2019. In March 2019 the executor 
contacted the First Direct Bereavement Team and in the same month he provided First 
Direct with a copy of the Death Certificate and a certified copy of the relevant will.
2. The executor applied for Probate in early April 2019 and a few days thereafter he - in his 
capacity as executor of the estate - instructed First Direct to liquidate the relevant 
shareholdings based on the documentation submitted in March. He says he stressed his 
wish to safeguard the holding's value at the time and that the proceeds did not have to be 
passed to him until Probate had been granted. First Direct declined his request and said the 
instruction could not be accepted/executed until Probate had been granted. The executor 
repeated the same request in June 2019 and First Direct gave the same response.
3. On 1 August 2019 the executor received the Grant of Probate ('GOP') in the mail and 
immediately forwarded it to First Direct (and a copy to his solicitor) by the First Class pre-
paid envelop that had been provided by First Direct.
4. First Direct says it received the GOP in its processing centre on 6 August 2019 - three 
working days later. The shareholdings were liquidated on 7 August 2019.
The executor says First Direct's position in April (repeated in June and retained until August) 
was inherently unreasonable; that it wilfully defeated his pursuit to safeguard the values of 
the holdings; that First Direct had enough - in the form of the death certificate and the will 
(with the latter establishing he was both executor and sole beneficiary of the estate (and 
therefore the shareholdings)) - to have executed his liquidation instruction; that he made it 
clear remittance of the proceeds could await the GOP; that as a firm engaged in stock 
dealing it would have known that stock values are subject to changes over time and known 
about the importance of liquidating the holdings without delay; that reference can be made to 
evidence from competitor firms who confirm that, in the same circumstances, they would 
have executed the instruction; and that First Direct's position caused the estate a loss in the 
liquidated value of the shareholdings.
The executor also says the liquidation in August was wrongly delayed by First Direct; that his 
solicitor received the GOP copy on 2 August so First Direct probably received the original 
GOP on the same date but prolonged its internal processing of it until 6 August (before then liquidating the holdings on 7 August); that the holdings lost  further liquidated value between 
2 and 7 August; and that First Direct caused this loss too.
First Direct disputes the executor's claims. In the main, it says its position in April (and June) 
was defined by its policy not to accept the liquidation instruction - especially given the 
substantial size/value of the total shareholding - until the relevant GOP had been issued and 
submitted to it; that receipt of the GOP was essential as it legally validated the late Mr W's 
will; and that all mail receipts are directed to its processing centre to be scanned and 
redirected to the relevant department, so the estate's GOP was directed to the processing 
centre on 6 August and by 7 August it had been scanned unto its system, redirected to the 
relevant department and used as the basis to execute the liquidation.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld - for reasons broadly similar to  those given by First Direct. The executor did not 
accept this outcome and he asked for an ombudsman's decision.
In the main, he maintained his previous core arguments and he argued further that First 
Direct's submissions (and policy) appeared to have been accepted by this service without 
being tested; that we should establish whether (or not) First Direct owed "... a duty of care to 
the proposed executors and/or estate ..." - if so, we should then establish whether (or not) 
it breached this duty by declining his instructions in April and June; that due weight should 
be given to evidence that competitor firms would have accepted the instructions; that it is 
more probable (than not) that First Direct received the GOP on 2 August, so the liquidation 
should have happened on that date; and that, in the alternative and in the context of time 
sensitive stock dealing, the liquidation should have happened on 6 August, at the latest, 
when First Direct admits the GOP was in its possession.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I do not uphold the 
complaint and I agree with the overall reasoning expressed by First Direct and by the 
investigator.
I accept the executor's argument about the time sensitive nature of stock/share dealing, his 
argument that First Direct should have been acutely aware of this and his argument that an 
instruction to sell shares must be viewed in this context, in the context of share prices 
changing over time and essentially in the overall context of a firm's 'best execution' duty.
However, the estate's instruction was not a straightforward one directly from an account 
holder. It was one defined by the fact that an entity other than the account holder (the late Mr 
W himself) - that entity being the estate - had submitted it. The question that arises is about 
the basis upon which First Direct could reasonably have been expected to comply with such 
an instruction.
 In broad terms, a deceased's will expresses his/her wishes for his/her estate and it can also 
stipulate who is to be the executor of the estate. However, the effect of a GOP is to grant the 
executor (or, as the case might be, the administrator) the legal right/authority to deal 
with and administer the assets within the estate.
The decision (and policy) applied by First Direct to the executor's instructions in April and 
June, had the effect of ensuring it did not allow the executor to  deal with or administer the 
estate's shareholdings until he had the legal right and authority to do so - with that legal authority established through the GOP. Given the legal purpose of a GOP - as summarised 
above - this was not an unreasonable position for First Direct to adopt.
At best, the executor's reference to competitor firms adopting a different position, in principle 
(or practice), on the matter suggests that First Direct might have had discretion to do the 
same. However, it was not bound by its competitors' practices and it was not obliged to 
compromise what appears to have been its decision to abide by the full purpose of the GOP. 
This conclusion might have differed in the face of evidence that First Direct had applied 
comparable discretion elsewhere, but I have not seen such evidence in this case.
On balance and for the reasons given above, I am not persuaded that First Direct was wrong 
to have declined the executor's instructions in April and June.
In terms of the events in August, I consider that the executor is sincere in saying he sent the 
GOP on 1 August and that his solicitor received the GOP copy on the following date (2 
August). It is indeed possible that the GOP was physically delivered to First Direct on a 
working day before 6 August (perhaps 2 or 5 August 2019) but I accept evidence that it was 
not treated in its processing centre until 6 August. This was within three working days from 
the GOP being sent. Overall and on balance, I do not consider the progression from dispatch 
to receipt to processing over three working days to have been an undue delay.
For the reasons mentioned earlier above - related to a firm's best execution duty - I 
understand the executor's argument about First Direct liquidating the holdings on 6 August 
at the latest. However, such action could not reasonably have been expected from its mail 
processing centre - which is where the GOP was on this date. First Direct's evidence is that 
processing can take up to 24 hours - which does not sound unlikely or unreasonable - so, on 
balance, I accept that the GOP for the liquidation instruction reached the relevant 
department by the following date (7 August). The liquidation took place on the same date. 
Overall and on balance, I do not consider that this sequence of events was unreasonable. 
Best (and timely) execution could be expected where a firm has been given a direct dealing 
instruction that can be executed without delay or notice that such an instruction is in transit 
and should be executed, where possible, immediately (or as soon as possible) upon arrival. 
Neither was the case in August 2019 in this complaint, especially as the GOP first had to 
undergo due process before it served as a basis to liquidate the holdings.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold the estate's complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask the estate of Mr W to accept or reject 
my decision before 19 June 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman