DRN-3294243
The complaint
Mr R complains National Savings and Investments werent helpful in assisting him locate his 
investment. As a result, hes lost out. To resolve matters, hed like compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused and for this figure to reflect the loss of the opportunity to 
buy a property. 
What happened
In summary, Mr R invested £10,000 with NS&I in December 2020  he did so over the 
telephone. He didnt get any details about his investment but says he wasnt overly 
concerned as he was confident NS&I had got his money.
Later, Mr R decided to check how his investment was doing. But he couldnt find it. He tried 
NS&Is online platform and called its customer services department repeatedly but neither 
resulted in a trace. Mr R became increasingly concerned about the whereabouts of his 
money.
Mr R says that when he spoke with NS&I it could see something relating to him, but it 
wouldnt tell him what that was, and this made him feel very anxious. NS&I also told Mr R 
that he hadnt updated his address, but he says this wasnt correct. 
Mr R raised a complaint about his missing investment and the customer service he received. 
Because every-time he called he says he had to repeat himself, which was not only 
frustrating but distressing. 
NS&I issued its final response on 27 August 2021. It said, it hadnt been able to locate Mr 
Rs investment with the information hed provided. However, it would now need more 
information to do a detailed search so, asked him to complete some tracing forms, which it 
said it had enclosed. It also sent him a cheque for £30 to apologise for not doing more over 
the phone to find his investment.  
Mr R says he got the cheque, but he had no idea what this related to as there was no cover 
letter and his name had been spelt incorrectly. And that when he got NS&Is response there 
werent any tracing forms attached. He said the situation affected his blood pressure. He 
says he told NS&I that he wished to use the money towards a deposit for a property 
purchase. So, for him this matter was urgent, and he was growing concerned about a 
possible fraud.  
Mr R referred his complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into it. He upheld it. He 
was satisfied NS&I hadnt provided a good level of service. He noted that NS&I had been in 
touch with us to say that it had failed to update Mr Rs address and that it should have done 
more to help with the trace.  He also noted that NS&I had now agreed to pay £200 (which 
was inclusive of the £30 it had sent) to cover what had gone wrong and send out another set 
of forms, which would help with tracing and getting Mr R access. The investigator felt this 
was reasonable in the circumstances, given that Mr R could have also contacted NS&I to tell 
it there werent any forms and re-requested these.  And the investigator didnt think he could 
fairly award anything for Mr Rs losing out on buying a property because he said this hadnt 
progressed as far as him making a mortgage application. So, this wasnt a persuasive loss.   
Mr R didnt agree. He said, he was still no further forward in locating his money and this was 
extremely worrying. He needed this to be sorted out. He added £200 wasnt enough 
particularly as his health had been impacted and he couldnt sensibly make a mortgage 
application because a lender would need proof of a deposit. However, this was impossible 
while he couldnt find or access his investment. He added that the information NS&I had 
sought via the forms had also been provided previously over the phone etc. He asked the 
investigator to reconsider his complaint. 
The investigator assessed things further and Mr R got the tracing forms in March 2022. He 
completed and returned these. Shortly afterwards he confirmed hed acquired access to his 
investment and pointed out that he had been without this for 482 days (since December 
2020, when hed invested).
Our investigator reconsidered the case and recommended that NS&I increase its offer of 
compensation to £300, in view of the difficulties Mr R had had in being reunited with his 
investment, as he believed NS&I could have been more proactive here. But he maintained 
Mr R needed to have completed the forms and reiterated that he didnt think any 
compensation was warranted for Mr R being unable to buy a property as there was no 
evidence of a mortgage application. NS&I accepted that view. But Mr R did not. He stressed 
the impact this situation had had on him  he provided information about the state of his 
health which he considered was a direct consequence of what had happened. The 
investigator didnt change his mind. So, the matter has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that there were issues around NS&I updating Mr Rs address (its accepted that), 
including whether it had his active email address. NS&I said any account details would have 
been sent to the email address it held on its systems. But I think the real problems arose 
once Mr R tried to trace his investment and couldnt  this was around July 2021.  This 
should have been a straightforward matter, in that NS&I needed previous address history 
and a change of address. It accepts it could have done more in some respects when it spoke 
to him over the phone and didnt.  
That said, I can also understand why NS&I would in these circumstances physically want the 
tracing forms back to verify that information and other details too. Its disappointing that the 
forms werent enclosed with the final response letter, and I have no reason to conclude that 
they were. As well as this, there was also a mistake with how Mr Rs name was spelt on the 
cheque hed been sent. So, faced with all of this, I can see why Mr R felt frustrated and 
distressed about the whereabouts of his investment. 
But ultimately the key to unlocking this problem was the tracing forms. NS&I told Mr R what 
he needed to do in its letter of August 2021, and so he knew this information upon receipt of 
the letter. So while it failed to enclose the forms, theres no reason why Mr R or someone on 
his behalf couldnt have asked for the forms again and if necessary continued to follow up on 
this until he eventually got them, particularly given his concerns about needing to locate and 
access the investment.
Mr R has said hed been without access to his funds for 482 days, but he didnt enquire 
about them until around July 2021. So up to this point he would have been unaware there 
would be a problem and so there would have been little or no impact on him during that time.Once the situation came to light, I dont doubt this was distressing for Mr R and his stress 
levels would have been heightened at times, especially when he didnt feel he was getting 
anywhere with NS&I initially. But upon receipt of NS&Is letter he knew what it needed and 
why. It might have taken NS&Is tracing department some time to complete the trace but in 
getting the forms and sending them back it would have got the process started and 
reassured Mr R. So overall  I think the actual impact is reflected in the figure of £300.
Ive thought about what Mr R has said about not being able to buy a property. While I 
appreciate the reasons hes given for not applying for a mortgage, I would expect to see 
some tangible evidence that he was actively viewing properties and had gone as far as 
entering into discussions about buying something and/or started an application. Anything 
less than that isnt persuasive in my view. Even noting this the key to resolving this was 
getting and returning the forms, which he could have reasonably followed up (until he got 
them) given the urgency hes described. And of course, Mr R can still buy a property. 
Taking all of these points together, I find NS&I should have made fewer mistakes and been 
more helpful, but Mr R could have also mitigated the situation. So, overall, I consider its offer 
of £300 is fair and reasonable. So, it follows that I am not going to ask it to pay any more 
than that. 
NS&I should arrange to put a stop on the cheque for £30 (if it hasnt already done so). 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct National Savings and Investments 
to pay Mr R £300 to settle his complaint  this being reflective of the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman