DRN-4384585
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Startline 
Motor Finance Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
Mr A has been represented during the claim and complaint process by Ms W.  For ease of 
reference, I will refer to any comments made, or any action taken, by either Mr A or Ms W as 
Mr A throughout the decision.
What happened
In December 2022, Mr A was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Startline. He paid a £4,000 deposit and the agreement was for £11,163.95 over 30 
months, with 29 monthly payments of £470.83 and a final payment of £480.83. At the time of 
supply, the car was just over four years old, and had done 29,896 miles (according to the 
MOT record of 8 November 2022).
Mr A started to have problems with the car in March 2023, after hed travelled around 2,500 
miles. He took the car to a manufacturers garage local to him (as the supplying dealership 
was some distance away) and it was recommended the car was serviced, despite it having 
been serviced just before it was supplied to him. As part of this service, Mr A was told the 
anti-roll bars and engine control unit (ECU) needed to be replaced.
Work was completed on the car in May 2023, but the faults persisted. A further investigation 
was carried out in June 2023, which found that the ECU had been replaced, as had multiple 
sensors, but repairs had been carried out poorly. At an inspection that took place a few 
weeks later, it was reported that the engine had been rebuilt, that repairs had been poorly 
completed, and that the engine needed stripping down to identify the root cause of the ECU 
issues. Following this, Mr A stopped using the car.
Mr A had complained to Startline, but they didnt uphold his complaint, saying that the issues 
with the car had been repaired. So, Mr A brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for investigation.
Our investigator said, based on the evidence hed seen, that there was a fault with the car 
which made it of an unsatisfactory quality when supplied. Given the repairs that had already 
taken place, with no success, the investigator said that Mr A should now be allowed to reject 
the car, and Startline needed to put things right.
The investigator recommended that Startline end the agreement and take back the car; 
refund the deposit and any payments Mr A made after he stopped using the car; reimburse 
him for the cost of repairs and inspections hes incurred (all with statutory interest); and pay 
Mr A an additional £500 for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr A accepted the investigators recommendations. Startline said they were attempting to 
liaise with the supplying dealership to obtain their testimony prior to responding. However, 
despite being given ample opportunity to do this, and being provided with evidence of the 
repair and inspection costs they asked for, Startline failed to respond. As such, this matter 
has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Where evidence has been incomplete 
or contradictory, Ive reached my view on the balance of probabilities  what I think is most 
likely to have happened given the available evidence and wider circumstances.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr A was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Startline are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Startline can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr A to show it was present when the 
car was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr A took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Startline to put this right.
Ive seen evidence that the car was initially serviced by the supplying dealership on 8 
November 2022, when the car had done 29,894 miles. The vehicle handover form, signed by 
Mr A on 8 December 2022, also details that this service took place. However, the car was 
serviced again by a manufacturers garage on 23 March 2023, at the cost of £219, following 
warning lights becoming illuminated.
The March 2023 service took place after Mr A had been in possession of the car for less 
than four months, and when the car had been driven for less than 3,000 miles. Neither of 
these are service intervals recommended by the manufacturer. Whats more, the March 
2023 service indicated issues with the ECU and the anti-roll bars. Given the time the car had 
been in Mr As possession, and the mileage hed done, I consider it more likely than not that 
these issues were present or developing when the car was supplied.
Ive seen evidence that the ECU was replaced by the manufacturers garage on 22 March 
2023, and its my understanding this was covered by the warranty. The anti-roll bars were 
replaced on 17 May 2023, when the car had done 34,969 miles. Its my understanding that 
this work wasnt covered by the warranty, and Mr A had to pay £288.70 for this work. Finally, an O2 sensor was replaced under warranty on 26 May 2023, when the car had still done 
34,969 miles.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied the dealership were happy for the garage to deal with 
the issues with the car, due to the garage being substantially nearer to Mr As home than the 
dealership was.
Section 24(5) of the CRA says a consumer who has  the right to reject may only exercise 
[this] and may only do so in one of these situations  (a) after one repair or replacement, the 
goods do not confirm to contract. This is known as the single chance of repair. And this 
applies to all issues with the goods, and to all repairs i.e., its not a single chance of repair for 
the dealership AND a single chance of repair for Startline  the first attempted repair is the 
single chance at repair. Whats more, if a different fault arises after a previous repair, even if 
those faults arent related, the single chance of repair has already happened  its not a 
single chance of repair per fault.
In these circumstances, Im satisfied that the replacement of the ECU, and the subsequent 
replacement of the anti-roll bars, by the manufacturers garage, qualifies as the single 
chance of repair under the CRA.
Mr A continued to complain that the faults with the car continued to reoccur. Ive seen a 
report by an independent garage dated 14 June 2023 which said carry out investigation into 
engine fault  vehicle taken for test drive with EML [engine management light] illuminated 
 managed to reset EML road test again  light stayed off. This diagnosis and repair 
cost Mr A £120. However, a report by the same garage the following day said carry out 
investigation to EML  found [O2] sensor looks as if already been replaced sensor has 
been cable tied to coolant hose and connection had been tapped [sic] together.
Mr A had the car inspected again on 27 June 2023, when the car had done 36,994 miles, at 
the cost of £54. This report says customer bought the car to us for diagnostics we have 
found ecu has been replaced from main dealers. 02 sensor resistor has been replaced 
several times and when we checked the rocker cover it looked like the whole engine been re 
build there I believe who ever re build the engine they have done some thing wrong in there. 
Order to find out will have to strip the engine and find out from there
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the repairs to the car had failed, and the faults 
remained. Im also satisfied that this made the car of an unsatisfactory quality when 
supplied. And, in these circumstances, Mr A should be able to reject the car.
Putting things right
The mileage record detailed above shows that Mr A was able to drive the car while it was in 
his possession. Because of this, I think its only fair that he pays for this usage. However, Mr 
A stopped using the car on 27 June 2023, after the inspection report of that date. Given the 
contents of that report, I dont consider this to be an unreasonable course of action.
As, for the reasons given, Im satisfied the car has been off the road since 27 June 2023 due 
to it being of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied, and as Mr A hasnt been 
provided with a courtesy car to keep him mobile; Im satisfied Startline should refund the 
payments he made during this period.
Mr A has also provided evidence of the £681.70 costs hes incurred in repairing the car / 
having the car inspected. And, given that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when 
supplied, I think its only fair that Startline reimburse these costs.Finally, its clear that Mr A has been severely inconvenienced by whats happened, 
especially with having no transportation while the car was being inspected and repaired. And 
hes had to pay alternate transport costs during this period, while still maintaining payments 
to Startline. So, I think Startline should compensate him for this. 
The investigator had recommended Startline pay Mr A £500, which is in line with what I 
wouldve directed had no recommendation been made. So, I see no compelling reason not 
to adopt this as part of my final decision.
Therefore, if they havent already done so, Startline should:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr A;
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr As credit file;
refund the £4,000 deposit Mr A paid (if any part of this deposit is made up of funds 
paid through a dealer contribution, Startline is entitled to retain that proportion of the 
deposit);
refund the payments Mr A has made since 27 June 2023;
reimburse Mr A £681.70 for the repair and inspection costs hes incurred;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds, calculated from the date Mr A made 
the payment to the date of the refund; and
pay Mr A an additional £500 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Startline to take off tax from this interest. Startline must 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr As complaint about Startline Motor Finance Limited. 
And they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman