DRN-1095501
Complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained to us that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy in November 2000.
They say they didnt realise theyd the bought the policy and didnt need it.
Background
Mr and Mrs C bought the policy when they applied for a mortgage.
Only Mr C had the MPPI cover and the policy provided cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Because Mr and Mrs C disagree, 
their complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of payment protection insurance on our website and Ive taken 
this into account in deciding in this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C have told us that they bought the policy at a meeting in branch. They say they 
cant remember if it was recommended to them.  But Lloyds says it made a recommendation 
that they should buy the cover. That means Lloyds needed to make sure that the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs Cs situation and that the information it gave them about the cover 
was clear, fair and not misleading.
Ive then looked at the available paperwork from the sale. Ive seen that when they 
applied for their mortgage, Mr and Mrs C ticked a box on their mortgage application to show 
they wanted to take out PPI cover with their mortgage. They then went on to complete a 
separate application form for the policy. On the form, they filled in a box to show they wanted 
100% coverage for their mortgage costs. They then both signed the form and also filled out a 
direct debit instruction so that the payments for the cover could be taken from their bank. All 
of this makes me think that Mr and Mrs C would have known they had a choice about 
whether or not to buy PPI.
The MPPI seems to have been right for Mr and Mrs C based on what Ive seen of 
their circumstances at the time. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr C wasnt eligible 
for the cover or wouldve been affected by any of the main policy exclusions.
Mr C said he had some sick pay available from his employer if he was unable to work due to 
sickness. Mr and Mrs C also said that a family member would have been able to help them 
to make monthly repayments if necessary. They also said they had savings in an ISA 
account. The MPPI wouldve paid out on top of Mr Cs sick pay and for longer, up to a total of 12 
months if he couldnt work due to accident or sickness, or if he lost his job. Whilst its always 
reassuring to have family members who might be able to help, its not something that can 
necessarily always be relied on as anyones circumstances can easily change. Having this 
cover would also mean they didnt have to dip into their ISA account and lose the benefits of 
having the account. So overall I think the policy wouldve been useful to them.
In taking out a mortgage, Mr and Mrs C were taking on a major financial commitment. If 
they couldnt work they would suffer a significant fall in income and be at risk of losing their 
home. So I think the policy wouldve been a definite help to Mr and Mrs C at what could be a 
difficult time financially.
The policy cost around £61 per month and would cover Mr and Mrs Cs monthly mortgage 
payments. Ive no way of knowing if Mr and Mrs C knew about the cost of the policy when 
they bought it. I also dont know if they wouldve read the policy documentation that wouldve 
been sent to them after the amount they were borrowing had been finalised and the policy 
had started. But from the paperwork I dont think Mr and Mrs C wouldve had difficulty 
meeting the monthly premiums.
I can see its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy 
was sold. But, having looked at the sale carefully, I think Mr and Mrs C would still have 
decided to buy the policy if theyd been better advised and informed.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against Lloyds Bank 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman