DRN-3024904
The complaint
Mrs H complains that a payment she sent from her account with Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax went astray, and Halifax hasnt done enough to get it back. 
What happened
Mrs H made a payment of £1,089.81 for insurance, to an overseas company. She then 
discovered that the insurer couldnt provide the required cover, and an outdated BIC (Bank 
Identifier Code) had been used, so she asked Halifax to get the money back. 
But Mrs H thought that Halifax was asking the wrong bank for the money back. She said 
shed contacted the bank that Halifax was asking, and it had told her where her money had 
gone, but Halifax just refused to contact that bank instead.
Halifax said it had made some mistakes in dealing with Mrs Hs complaint, and it offered her 
£50 to say sorry for that, which she refused. But Halifax didnt think it had made mistakes in 
trying to recall the money. It said that the bank that the BIC code identified (which Ill refer to 
as N) just hadnt responded to its efforts to recall this payment. It had contacted the bank 
that the IBAN (International Bank Account Number) referred to (which Ill refer to as A). A 
said it hadnt received this money, it also thought it had been sent to N. So A tried to contact 
N too. But N didnt respond to that contact either.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that although the 
IBAN belongs to one bank, A, the BIC identifies another, N. Halifax has tried to recall the 
money from N, but it hasnt received a response. Halifax has also contacted A, and that bank 
did respond, to say that the payment wouldve been routed to the bank identified by the BIC. 
A told Halifax that it has also tried to get N, the bank identified by the BIC, to respond, and 
again, it hasnt done so. 
Our investigator said that she understood this was a lot of money and Mrs H hadnt got it 
back. But she said that this wasnt Halifaxs fault, so it cant be held responsible for this. She 
knew that Mrs H would be disappointed, but she said Halifax had shown us it had tried a 
number of times to get the money back, and hadnt succeeded.
Mrs H didnt agree. She said that having eliminated one bank, it was clear that the other 
bank must hold the funds. She said she had been in contact by telephone and email, and the 
overseas bank had told her it would arrange a refund when it was contacted by the Halifax. 
Mrs H asked why Halifax couldnt telephone or email this bank. She didnt think that all 
reasonable steps had yet been taken to try to recover her money. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said that when a customer makes a mistake, 
the bank will try to get the money back for them. And she said Halifax had sent us evidence 
to show it had tried, in this case. Our investigator said that A has confirmed it wasnt the 
recipient of Mrs Hs money. And N wouldnt reply to Halifax, or to A. 
Our investigator asked Mrs H which overseas bank had confirmed that it would arrange a 
refund, once it had been contacted by Halifax, and if she would send us the evidence she 
had that this bank had received her money. Mrs H didnt reply. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall decision on this complaint as our investigator. 
I can see that Mrs H has spoken to her insurers current bank, which isnt either A or N. That 
bank thought that A would have this money. But I can also see, as our investigator set out, 
that Halifax has asked both A and N about this money. A says N has it. And N simply isnt 
responding to enquiries, either from Halifax or from A.
I do think that Halifax has tried to get this money back for Mrs H. And another overseas 
bank, A, has also tried to help with that. Neither one has received a reply. I know Mrs H 
thinks Halifax should just pick up the phone and contact N. I can see it has tried, and that 
hasnt helped either.
Im very sorry to have to tell Mrs H that I think Halifax has done all it can reasonably be 
expected to do at this point. I understand that this will be deeply disappointing for her, and 
its natural for her to think that there must be a way to get her money back. But a small 
number of overseas bank transfers do go wrong, including where, as here, the customer has 
made a mistake. And when they do, the sending bank is entirely reliant on the cooperation of 
the receiving bank, to get that money back. Neither Halifax nor I can compel that bank to 
cooperate. 
I know that Mrs H will be deeply disappointed, but I dont think her complaint about Halifax 
should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman