DRN-2289462
The complaint
Mr S complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited ended.
What happened
Mr S was supplied with a car under an agreement with VWFS. As the end of the contract 
was approaching, Mr S took the car to a VW authorised dealer to have it serviced and 
inspected for damage, which he paid to have repaired. The car was then returned at the end 
of the agreement.
VWFS later asked Mr S to pay charges for damage which it said went beyond fair wear and 
tear.
Mr S disputed the charges. He said hed been told by VWFS to take the car for a pre return 
inspection at a VW dealership to have any minor damage corrected, which hed done. Mr S 
says that in response, VWFS told him that the dealership used different standards to the 
company who inspected the car when it was returned.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. He doesnt think its fair that hes been asked to 
pay charges because he did as VWFS advised him to do.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. he thought the damage went beyond fair wear 
and tear according to the relevant guidelines and said VWFs hadnt acted unfairly. He also 
said he couldnt hold VWFS responsible for what the VW dealership had said, or the 
standards it corrected the damage to.
Mr S didnt agree. He said it wasnt fair that VWFS had told him to have the car checked at a 
VW dealership and then say that the standards were different.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr S must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in deciding whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear.
I understand that Mr Ss complaint isnt about whether the damage exceeds fair wear and 
tear. But Id like to confirm that Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos and I 
agree with the investigator that the damage exceeds fair wear and tear having regard to the 
relevant BVLRA guidelines. On that basis, I think the charges have been applied fairly.
The nub of Mr Ss complaint is that he says he was advised by VWFS to use a VW dealer to 
have the car checked for damage, and that he was told by the VW dealership that there 
were no issues and that he shouldnt received any charges from VWFS. Hes also unhappy 
that VWFS subsequently told him that the standards used by the VW dealership wouldnt be 
the same as the BVLRA guidelines applied by the inspector at the end of the contract.
This service has asked VWFS whether it had any prior contact with Mr S before the car was 
collected and inspected at the end of the agreement. VWFS has said it didnt. So, its not 
clear who told Mr S to take the car for a pre return inspection. When the investigator asked 
Mr S about this, he said the VWFS service pack advised him to have the car serviced and 
maintained by an authorised VW dealership and that it also sad that he should carry out 
repairs to minimise end of contract charges. Mr S has said that when the car went for its final 
service, he arranged for any repairs to be done at the same time.
I understand Mr Ss frustration. But I dont think that advice in the service pack about getting 
repairs carried out to minimise end of contract charges means that VWFs has done anything 
wrong here. And just because this advice was in the VWFS service pack doesnt mean that 
VWFS is responsible for the standard of the repairs and /or inspection carried out by the VW 
dealership.
I appreciate that it might have been confusing if Mr S was told that the VW dealership used 
different standard to the inspector who inspected the car at the end of the agreement. I 
havent seen any evidence to indicate what standards were used by the dealership, so Im 
unable to say whether it used different standards, or whether it simply didnt apply the 
BVLRA guidelines as rigorously it should have done.
I can see from the documents supplied to Mr S that it says (under vehicle conditions) that 
at the end of contract inspection, BVLRA fair wear and tear standards will apply. So, I think 
Mr S would have been aware, when he took the car to the VW dealership for a pre return 
inspection, of the standards that would be applied by VWFS.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think VWFS has done anything wrong here. Im 
unable to hold VWFS responsible if an authorised VW dealer doesnt carry out its inspection 
and/or repairs in accordance with the relevant BVLRA guidance.
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold the complaint. I wont be asking VWFS to 
remove the charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman