DRN-1435821
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services (UK) Limited didnt treat him fairly 
when he experienced financial difficulties following a serious injury. He wants a default 
removed from his credit file and compensation.
 What happened
Mr H tells us that in early 2019 he sustained a serious injury which led to him being 
hospitalised and being off work. He says he notified MBFS of the financial difficulties which 
this caused. But he says it didnt treat him fairly. Instead he states that MBFS terminated the 
agreement and placed a default on his credit file. He says its since repossessed the vehicle 
and sent him an invoice for charges 
MBFS said it had asked Mr H provide further information about his injury and circumstances 
including his anticipated recovery time. It stated that it hadnt received any of this 
information. And that in the absence of this it wouldve had to make assumptions which it 
didnt consider would be acting diligently. It also said it was obliged to report accurate and 
factual information to the credit reference agencies when payments werent maintained. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He felt MBFS hadnt acted 
fairly. He pointed out that at the time of the incident which led to Mr Hs injury (March 2019) 
he was only one month in arrears. And that arrears accruing from January and February 
2019 had been repaid. He said Mr H had contacted MBFS on the date of his discharge from 
hospital and provided information regarding this. He thought MBFS shouldve offered to put 
a repayment plan in place or paused payments in order to allow Mr H time to recover.
MBFS didnt agree with this outcome. It said it thought this placed an unrealistic expectation 
upon financial firms. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans 
been asked to make the final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr H has been through a very disturbing experience. And that he continues to 
suffer both physically and financially from the effects. I wish him well on what appears likely 
to be a lengthy road to recovery.
Mr Hs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it.
When dealing with a customer in financial difficulty or facing default lenders are required to 
follow rules which are set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) issued by the 
Financial Conduct Authority.  CONC 7.3 requires a business to treat customers who are in arrears fairly. And apply forbearance and due consideration. The rules are set out in the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook issued by the Financial Conduct Authority and these include:
CONC 7.3.2
When dealing with customers in default or in arrears difficulties a firm should pay due regard 
to its obligations under Principle 6 (Customers interests) to treat its customers fairly.
CONC 7.3.5 gives examples including:
(1)  considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges 
(for example, when a customer provides evidence of financial difficulties and is unable to 
meet repayments as they fall due or is only able to make token repayments, where in either 
case the level of debt would continue to rise if interest and charges continue to be applied.
Where information is unclear or incomplete or facts are in dispute - as is the case here - I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
As a result of an incident which was reported to the police and apparently attracted media 
coverage Mr H was hospitalised in March due to sustaining a serious injury. It seems he was 
initially in hospital for about ten days.
On 25 March, around the time of his discharge from hospital, he contacted MBFS to notify it 
of the circumstances. Notes indicate that he was advised that if he went three payments in 
arrears his account would be passed to the pre-termination team. Its recorded that Mr H 
thought that this response was unhelpful. 
Further notes indicate that MBFS asked for further information about Mr Hs situation but 
didnt receive this. But on 1 May 2019 a call handler spoke with Mr H who indicated he 
hoped the May direct debit would be met. He also provided a crime reference number. In 
respect of the earlier request for information, the call handler records that they used an 
online search engine and obtained sufficient details to confirm details of the incident. The 
note records some details of Mr Hs injuries and that his income had been affected.
I accept that in terms of gathering evidence it would be unwise to rely simply on reports in 
the newspapers or online search facilities. But I think thats more a question of the weight 
that should be attached to the information to be derived from these sources. Rather than 
simply ignoring them completely. Taken together with other information - such as proof of 
hospitalisation as well as Mr Hs testimony - there was, in my opinion, sufficient information 
available to MBFS so that it ought reasonably to have known that Mr H would probably need 
time to recover. And that as his income had probably been adversely affected he was likely 
to need some additional time to repay the remaining payment (the agreement was due to 
terminate in July 2019) and the arrears.
MBFS tried several times to contact Mr H but it appears it was unable to do so until it 
received a further complaint from Mr H on or about 20 June 2019. As a result it terminated 
the agreement on 22 June 2019 and recorded a default.
Mr H has explained to our investigator that he was unaware of these attempts at contact. He 
stated that his phone had been retaken by police for evidential purposes. I find that to be a 
plausible explanation.
At the date of default Mr H was in arrears by three monthly payments and there remained 
one further payment due prior to the agreement maturing in July 2019.I find in the overall circumstances that MBFS was too quick to terminate the agreement. And 
that it failed to act fairly and/or to show the requisite degree of forbearance the 
circumstances warranted. Accordingly, Im upholding the complaint.
It was aware the agreement was due to mature in July 2019. So the amount of arrears which 
mightve accumulated was in reality capped. It wouldve been fairer to offer a payment 
arrangement for these arrears. In that way a default couldve been avoided. But MBFS 
wouldve been entitled to record details of the arrangement and missed payments on Mr Hs 
credit file. And in turn Mr H wouldve been able to enter a notice of correction. This would 
explain the mitigating circumstances which had led to the arrears being accumulated. 
As the vehicle has now been repossessed and sold its not possible simply to require MBFS 
to reconsider its decision to terminate. And its necessary for me to make minor adjustments 
to the investigators view to take into account these factors.
I think the fairest resolution is to restore Mr H as near as possible to the position he was in 
immediately prior to the vehicle being terminated.  That is three months in arrears. And it 
should seek to make suitable arrangements with Mr H to repay this sum in line with his 
present financial circumstances.
In doing this I dont think MBFS is being required to change its business model. All that was 
required here was a recognition that circumstances beyond the control of a customer had 
resulted in adverse consequences to his finances. And a degree of flexibility and a 
willingness to make reasonable inferences from the available information would probably 
have avoided the hostile termination and default that followed. Its right that MBFS should 
report accurate information to credit reference agencies. But its equally required that such 
information is reported fairly and isnt the result of premature actions.
Putting things right
MBFS  should now take the following action:
1.  Rework the final settlement figure so as to reflect only those arrears of monthly  
payments due on the date of termination.  Pro rata calculations for periods of less than 
one month should be applied; This would include the removal of all charges 
associated with the termination and repossession and sale;
2.  Pay £300 to Mr H for distress and inconvenience caused;
3.  Arrange to have the record of default removed from Mr Hs credit file. Details of 
arrears and any payment arrangement which is agreed with Mr H can be recorded 
until such time as the arrears are repaid in full. The account should then be recorded 
as settled.
My final decision
For the reason given above my final decision is I'm upholding this complaint.
I now require Mercedes-Benz Financial Services (UK) Limited to take the action set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Stephen RossOmbudsman