DRN-4417094
The complaint
Mr E complained that Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa) irresponsibly granted him a personal loan 
in October 2021 that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In October 2021, Mr E took out a loan of £10,500 over 60 months, with a monthly repayment 
of £260.47 and an APR of 18.29%. Just under £5,500 of this loan was used to repay an 
earlier loan (the original amount of which was £9,500), granted in November 2019, which 
had an APR of 6.73% and a monthly repayment of £226.14. Mr E said he used the 
remaining amount  just over £5,000  to pay off a credit card.
Mr E is unhappy that the loan application was dealt with entirely online, and within a matter 
of hours, with no discussion with Zopa before approval (especially as he considers his age to 
be a relevant factor  he was in his late seventies when he applied for the loan). He also 
feels that it was unfair of Zopa to offer a refinance loan at a significantly higher APR and 
over a longer term  he says that this has put a strain on his finances, and the loan is 
unaffordable.
Mr E has also told us that he had had ongoing health problems following major surgery, and 
he was concerned that there were no safeguards in the application process to help 
customers with an altered mental capacity. (I should say here that Mr E has said that his 
health issues have since improved).
Mr E says he would like Zopa to write off the remaining balance of this loan and refund the 
payments he has already made, with interest. He would also like to be compensated for the 
anxiety and inconvenience suffered.
Mr E complained to Zopa about all this. Zopa said it had carried out appropriate checks 
before granting the loan, and told Mr E that it did not uphold his complaint. It also said that it 
was not aware of Mr Es health problems when he applied for the loan.
Mr E then brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it, but didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. Mr E didnt agree, and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2023, in which I explained why I was minded to 
disagree with our investigator and to uphold Mr Es complaint. Both parties have now 
responded and therefore I can now issue my final decision. Mr E said he agreed with my 
conclusions, but Zopa said it did not. I have discussed this further below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website, and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Es complaint. Ill explain why.
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks required of a lender, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering matters such as the type and amount 
of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and 
the consumers circumstances. So Ive considered whether Zopa completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr E would be able to make the repayments on the 
loan account in a sustainable way.
For the avoidance of doubt, I am only considering the loan granted in October 2021  Mr E 
has not made a complaint about the earlier loan. I also appreciate that Mr E is unhappy 
about the interest rate on the loan, but this would have been a commercial decision by Zopa, 
and I am satisfied that this was clearly shown on the loan agreement before Mr E agreed to 
proceed. So I will make no further comment on this point.
I set out my reasoning in my provisional decision as follows:
Mr E sent in some examples of bank statements for the current account he holds with his 
wife, and information about his sources of income. Zopa provided a copy of the loan 
agreement, and details of the checks it carried out before granting the loan, along with the 
information it had from Mr Es credit file and details of the earlier loan. It also sent in a 
recording of the call Mr E made to Zopa to register his complaint.
Looking at the information Zopa sent in, I can see that it verified Mr Es annual income from 
credit reference agency records at £35,000 before tax, and his net monthly income as 
£2,288.51. Mr E told us that he had income from two occupational pension schemes, his 
state pension and a part-time job, and these figures are shown on one of the bank 
statements that Mr E sent in. Its not clear whether these payments were made after any 
deduction of tax, but given the amounts involved, I think its quite possible that they were not, 
in which case the figures from the bank statement match the figures that Zopa verified. 
I should say here that, had tax already been deducted, Mr Es net income wouldve been 
higher than the figures used by Zopa, but for the reasons set out below, this doesnt affect 
my conclusions.
Turning to Mr Es commitments, the information used by Zopa in its affordability assessment 
showed seven credit cards with outstanding balances, and two personal loans (one of which 
was the earlier loan issued by Zopa). After calculating the required monthly payments on the 
credit cards and loans, and allowing for Mr E as being responsible for half of the rent on his 
home, there was a disposable income of £619.96. The new loan, replacing the earlier one, 
increased Mr Es monthly payments by £34.33, leaving an overall disposable income of 
£585.63. 
We asked Zopa how it took account of general living costs, as this wasnt clear from the 
information it had provided. It said it used figures based on Office for National Statistics 
benchmarking, in this case £620.
Ive first considered whether Zopa carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
granting the loan.Zopa said that Mr E had no adverse payment history on his credit file, and it took account of 
his debt-to-income ratio and disposable income. The application passed all of the credit and 
affordability checks, and the income stated on the application was verified through a credit 
reference agency. There was manual underwriting involvement but no cause for concern 
was identified, and the loan was approved. Zopa also said that the purpose of the loan was 
to consolidate existing debts, so it would have expected Mr E to pay off some other credit.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not satisfied that Zopa did carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. I say this because the copy of Mr Es credit file at the time of the 
application, which Zopa provided, showed that he had access to 13 credit cards. I accept 
that not all had outstanding balances, but the total credit available was in the region of 
£35,000. Two of these credit cards had been taken out less than six months before the loan 
application. And Mr Es unsecured debt totalled just under £24,000 at the time of the 
application.
I think this, along with the level of disposable income, which was below the benchmark figure 
that Zopa was using in this case, should reasonably have prompted further enquiries to Mr E 
to check what credit commitments were intended to be repaid, and to look further at his 
income and expenditure.
Looking at Zopas underwriting notes, I can see that the level of Mr Es disposable income 
was highlighted, but theres no evidence to confirm that this was considered in any detail. 
The notes show that Mr E was to be contacted to verify his identity and the purpose of the 
loan, and there is a call from Mr E noted at 11.09 on 25 October 2021. There is no record of 
what was discussed and Zopa cant provide a call recording. The loan was then noted as 
approved just over an hour later.
As I noted above, I have some example bank statements relating to Mr Es joint current 
account with his wife. Mr E told us that he was the main income earner, and his wifes 
income was her state pension, although I can see that there were some other state benefits 
being paid into the account. Nonetheless, these were not substantial, and I also note that 
there was a debt repayment plan entry on the statements, which Mr E said was that of his 
wife (had it been Mr Es there would have been evidence on his credit history).
Im satisfied that Mr E was indeed the main income earner, and it seems to me that Mr E 
would have been largely responsible for the rent - so more than the 50% allowed for in 
Zopas assessment  and most of the joint living costs. I think this would have taken up 
most, if not all of Mr Es disposable income. Ive taken account of Mr Es income possibly 
being a little higher than that used by Zopa, depending on his tax position, but on the basis 
that I think Mr E was largely responsible for the household outgoings, I think Mr Es 
disposable income would still have been insufficient to cover the new loan on a sustainable 
basis.
Ive also thought about the new loan payment being some £35 higher than the previous one. 
I accept this is not a significant amount, but in this decision I am looking at Mr Es overall 
position in October 2021, and whether the new monthly payment was sustainable. I have 
kept in mind that the previous loan had 24 months left to run as at October 2021. The new 
loan was over 60 months. So Ive also taken account of the need for Mr E to continue to 
make monthly payments for a further 36 months.
Overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think that if Zopa had carried out more detailed 
checks on Mr Es income and outgoings, those checks wouldve shown that the monthly 
repayments on the new loan were unlikely to be sustainable. I say this because, taking 
account of the commitments detailed above, and Mr Es circumstances. Im not satisfied that Mr E was left with enough disposable income to manage those repayments sustainably over 
a 60-month term. So I dont think Zopa acted fairly in granting this loan to Mr E.
I said in my provisional decision that I was proposing to uphold Mr Es complaint for the 
reasons I had stated. Mr E responded to say that he agreed with my conclusions. Zopa 
reiterated that it had verified the details provided to it by Mr E when he applied for the loan 
via one of the credit reference agencies, and as the checks were satisfied, no further 
evidence was required. Zopa further said that as its checks deemed the loan affordable, it 
disagreed with my findings. 
Ive thought about what Zopa said. However, I explained in my provisional decision why I 
thought that, in Mr Es case, Zopa hadnt carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, 
and why I thought it should have gone further. As no new evidence has been provided, I 
have no reason to change my conclusions, and therefore I uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Mr E raised other concerns, which I commented on in my provisional decision. Firstly, he 
was unhappy that there were no safeguards in the application process to help customers 
with an altered mental capacity. This was because, as a result of major surgery, Mr E said 
his character changed. It has clearly been a very difficult time for Mr E, and I am glad to hear 
that things are improving. However, Zopa said it wasnt made aware of Mr Es difficulties, so 
I cant reasonably expect it to have made adjustments.
Mr Es second concern was age, in that he was in his late seventies when he took out the 
loan, and he didnt think this was considered. There was a reference on Zopas underwriting 
notes to the applicant being over 60, but its not clear what action that may have prompted. I 
think this is a matter that would depend on individual circumstances. And as I have upheld 
Mr Es complaint for the reasons set out above, I dont consider that I need to make a finding 
on this particular point.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr E to repay the capital that he borrowed in October 2021 
because he has had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a 
loan that shouldnt have been provided to him. Zopa must put this right.
It should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to this loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr E has made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£10,500 originally lent. If, once all adjustments have been made, this shows that Mr E 
has made overpayments leading to a credit balance, these overpayments should be 
refunded to Mr E, together with interest at 8% simple a year* from the date they were 
made to the date of settlement.
if, once all adjustments have been made, this shows that Mr E still has an 
outstanding amount to repay, Zopa should contact Mr E to arrange a suitable 
repayment plan.
Zopa should remove any adverse information (if any) it has so far recorded on Mr Es 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr E a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I have decided to uphold Mr Es complaint. Zopa Bank Ltd 
should compensate Mr E as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman