DRN-2706227
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the service provided by Brightside Insurance Services Limited in 
respect of a motor insurance policy he purchased through them. 
What happened
Mr O took out a motor insurance policy through Brightside in April 2020. The policy was 
underwritten by another business, with Brightside administering the policy. Shortly after he 
took out the policy Brightside said it needed some additional information from Mr O, 
including a verification of his drivers license that hed have to obtain online from the Driver 
and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA).
Mr O complained to Brightside as he was unhappy that it was asking for certain information, 
specifically his national insurance number. He has said he felt this was unreasonable of 
Brightside and potentially discriminatory. Brightside explained that it didnt require details of 
Mr Os national insurance number, but hed need to provide this to the DVLA to obtain the 
information it needed.
While validating the information provided when the policy was taken out, the underwriter 
became aware of an undeclared claim, registered by Mr Os previous insurers. As a result, it 
informed Brightside that an additional premium of approximately £97 would be needed. 
Brightside informed Mr O of this and said if it was not paid the policy would be cancelled.
Mr O objected to this saying that he disputed the claim registered by his previous insurer. 
Brightside said hed have to contact the previous insurer to discuss this, but the increased 
premium was due.
Mr O complained to his previous insurer who said it would look into matters. It also agreed to 
pay him the amount needed to cover the premium increase due to errors it had made.
Mr O subsequently paid the increased premium to Brightside, to be passed to the 
underwriter. But he said he was unhappy that it had chased him and threatened to cancel 
the policy.
An investigation by the previous insurer, completed several months later, led to the disputed 
claim being removed. It provided confirmation of this to Mr O for him to provide to Brightside 
and the underwriter. Mr O shared this with Brightside. As a result, the underwriter agreed to 
a full refund of the additional premium paid. Brightside processed this and returned the 
amount to Mr Os payment card.
While this was ongoing Mr O asked Brightside to provide a hard copy of his policy 
documents. Brightside explained that, due to the restrictions in place because of the ongoing 
pandemic, it wasnt able to send these out. It did provide another link for Mr O to access the 
documents online. 
Mr O made a further complaint to Brightside about not receiving his documents and about 
how it had handled the increased premium. Brightside said it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. It said the premium increase had been due to information recorded and 
shared by the previous insurer differing from that on the application. In terms of issuing 
paper copies of the policy documents, it explained that it wasnt able to do this due to 
changes it had made to its business to adapt to the pandemic. So, it didnt think it had acted 
unreasonably. But it offered Mr O £25 for the inconvenience of it not being able to provide 
these sooner and said, as restrictions had begun to ease it was now able, and would 
arrange, to send hard copies of the policy documents to Mr O. 
Unhappy with the responses by Brightside to his complaints, Mr O asked us to consider 
matters. He added he was also unhappy that his complaints had been stopped from 
reaching Brightsides CEO. And he said Brightside had failed to provide details of its 
diversity and equality policy  which hed requested due to his unhappiness with being asked 
to provide his national insurance number.
One of our investigators considered matters but didnt think Brightside had done anything 
wrong. She felt the information it had asked for when validating the policy wasnt 
unreasonable and didnt think Mr O had been treated differently to other customers. She felt 
Brightside had acted reasonably when informing Mr O of the increased premium and had 
processed the refund appropriately once the underwriter had confirmed it should do so. She 
didnt feel Brightsides explanation for not being able to provide hard copy documents when 
these were requested was unreasonable, and noted that once it was able to it had shared 
these. And she felt Brightsides explanation of its policies and decision for the complaint to 
be handled by someone other than its CEO were fair, and a matter of its commercial 
judgement.
Mr O did not agree with the investigators opinion and asked for his complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. As a result, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The additional information requested when validating the policy
Mr O has said he is unhappy that Brightside asked for his national insurance number as he 
feels it was potentially questioning his rights of residency and discriminating against him by 
doing so. But from what Ive seen I dont think Brightside requested this information.
The decision on what information would be required when validating a policy would generally 
be the responsibility of the underwriter. If Mr O has concerns about the underwriters 
requirements, hed have to raise this with that business separately. 
Here Brightside was relaying information about what was required. But from what Ive seen, 
what it asked for was a copy of the online counterpart to a drivers license from the DVLA  
which has replaced the old paper counterpart. This isnt an unusual request within the 
industry. 
I can see Brightside explained what Mr O would need to obtain this information, and that 
included his national insurance number. But I havent seen anything that suggests it asked 
for this directly.
Taking this into account I dont think what Brightside has requested was unusual or that it 
requested different information from Mr O than it would from any other customers. So, I dont 
think it has treated him unfairly.I can see that following this Mr O asked Brightside for a copy of its equality and diversity 
policy. Brightside responded to this request by saying it didnt have a separate written policy 
on this but adhered to the relevant regulatory framework on treating customers fairly and that 
its business approach was based on promoting the highest standards to ensure this.
Whether or not to have a separate written policy is ultimately Brightsides decision and a 
matter of its commercial judgement  which I cant interfere with. And as it has explained a 
written policy is not available to provide, I cant compel it to provide one. Taking everything 
into account though, I think it has explained the reasons for this clearly to Mr O. So, I dont 
think it has acted unreasonably.
Mr O has also said he is unhappy that his complaint about this, and the other issues he 
raised, were blocked from reaching Brightsides CEO  which is who he addressed the 
complaint to. It isnt unusual for a business to have a dedicated complaints handling team, 
that handles matters on behalf of the business and the CEO. So, I dont think the response 
to Mr Os complaint(s) coming from this separate department is unusual. Overall though, 
how Brightside chooses to structure its complaints handling function is again a matter of its 
commercial judgement and not something I can interfere with.
The actions in relation to the increased premium
The decision to charge an additional premium for the policy, on discovery of information 
recorded by the previous insurer which differed from that in the application, was again the 
responsibility of the underwriter of the policy. This isnt something that Brightside was 
responsible for. And if Mr O wished to challenge the fairness of the decision to charge the 
premium at all, this is again something hed have to take up separately with the underwriter.
All I can look at here is Brightsides actions in communicating with Mr O about this and 
whether it treated him fairly overall.
From the information Ive seen I think Brightside explained to Mr O promptly that an 
additional premium would be required, and that non-payment could result in the cancellation 
of the policy. I appreciate that Mr O was unhappy with this, but I think the information 
Brightside provided was clear. I also think it acted correctly when referring him to the 
previous insurer to dispute the claim that had been recorded.
Mr O is unhappy that Brightside continued to chase the payment of this additional premium. 
And he says it threatened him with the cancellation of the policy. But I dont think Brightside 
acted unreasonably. It had explained a premium was due and non-payment could lead to the 
policy being cancelled. As the payment wasnt immediately received, and Mr O indicated he 
was disputing things with the previous insurer, I can see that Brightside extended the 
deadline for payment to be made. But I dont think it sending further reminders of this was 
unreasonable. And I dont think its intention was to threaten Mr O. I think it was simply 
reminding him of the potential consequences  which I think it was appropriate to do.
Once Mr O provided confirmation from the previous insurer that the disputed claim would be 
removed, Brightside shared this with the underwriter. And once the underwriter confirmed 
that the additional premium should be refunded, it appears Brightside acted promptly in 
returning this to Mr O. So, taking everything into account, I dont think Brightside has acted 
unfairly in respect of this issue.
Mr O said as part of his complaint to Brightside that he felt interest should be paid on this 
additional premium for the time that it was held. Again, I think that matter might be better 
addressed to the underwriter, which was responsible for the decision to charge the amount 
in question. But I would just note that, as the previous insurer paid Mr O the amount required to cover the increased premium he was not out of pocket due to this premium being 
charged. And indeed, as this amount has since been refunded to him by Brightside, he is 
actually in a better position.
Brightside not sending hard copies of policy documents when requested
Brightside has provided evidence to show that when Mr O first took the policy out, he 
indicated that email was his preferred method of communication. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable that this was how the policy documents were originally sent to him.
I note that Mr O did request hard copies from Brightside, but it explained, due to changes it 
had made to its working practices to adapt to the national restrictions that came about from 
the pandemic, it wasnt able to send these at the point they were requested. I think 
Brightsides explanation for this is reasonable. 
I can see that it provided a further copy by email  the channel that was available to it at the 
time. And once the restrictions had eased, I can see it did send the requested hard copies to 
Mr O. I know Mr O wouldve preferred to have received these sooner, but I cant see that this 
has caused him a loss. So overall, I dont think Brightside has treated Mr O unfairly and as a 
result I think the £25 it offered him for the inconvenience caused by it not being in a position 
to send these documents sooner is more than reasonable.
So, taking everything into account, while I understand this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr O, I dont think Brightside has handled matters unreasonably. And as a result, I dont 
intend to require it to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman