DRN-3031587
The complaint
Mrs J has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance trading as More Thans decision not to 
offer a motor insurance policy to her at renewal.
What happened
Mrs J held a car insurance policy with Royal & Sun Alliance (RSA). In March 2021  a month 
before the renewal date  RSA wrote to Mrs J to say it would unfortunately no longer be able 
to provide cover from the renewal date in April 2021. An agent quoted a renewal figure of 
£85,000 to Mrs J when she called. RSA said the reason for not offering cover was due to the 
area where she lived and type of car Mrs J drove.
Mrs J was unhappy with RSAs explanation. She said she didnt live in the area RSA gave  
and she believed its real reason for not offering cover was because she had an old policy 
which provided a benefit of guaranteeing her no claims bonus (NCB) for life. 
RSA apologised to Mrs J for its error and explained that the area it was no longer offering 
cover for extended to where Mrs J lives. It said the renewal price quoted was an error. It 
explained that this was an internal trigger when the underwriting criteria meant no cover 
could be offered. 
But RSA said its decision not to offer cover was an underwriting decision and was correct. 
For its poor service, it offered Mrs J £50 compensation. 
Mrs J rejected the compensation amount and complained to RSA. In response, RSA 
explained that having reviewed its underwriting criteria  and while this is commercially 
sensitive  it could tell Mrs J that her circumstances fell outside if the risk it was prepared to 
undertake.
It issued a cheque to Mrs J for a further £50 and apologised for the errors it made. But its 
position remained unchanged in that it correctly declined cover at renewal in line with its 
underwriting criteria. 
Mrs J remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator didnt 
recommend it should be upheld. She thought RSAs decision was one it was entitled to 
make. She found no evidence that the decision was linked to Mrs Js NCB. She thought RSA 
had treated Mrs J as it would any other customer in her circumstances. 
Mrs J didnt agree. So shed like an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers can decide what risk its prepared to provide cover for. And so it can change its 
underwriting criteria from time to time to reflect that risk. 
We dont interfere with an insurers commercial decision as to what business it wants to 
underwrite. And an insurers underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive. So it doesnt 
have to share it with customers. But we can ask an insurer to provide us with underwriting 
evidence so that we can see if an insurer has treated a customer fairly. 
Having considered the information provided by RSA, Im satisfied it has applied its 
underwriting criteria fairly to Mrs J. And Im therefore satisfied that the reason for RSAs 
decision was not related to the NCB protection it previously offered Mrs J.
RSA told Mrs J that it wasnt prepared to provide cover for where Mrs J lived and the type of 
car she drove due to the increased risk of theft in the area. RSA is entitled to make this 
decision so I cannot criticise it for this. And I think it told Mrs J in good time to allow her to 
shop around for alternative cover.
However, RSA made mistakes in how it communicated with Mrs J. So I can understand why 
she wasnt satisfied when she challenged its decision not to offer cover at renewal. But I 
think RSAs apology and compensation payment of a further £50 was fair and reasonable for 
the poor service it provided. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs J. But I dont think RSAs decision not to offer a policy at renewal 
was reached unreasonably. And I think it did enough to resolve her complaint. So Im not 
asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman