DRN-4215613
The complaint
A partnership which Ill call C complains that Northern Bank Limited (trading as Danske 
Bank) treated them unfairly when they amended a standing order which wasnt actioned 
correctly and then the bank didnt make them aware. 
The complaint is brought on Cs behalf by one of the partners, Mrs M.
What happened
C held a business account with Danske Bank. 
C told us:
The set up a standing order (STO) on 6 April 2022 for £323.40, the following day 
they amended this to £99.35.
Around a week later, Danske reverted the STO back to £323.40 without notifying C. 
The partnership didnt notice the change until 12 August when they immediately 
deleted the STO to prevent further payments debiting their account. 
They complained to Danske who didnt uphold their complaint and said that the 
instruction to amend the STO was only temporary for one payment and would then 
return to the original amount.
There hadnt been anything on the STO pages that said the change they had made 
was only temporary. 
The overpayments had been made to one of their employees, but as this was a bank 
error, they felt the bank should refund the extra £1,120.25 that had been paid plus 
8% interest and then attempt to reclaim this. 
Danske told us:
There are two options available on its online STO system, one is to amend a specific 
STO transaction and the other is to amend the STO agreement itself.
C had only amended a specific transaction, not the wider STO agreement which is 
why the payment reverted after one week.
C would have been given a list of STOs set up on their account with the amounts 
and the date the next payment is due  so they would have seen that the higher 
payment would have been due the following week after theyd made the amendment.
C had made the STO payments to one of their employees so they could pursue them 
for any extra payments that had been made.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She was satisfied based on the 
information that C had only amended one payment amount, rather than the STO itself. She 
also thought that if C was unclear about this that they could have contacted the bank and 
should have noticed sooner from their statements that the higher amount had been debited. 
The investigator said that it was reasonable to expect C to try and recover the funds directly 
from the beneficiary because it was their employee. 
C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
C says that Danske has acted unfairly and that once theyd change the amount on the STO 
it should have stayed the same which is evidenced by the banks terms and conditions. But I 
dont agree. Ive looked at the Danskes STO terms and conditions which say the following, 
[] the standing order will continue until you advise us to cancel it and Ive looked at Cs 
STO instruction and I can see that it did continue until the partners cancelled it on 12 August. 
So Im satisfied that the STO agreement itself didnt cease, it was simply the amount of the 
instruction which changed. Therefore Im not persuaded Danske didnt follow its agreed 
terms here. 
Danske has told us that there are two parts to its STO system. One is for the STO 
agreement itself, and the other is for a STO transaction. It told us that when C amended the 
STO, they only edited the amount within the single transaction page  rather than amending 
the actual STO agreement. Ive seen evidence from Danske which shows that when C 
amended its STO, they would have seen that there was no next payment date showing for 
the £99.35 as this was only a single payment change. So I think C ought reasonably to have 
been aware that this hadnt been a permanent change. 
Furthermore, even if C didnt notice this when they made the change, I think its reasonable 
to believe that the partners would have noticed the STO payment hadnt been changed 
either on the STO system when they logged in or from checking their bank statements  
given that the amended amount was less than a third of what was being debited from their 
account. 
However, even if I agreed that Danske had made a mistake  which Im not persuaded is the 
case  its not for me to fine or punish a business for making a mistake. And as a service we 
would expect a complainant to try and mitigate their losses. In this case, C has told us that 
the overpayment was made to one of their employees, who is aware that the amount they 
received was incorrect. However, it appears C has advised them not to return the funds, as 
they would seek repayment from Danske instead. But this isnt fair to Danske or the 
employee that may be pursued for the excess funds - and I wouldnt expect Danske to have 
to pursue Cs employee when the partners can request the return of the funds directly with 
little or no cost.
I recognise that the partners will be disappointed with my decision. But based on everything 
Ive seen, I dont think Danske has done anything wrong, so I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman