DRN-1850522
The complaint
Miss M complains Assicurazioni Generali S.p.A (Generali) unfairly declined her income 
protection claim. 
What happened
Miss M is a beneficiary of her employers group income protection scheme. The policy is 
designed to pay benefits in the event she is unable to work due to illness or injury, following 
a 52 week deferred period. 
Miss M became absent from work in April 2018. She made a claim against the policy and 
said the main cause of her absence from work was repetitive strain injury (RSI). 
An occupational health report was carried out shortly after Miss M became absent from 
work. This noted shed said physiotherapy she previously had in relation to her RSI hadnt 
been helpful. And shed reported pain when using devices, and an inability to operate a 
computer mouse. The report recommended Miss M discuss further management of her RSI 
pain symptoms with her GP. And suggested she refer herself to Access to work in relation 
to using a mouse. 
A second occupational health report was completed a little under a year later. It said the 
main issue preventing a return to work was still RSI. And it noted Miss M had not tried some 
of the previous recommendations made. The report recommended Miss M ask her GP about 
pain medication. And it suggested workplace adjustments and said if these could be put in 
place, she could begin a phased return to work. 
Miss Ms GP wrote a letter in July 2019. This set out that Miss M had previously suffered 
with RSI symptoms and had received some physiotherapy two years earlier. The GP relayed 
the symptoms Miss M had reported. There was no mention of any treatment since she had 
stopped working. 
Generali declined Miss Ms claim. It said she hadnt met the policy definition of incapacity.
Miss M complained. Generali maintained the claim should be declined. It said it hadnt seen 
sufficient evidence that Miss M was unable to perform the material and substantial duties of 
her occupation as is required by the policy. 
Unhappy with the response, Miss M brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened and said she didnt think the claim had been declined 
unfairly. 
Miss M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
She said anxiety was also a factor in her being unable to work, shed had ongoing pain with 
RSI, but had not claimed it was severe. And when she previously returned to work, her 
symptoms worsened. She said she had more recently been referred for physiotherapy again 
and had discussed the pain clinic. 
Generali didnt make any comments on the view. 
As Miss M disagreed, the case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons, which Ill explain. 
Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Generali has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
For the claim to be met, Miss M needed to evidence she met the policy definition of 
incapacity which is as follows:
As a result of illness of injury, the Member is incapable of performing the Material 
and Substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not carrying out any other 
Work or occupation. 
Miss M has said she suffers with pain in her hands and wrist when using devices. I dont 
doubt that this is the case, but the medical evidence Ive seen doesnt persuade me her 
symptoms were of such a level that she was incapable of carrying out the material and 
substantial duties of her occupation. The occupational health reports gave recommendations 
of things Miss M could do to enable her return to work, but didnt state she was unable to 
work at all. And the other medical evidence Ive seen doesnt show Miss M was referred to 
any specialist for further investigations or treatment during the claim period. Or that shed 
been prescribed any pain medication, as might be expected in a case with severe 
symptoms. So based on this, I think Generalis decision to decline the claim was fair. 
Ive focussed on the evidence which was available to Generali at the time of the claim, when 
deciding whether or not its acted fairly. Miss M has said shes more recently been referred 
for physiotherapy again, and has had a discussion about the pain clinic. But this isnt 
something I can consider, as this has happened some considerable time after the claim was 
declined.
Miss M previously said RSI was the main reason she was unable to work. In her response to 
the investigators view, she said anxiety also played a part. And this was noted on her 
original claim form. However, I dont think this makes a difference. I say this because the 
medical records show Miss M was referred for cognitive behavioural therapy in 2018 and 
was discharged back to her GP after four sessions. And her GPs report in March 2019 
stated her anxiety was well controlled with medication. So Im not persuaded Miss M was 
unable to carry out the material and substantial duties of her occupation due to anxiety. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Assicurazioni Generali S.p.A.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman