DRN-4020280
The complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to transfer £100,000 to an account he held with a
third party in line with his instructions.
What happened
Mr H visited one of the banks branches on a Friday to transfer £100,000 of his savings to an
account held elsewhere. He recalls he was told the fee would be £25 and it would be a same
day transfer. The transfer was unsuccessful but the money did not arrive back in his
Barclays account until the following Thursday. This caused Mr H significant worry and
inconvenience, particularly as the parties involved gave him conflicting information when he
tried to track down his money during that time.
Mr H says he has suffered a financial loss and material distress and inconvenience. He asks
why the Barclays branch manager offered him £50 when he said the fault was with the third
party; why he was charged a different fee (£15) but also why was any fee charged given the
transfer did not happen; and where are the banks controls to prevent his money going
missing for five days.
Barclays said it had not made any mistakes, the transfer was returned due to the beneficiary
details provided being incorrect.
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint. She issued two assessments. I will summarise the
latest findings here. She said the evidence showed the incorrect payment reference was
used by Barclays (three extra digits were added) and this was why the payment was
returned. But as this was on the payment instruction sheet Mr H could have been aware of
this. So she felt £50 compensation was reasonable.
Mr H asked for some additional information and the investigator confirmed the money had
left his Barclays account but could not be allocated by the third party and so was returned.
The third party had evidenced it had received the funds on the Friday and returned them on
the Tuesday.
Mr H remained unhappy with the investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans
review. He said the third party told him it never received the money, meanwhile Barclays told
him from the Monday to the Thursday morning that it did not have the money. So in essence
his money was missing with neither party taking responsibility.
I reached a different conclusion to the investigator so I used a provisional decision. An 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision.
Extract from my provisional decision
I understand why Mr H was so concerned when his money did not arrive as expected in his
savings account, and why this only got worse each day he could not track it down. I am sorry
he had to go through this. But what I have to decide here is, based on the available
evidence, whether or not I can fairly conclude this was as a result of something Barclays did
wrong.
I have not found any errors on the part of Barclays in processing the transfer. Contrary to the
investigators finding that it used an incorrect payment reference, I am satisfied it used the
right reference. It matched Mr Hs passbook; it was confirmed correctly on the payment
instructions letter; the bank has sent screen shots showing it was entered correctly on the
banks system; and I have checked it complied with the third partys requirements for
payments made by another business to one of its Loyalty Saver accounts.
From the information the third party provided I can also see that the money reached it on the
same day it was sent, as Mr H was expecting. It seems it arrived however without the
complete beneficiary details which is why it was returned. At the time of the return Barclays
was provided with the reason wire transfer reject. From the available evidence I cannot
know why the third party did not receive the complete beneficiary details, but for the reasons
set out above I am satisfied from the evidence I have seen that it was not because of a
mistake Barclays made when it sent the money.
The third party has told us, as Mr H is already aware, that it returned his money on the
Tuesday. Mr H has reasonably asked why Barclays did not know this when he, and his local
branch, called the global payments team at Barclays to try and locate it. Barclays has sent
evidence showing the returned transfer reached Mr Hs account at 12.08pm on 18
September 2021. It says it received the funds back from the third party on 16 September
2021 at 15.04, but it has explained that because a payment investigation had been raised on
the original transaction the process to return the money to Mr Hs account involved additional
checks and manual intervention. Had there not been a payment investigation raised the
money would have reached Mr H on the same day.
This is why when Mr H, and the branch, rang the payments team the funds could not be
seen in his account until the afternoon of Thursday. In this regard I dont find that Barclays
made an error as it followed its standard process for returning money where a payment
investigation has been raised. However, I do think it should have considered this when Mr H
kept calling to try to locate the funds. Had it advised him of this lengthier process that would
need to be followed in the circumstances he could have avoided two of the days of the
stress he suffered whilst not knowing where his money was. For this avoidable distress and
inconvenience created by Barclays communication failure I am awarding Mr H £100. I have
decided on this award level after considering the duration of the issue (which was not
prolonged), but more crucially the amount of money involved  which was significant.
Mr H also asked why he paid a £15 fee when he was told it would be £25. Barclays has
explained £25 is correct and Mr H was incorrectly charged the business banking fee of £15.
This was a human error and to his benefit so there is no action I am instructing the bank to
take. And as I have not found that the transfer failed because of an error on Barclays part I
am not asking the bank to waive the fee.
In summary, whilst I acknowledge the week must have been very stressful for Mr H, based
on my findings I cannot fairly hold Barclays liable for all of the distress and inconvenience he
suffered, or any financial loss as he referenced at the outset of this complaint. To recognise
the part it played in prolonging Mr Hs distress and inconvenience Barclays will have to pay
Mr H £100 compensation.
I asked both parties to send any new information or comments by 15 March 2023. They both 
replied ahead of the deadline allowing me to issue a final decision today.
Mr H accepted my provisional decision, as did Barclays. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any new information or comments, I have no grounds to change 
the findings our outcome I set out in my provisional decision.
It follows I am awarding Mr H £100 to recognise that his distress and inconvenience was 
prolonged in part by Barclays. 
Putting things right
Barclays must pay Mr H £100 compensation.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Hs complaint in part. Barclays Bank UK PLC must put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman