DRN-3469992
The complaint
Mr H and Ms Ns complaint is about U K Insurance Limited (UKI)s handling of an escape 
of water claim made under their home insurance policy.
All references to UKI include its appointed agents.
What happened
Around March 2018, Mr H and Ms N made an escape of water claim under their home 
insurance policy with UKI.
They moved back into the property around April 2019 and there followed further 
correspondence with UKI about snagging issues. 
Around February 2021, UKI confirmed it wasnt responsible for the final set of snagging 
issues.
Mr H and Ms N werent happy about this and complained to UKI. They were unhappy about 
the delays caused up to this point in the claim. And they alleged that around March 2019, 
UKI had deliberately concealed evidence of damp in the kitchen before proceeding with 
repairs.
UKI agreed thered been significant delays caused by its loss adjusters during the claim. It 
agreed the snagging issues had carried on for far too long. And it also agreed that if a 
contractor had highlighted a damp issue during the claim, then Mr H and Ms N shouldve 
been made aware at the time of discovery. UKI offered Mr H and Ms N £1,500 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr H and Ms N didnt agree and brought their complaint to us. They said they wanted around 
£20,000 compensation.
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They 
highlighted areas of the claim where UKI shouldve provided better service. But they 
concluded that UKIs offer of compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
So, they didnt recommend it needed to do anything further.
Mr H and Ms N disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They strongly feel that 
UKI deliberately withheld information regarding damp which has had a lasting impact on the 
property. And they feel that their circumstances in being out of home and of being impacted 
by the claim warrant more than £1,500 compensation.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for these reasons:
Ive considered Mr H and Ms Ns comments carefully about why they feel further 
compensation is due. And whilst their complaint submission goes into some detail about the 
events which occurred, I can only consider compensation for avoidable delays, and distress 
or inconvenience which are as a direct result of UKIs actions. 
In other words, had the claim been handled as expected throughout, it appears there were 
still events which wouldve caused Mr H and Ms N some distress and upset here; linked to 
snagging issues and underlying damp issues in the property which have been shown to be 
unrelated to the claim.
Ill also acknowledge that whilst its clear Mr H and Ms N have spent considerable time in 
preparing their submission to UKI and our service, we generally dont award compensation 
for the time spent in dealing with, or the handling of a complaint.
Ultimately, whats left for me to determine here is whether UKIs offer of compensation is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. And whether any lack of information about the damp 
has had the impact Mr H and Ms N claim.
Based on everything Ive seen, its clear there have been avoidable delays by UKI in dealing 
with this claim. For the most part this can be attributed to; a delay in starting the initial repair 
work once the property was certified as dry; getting UKIs contractors to reengage with the 
claim to complete the snagging works; and in UKI subsequently determining which works fell 
outside of its scope of repairs. 
This shouldve been better monitored by UKI and significantly contributed to the overall 
length of the claim, which spanned over three years. 
Ive also considered that Mr H and Ms N were out of home for around 13 months. So, whilst 
the overall claim wasnt finalised until much later, they were able to return to the property 
(which was habitable), whilst they continued to dispute the remaining snagging issues. 
Therefore, it follows that the impact of the delays after the point they returned home was 
less, albeit still inconvenient.
Ive considered whether any of UKIs mistakes were irreversible or had a lasting impact to  
Mr H and Ms N  a key consideration our service makes when considering higher 
compensation amounts  but I cant see thats the case here. As mentioned, the property 
was habitable, and UKI later confirmed it wasnt responsible for any items on Mr H and      
Ms Ns second snagging list. So, I consider the crux of the compensation here is more for 
the delay in UKI communicating this message, and the inconvenience this caused.
Ive considered Mr H and Ms Ns point about UKI deliberately withholding information about 
the damp. And theyve placed a lot of weight on an alleged email between UKIs loss 
adjuster and contractor, where they say the contractor highlighted the damp issue but was 
told to paint over it anyway. The specific passage Mr H and Ms N refer to states:As per our email dated 15 March 2019, there were signs of damp at high level in the 
kitchen. We were instructed to apply stain block and 2 coats emulsion. The stain block will 
not hold back a historic damp problem. There is also a lack of ventilation in this room that will 
not be helping.
I can understand why Mr H and Ms N would interpret the correspondence this way, and I 
also acknowledge they feel very strongly about this point. Ive not seen evidence of the 
alleged email. But even if there were one, I dont think it changes the outcome of the 
complaint.
In essence, the extract above needs to be read in the wider context of the claim. And having 
read all the correspondence in the file, I find on balance that its more likely the contractor 
was referring to pre-existing issues in the property (linked to ventilation and the bathroom) 
and simply commented on the work theyd been asked to do, whilst also highlighting that 
such work isnt an effective remedy for a historic damp issue.
In other words, Im not persuaded that this was a deliberate attempt by UKI to conceal 
damage or damp. And Im more persuaded that any subsequent damage is linked to a 
different intervening cause outside of the scope of the claim, rather than being as a direct 
consequence of UKIs failure to provide information.
Therefore, having weighed everything up and considering the overall impact to Mr H and    
Ms N here, I find that £1,500 is fair compensation for the delays and inconvenience caused 
to them during the claim. So, I wont require UKI to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms N to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman