DRN-2281400
The complaint 
Mr D complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent him an unaffordable loan in June 2020. He 
says the repayment of the loan caused him financial difficulties.
What happened 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
Loans 2 Gos checks suggests that it believed Mr Ds monthly expenses were more 
than £250 which he declared at the time of the application. Loans 2 Go has said it 
lent to Mr D on the basis that his income was around £1,518.47 and it worked out his 
monthly expenses as being around £1,167.34. This monthly expense amount 
included a 10% buffer of Mr Ds income which Loans 2 Go says it added when 
considering the affordability of the loan.
It seems to me that Loans 2 Go was concerned enough about some of the 
information Mr D provided about his monthly expenses, it would have been 
reasonable for it to have taken it checks further when deciding to lend.
The loan term was 24 months and Loans 2 Go as a responsible lender should have 
been looking to satisfy itself that Mr D could meet the monthly repayment of £312.87 
throughout the term of the loan.
I think it would have been reasonable for Loans 2 Go to verify some of the 
information Mr D provided. Loans 2 Go has said it verified Mr Ds income through a 
third-party credit reference agency, but Mr D has provided his payslips to show that 
his income was around £1,080 at the time of applying for this loan as hed been 
recently furloughed.
Mr D has provided copies of his bank statements showing his circumstances at the 
time. The statements show that Mr Ds income was around £1,089 in May 2020. 
Mr D had earned a similar amount in April 2020 as well. Mr Ds expenses were 
around £1,200 including his rent, utilities and credit commitments and so Mr D 
couldnt afford the loan repayment.
So had Loans 2 Go taken its checks further, its likely to have found that Mr D earned 
less than it thought and as a responsible lender shouldnt have lent to him.
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mr Ds complaint .
Putting things right 
I order Loans 2 Go Limited to:
Remove all interest and charges applied to the capital amount of £1,900.
Treat all payments Mr D has made as payments towards the capital amount.
After doing the above, theres likely to be an outstanding balance, Loans 2 Go should 
agree a repayment plan with Mr D.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to this loan 
My final decision 
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman