DRN-2709494
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums 
they paid for a single trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs O bought a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. 
The policy was purchased on 30 December 2019, to cover a holiday from 26 March 2020 to 
23 April 2020. 
Mr and Mrs O paid £442.94 for the standard level of travel insurance cover, which also 
covered their declared medical conditions. Mr and Mrs O also paid an additional premium of 
£19.98 for optional travel disruption extension cover. The premium Mr and Mrs O paid for 
their travel insurance policy, including the additional cover options, also included a discount 
of £48.60. 
 
On 24 March 2020, Mr and Mrs O cancelled their holiday. On the same date, they contacted 
the broker to cancel their travel insurance policy and request a refund of the premiums paid. 
Great Lakes said that as it was more than 14 days since the purchase of the policy, 
Mr and Mrs O were not entitled to a refund of the premium. However, it said they could move 
the policy dates to cover a trip within 18 months of the original date of purchase. 
Alternatively, Great Lakes offered a pro-rata voucher worth £76.35, valid for three years, that 
could be put towards future holidays they chose to take, or it could be transferred to others 
to use. Great Lakes didnt include the premium Mr and Mrs O paid for their optional travel 
disruption extension cover within its calculations.
Mr and Mrs O were unhappy with Great Lakes offer. So, they brought their complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into the matter. She found that neither the relevant regulators rules 
nor the policy terms and conditions entitled Mr and Mrs O to a premium refund. But she did 
think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to provide a pro-rata refund as it was no longer on 
risk for the trip. However, she said that this should also include a pro rata refund of the 
premium paid for the optional travel extension cover. Due to the deteriorating health of Mr O, 
which meant his future travelling plans were uncertain, she said that she thought it was fairer 
for Great Lakes to provide a cash refund. 
Great Lakes accepted our investigators view. But Mr and Mrs O didnt. They said they 
should receive a full refund of the premium as Great Lakes hadnt had to provide any service 
to them. And they commented that they didnt cancel the holiday, it was cancelled as a result 
of the government restrictions on travel - so they didnt think they should be penalised for 
this.
 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance/the policy terms and conditions
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). But these rules refer to the 
right to cancel within 14 days of taking out the policy  which didnt happen in this case. 
Even if cancellation had been made within that time period, as Great Lakes had been 
providing cover for the cancellation of the trip from the start date of the cover, Mr and Mrs O 
wouldnt have been entitled to a full refund of the premium. 
Ive also looked at the policy terms and conditions provided to Mr and Mrs O and their 
cancellation rights under this contract of insurance. These also refer to providing refunds if 
the request to cancel is made within 14 days of buying the policy. If the notice of cancellation 
is received after the 14 days have passed, the policy stipulates no premium will be refunded 
but discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances. 
Ive thought about this point carefully. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed 
within the policy are specific to the individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a 
change in a policyholders medical conditions  whereas the Covid-19 global pandemic has 
had a far-reaching impact, affecting a large number of Great Lakes policyholders. Im not 
persuaded that this type of situation is one which the policy term relating to discretion is 
intended to cover. 
So, based on the industry guidelines and the terms of the policy Mr and Mrs O purchased, 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs O arent entitled to a refund of their policy premiums.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
Whilst I dont think Mr and Mrs O are entitled to any refund of premiums under the terms and 
conditions of their contract with Great Lakes, Ive considered what I think is fair and 
reasonable taking into account all of the circumstances of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs O have said that their holiday plans were cancelled as a result of the 
government restrictions on travel at the time and so this is why the policy was cancelled. 
They dont think they should be penalised as a result. Its clear that Mr and Mrs Os planned 
trip  and therefore the need for this single trip insurance policy  changed due to 
circumstances outside of their control. So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and the terms and conditions of 
Mr and Mrs Os contract because of the exceptional and extraordinary circumstances 
surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. 
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Os contract with Great Lakes to 
be performed  cover under the policy started on 30 January 2019. This is because 
Mr and Mrs O werent just insured for the dates of travel. The premium charged by Great 
Lakes, including the optional travel disruption extension, also covered the risk of 
Mr and Mrs O having to cancel their holiday for one of the listed reasons that the policy 
covered. And this was from the date they took out the cover.Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the 
risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, 
regardless of what Mr and Mrs Os cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to 
retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
However, after the date the holiday was cancelled due to Covid-19, Great Lakes didnt bear 
any risk under Mr and Mrs Os insurance policy. And Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim in 
relation to the cancelled trip. Great Lakes was therefore no longer carrying the risk of the 
holiday being cancelled for any other insured reason. And, as the holiday was no longer 
going ahead, Great Lakes was also no longer carrying the risk of any claim being made 
while Mr and Mrs O were travelling abroad. 
Great Lakes offered Mr and Mrs O a pro-rata refund of the premium that they paid for their 
single trip travel insurance policy  calculated from the date the holiday was cancelled. The 
offer originally didnt include any refund of the optional travel disruption extension cover. 
Travel disruption extension cover includes extended cancellation benefits as well as 
extended curtailment, travel delay and enforced stay benefits. As Great Lakes was no longer 
covering the risk of a claim under the optional travel disruption extension cover from the date 
the holiday was cancelled, Im persuaded that the pro-rata refund should also include the 
premium that Mr and Mrs O paid for this additional cover option. Ive noted that Great Lakes 
has now agreed to recalculate the offer on this basis.
How the refund should be paid
In considering whether I think Great Lakes should make a pro-rata refund of their premiums 
by way of a voucher or a monetary refund, Ive thought about what would be fair and 
reasonable to both parties. 
It is important to note that it was Mr and Mrs Os decision to cancel the insurance policy  
although I understand their reasons for doing so. Mr and Mrs O entered into a contract with 
Great Lakes, paying a premium in return for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid 
claim occurring under the policy. Paying a refund by way of a voucher means the risk Great 
Lakes agreed to accept is moved to a future date.
Ordinarily, I would be of the opinion that a voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations 
attached to that voucher being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the 
circumstances. However, Mr and Mrs O have told us about changes to their health which 
have occurred since the policy was cancelled and, as a result of these changes, they dont 
think they will be able to travel abroad again in the near future, if at all  so they will not need 
travel insurance. Ive thought about how Mr and Mrs Os change in circumstances has 
impacted on their ability to travel and therefore utilise the voucher for future trips. And based 
on what weve been told about their health situation and the ongoing treatment needed, Im 
persuaded the pro-rata refund of premiums in this particular case should be made by way of 
a cash refund. 
The calculation of the voucher
Great Lakes has told us it doesnt break down the premium for the basic policy or the 
optional travel disruption extension cover based on the cover it provides pre-travel (if the trip 
has to be cancelled) and post-departure cover. Instead, it says the premium charged is split 
equally across the whole period of cover.
An insurer is entitled to decide how it calculates the premiums it charges taking into account 
factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood of claims 
arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly. Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating the 
premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the incidence 
of risk across the life of its single trip travel insurance policies. And Im satisfied that Great 
Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs O unfairly or any differently to other customers in similar 
circumstances.
The premium Mr and Mrs O paid for this policy was for a period of approximately 116 days 
from 30 December 2019 to the 23 April 2020. So, any pro-rata refund should equate to the 
premiums equivalent to 31 unused days of cover from 24 March 2020 until the original end 
date of the insurance policy on 23 April 2020.   
Putting things right
Great Lakes need to provide Mr and Mrs O with a pro-rata cash refund of the premium on 
the following basis;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the basic single trip insurance policy from 
the date the holiday was cancelled  which was 24 March 2020;
A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the optional travel disruption extension 
cover from the same date - 24 March 2020.
Great Lakes has already recalculated the value of the pro-rata refund for the policy and 
additional cover option to £82.61 using the dates detailed. And based on the information Ive 
seen Im satisfied that this offer is fair and reasonable.
  
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I uphold this complaint.
Great Lakes Insurance SE needs to put things right as Ive detailed above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman