DRN-4305304
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have unfairly refused to refund him 
all the funds that he lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything
again here. In summary, Mr T was in contact with a scammer through a dating site who 
convinced Mr T that he could make money by trading online. 
Mr T made more than 50 transaction totalling more than £50,000. These transactions were a 
combination of debit card payments and bank transfers and were made to cryptocurrency 
exchanges and other peoples personal bank accounts. My understanding is that the debit 
card payments to cryptocurrency exchanges were used to purchase cryptocurrency and 
were then transferred to a scam trading platform I will call B.
Subsequently, Mr T attempted to withdraw the funds from his trading account with B, but 
was unable to. At this point he realised he had been scammed.
When Mr T raised this with Barclays, it evntually refunded 50% of the value of the 
transactions with 8% simple interest (per annum) and made a £200 payment for the delays 
in Barclays investigation. Our investigator looked into this, and she thought that this was fair, 
she believed that Mr T had contributed to his own loss and had not done due diligence 
before making these transactions.
Mr T did not agree with this and therefore his complaint has been passed to me to issue a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Barclays should have intervened and prevented these payments; both 
parties agree with this. What is left for me to decide is whether the refund that Barclays has 
made is fair given the overall circumstances of this complaint.
Bank transfers
The payments that were bank transfers fall under the contingency reimbursement model 
(CRM). The starting point under the CRM is that a consumer should receive a refund of the 
money lost in a scam if certain conditions are met. That said though, there are exceptions to 
this. One of which is when a consumer made payments without a reasonable basis for 
believing that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment 
was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they 
transacted was legitimate.
In this instance Mr T met the scammer through a dating site and within a relatively short 
amount of time, without actually meeting the scammer in person, he was transferring large 
sums of money to a number of different payees.
I cant see that Mr T did any substantial research or carry out any checks to determine that 
the scammers representations were true. He seems to have placed a lot of trust in a short 
period with someone he did not really know. 
Firstly, he was guaranteed, during the initial transaction, a 30% profit, which seems 
unrealistic as there are few if any investments with high yields that have guaranteed returns 
and none that I am aware of at a rate of 30%. Whilst I appreciate that Mr T was not an 
experienced investor, at the same time I think that this guaranteed return should have made 
him question what he was being told, especially if he had done some basic research about 
Bitcoin and OKcoin as his representative has said that he did.
Secondly, after the first few transactions he was transferring funds to personal bank 
accounts with various different names attached to them. Again I think that Mr T should have 
questioned why, if he was dealing with a legitimate trading platform, he needed to keep 
entering different bank account details. Mr Ts representative has explained that Mr T did this 
because of individual trades on B. But it still doesnt seem like a normal way of trading and 
even someone with no or limited experience in trading should have questioned the 
legitimacy of sending funds directly to other peoples bank accounts, when he was supposed 
to be investing with a professional trading platform.
So overall I think that Mr Ts failure to apply common sense to the situation and his decision 
to participate in transactions, without question, that were clearly highly suspicious by their 
very nature, contributed to Mr Ts loss. I note what Mr Ts representative has said about Mr 
Ts personal circumstances and that it thinks that this made Mr T a vulnerable consumer, but 
Im not persuaded that he couldnt reasonably be expected to have protected himself from 
the scam because of the reasons provided or that they shouldve affected his decision-
making. I therefore think that a 50% deduction should be made due to the above in relation 
to the bank transfers.
Debit card payments
In relation to the debit card payments, there is a similar but slightly different approach. In this 
instance, there is a general principle that consumers must still take responsibility for their 
decision. So I need to consider whether Mr T was partly responsible for the losses he 
suffered.
Having considered everything, I am also of the opinion that a 50% reduction is fair for the 
debit card payments. I say this for broadly the same reasons as for the transfers. Which in 
summary, is that Mr T starting sending large amounts of funds and making payments to a 
fake trading platform on the advice of someone he had not met or known for a long time; he 
had not done sufficient research to check the legitimacy of the trading platform; he failed to 
notice that the returns promised were unrealistic; and did not question why he had to make 
multiple transfers directly to different parties or at the very least did not question the 
unpersuasive answer given by the scammer. 
So, whilst I am sorry to hear that Mr T was duped by a scammer, overall I think that the 50% 
deduction is fair, given the overall circumstances of this complaint as I think Mr T contributed 
to his own losses.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint as Barclays Bank UK PLC has already paid 
suitable compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman