DRN-4362023
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Chubb European Group SE (Chubb) has declined his claim.
What happened
Mr R has a personal accident insurance policy, underwritten by Chubb. 
He made a claim in 2022 following an accident and injuries he sustained abroad which 
Chubb declined as it said the accident happened outside of the specified geographical areas 
in the policy.
Unhappy, Mr R complained and referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Chubb had incorrectly or unfairly 
declined the claim.
Mr R disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He said the exclusion doesnt 
relate to section A or bodily injuries. And he had treatment in the UK which should be 
covered.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy has an exclusion which says: No benefits will be paid under this Policy for 
any Bodily Injury sustained or loss incurred whilst the Insured is outside Europe, the 
United States of America, Canada, Australia or New Zealand
Mr R had an accident where he sustained injuries in a country outside of Europe, the 
United States of America, Canada, Australia and New Zealand and so no benefit is 
payable under the policy.
Mr R says the exclusion is ambiguous because the exclusion doesnt say it applies to 
section A. And he received treatment in the UK for his injuries following his return. 
But the policy exclusion refers to benefits under this Policy which means the 
exclusion applies to all sections of the policy, including section A. So this policy 
would only pay a benefit under any of the sections if the bodily injury was sustained 
in Europe, the United States of America, Canada, Australia or New Zealand. 
As Mr Rs injuries were sustained in a country not listed here, there is no cover and 
so I dont think Chubb incorrectly or unfairly declined his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman