DRN-3624144
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited was irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
Mr S was provided with the following loans by Loans 2 Go:
Date taken Amount Term Monthly repayment Loan Status
Loan one 17/07/2017 £500 18 months £113.28 Settled Early
Loan two 02/08/2017 £500 18 months £113.28 Debt Sold
Mr S repaid loan one later in the same month. With regard to loan two, he struggled to make 
the repayments from the outset. He told Loans 2 Go that was because he was no longer 
able to work overtime.
In 2021 Mr S complained that Loans 2 Go hadnt carried out proper checks before lending to
him.
Loans 2 Go looked into his complaint. It didnt think it had done anything wrong but said it
would write off the outstanding balance of £183.14 in recognition of the fact that Mr Ss
circumstances had changed.
Mr S referred his complaint to us. 
An ombudsman at this service issued a provisional decision. She said that it wasnt 
appropriate for Loans 2 Go to use a net monthly income based on a high proportion of 
Mr Ss overtime payments in its affordability calculations. 
Loans 2 Go accepted the ombudsmans provisional findings. Mr S hasnt responded, but I 
assume he has no further comment to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were the previous ombudsmans findings:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ss complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr S would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ss ability to make the repayments under the loan 
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focussed  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, 
without failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial 
situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Loans 2 Go carried out a credit search before making the first loan. I assume it used the 
same credit search for the second loan a few weeks later. It showed that Mr S had recently 
taken out a loan of £4,170. I think Loans 2 Go should have enquired why he needed another 
loan within such a short time. Based on the credit search Loans 2 Go calculated that Mr S 
was paying about £758.50 a month in respect of his credit commitments. The search alsorevealed some historic defaults. The value of the account in default was £384 and it dated
from about 18 months previously.
Loans 2 Go verified Mr Ss income by checking three payslips. As a result, it was satisfied
that he had an average net income of £5,256.44 a month. Following a review of the
application, Loans 2 Go calculated that Mr Ss outgoings were £3,380.50. This suggested
that there would be more than enough disposable income to be able to afford the monthly
repayments Mr S was committed to making of £113.28.
I think Loans 2 Gos checks were proportionate given the size and term of the loans. But I
dont think Loans 2 Go responded appropriately to the information revealed by its checks.
Thats because Loans 2 Gos calculations of affordability were based on Mr S receiving
overtime pay which wasnt guaranteed. Loans 2 Go saw three of Mr Ss payslips for April to
June 2017. The April payslip showed a gross monthly income of £8.300.50 and this included
overtime pay of £2,901.80. The May payslip showed a gross monthly income of £7,473.20
and this included overtime pay of £1,992.81. Similarly in June his gross pay was £8,782.75
including overtime pay of £3,286.38. Broadly speaking without overtime Mr Ss net monthly
income would have been about a third less which works out about £3,469. That wouldnt
have left him with enough disposable income to make his loan repayments to Loans 2 Go.
I can see that Loans 2 Go ought to have been aware from the payslips that Mr Ss overtime
was variable. In these circumstances, I think it ought to have appreciated that a month
without overtime, or even with greatly reduced overtime, would make it difficult for Mr S to
meet his loan repayments. I dont think it was appropriate for Loans 2 Go to use a net
monthly income based on a high proportion of overtime payments in its affordability
calculations.
Ive also thought about whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in some other way and I havent
seen any evidence that it did.
I note that neither party has made any further comments and that Loans 2 Go accepted the 
provisional findings. I have carefully considered the matter and agree with my ombudsman 
colleagues provisional findings. Im happy to adopt them as my own findings. The findings 
are now final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
To put things right I think Loans 2 Go should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans.
Treat any payments made by Mr S as payments towards the capital amount.
If Mr S has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be 
refunded to him with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date 
of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Loans 2 Go should come to a 
reasonable repayment plan with Mr S.
If Loans 2 Go has sold the outstanding debt to a third-party it should do what it can 
to buy it back - if it cant, it cant deduct any outstanding balance from the redress 
and it then it needs to work with the third-party to bring about the steps above. 
remove any negative information about the loans from Mr Ss credit file.My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Loans 2 Go Limited to provide the remedy set out under 
Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman