DRN-3980164
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the adverse information Klarna Bank AB (publ) Klarna has recorded 
onto his credit file, in relation to a financing account he holds with it. 
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional
decision. In this I said: 
Mr D took out a financing account with Klarna on 31 March 2021. On the same day Mr D 
used the account to make a purchase totalling £477.47. Klarna issued a statement on 5 April 
2021 and sent Mr D an email notifying the statement was ready. This statement explained 
that the payment due date was 30 April 2021. It also advised that the easiest way to pay was 
by connecting a bank account and enabling automatic payments. 
It appears that on 28 April 2021, Mr D connected a bank account, and a direct debit payment 
was made. Then between May 2021 and July 2022 a total of 10 payments were missed and 
recorded as such onto Mr Ds credit file. Mr D has explained he became aware of the missed 
payments, when he noticed his credit file had declined.
Mr D complained to Klarna. He said that as far as he was aware he had a direct debit set up 
to make payments each months payment and therefore the missed payments should be 
removed. 
Klarna responded and said that while Mr D did have a direct debit mandate from April 2021, 
he hadnt enabled the autopay function. As a result, the direct debits werent automatically 
taken each month. Klarna explained that it had sent Mr D notification of this in June and 
December 2021. As the first notification of the autopay not being selected wasnt sent until 
June 2021, Klarna removed the late payment marker from May 2021.
Mr D remained unhappy with Klarnas response and brought his complaint to our service. He 
said he did have a direct debit set up and provided emails confirming this. He also explained 
that after receiving the autopay notifications of June and December 2021, he opened the 
Klarna app and was advised that no payment was scheduled. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and said that that while Mr D had missed 
payments, this was due to the confusion caused by the autopay option not being clearly set 
out. Mr D agreed. However, Klarna did not and said its emails each month to Mr D clearly 
set out that payments had been missed and what he needed to do to make payment. This 
included notification that autopay hadnt been enabled. Given this, Klarna believed it had 
sufficiently kept Mr D up to date with the situation regarding his monthly payments. 
Therefore, removing any further adverse information wouldnt accurately reflect Mr Ds 
payment history.
 
As Klarna didnt agree with the investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. I would like to point out Ive read and 
considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I 
dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think 
about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Klarna advised on each of the monthly statement emails it sent that the easiest way to pay 
is by connecting your bank account and enabling automatically payments. Im satisfied that 
Mr D did connect his bank account and have a direct debit set up. However, from the 
evidence thats been provided, I cant see that Mr D ever enabled autopay. 
When autopay is not enabled, the direct debit would only go through if it was manually 
requested each month by Mr D. I can see that Mr D did this on occasions and that thats why 
he didnt receive direct debit notifications that a payment had been scheduled every month. 
These notifications were only sent on the months Mr D manually requested payment, June 
2021 for example.
 
Klarna has provided evidence that it sent emails to Mr D in June and December 2021, to 
clarify that autopay wasnt set up on his account. These provided a link to set up autopay 
and I can see both emails were opened by Mr D shortly after being sent. Mr D has explained 
that when he received these notifications, the Klarna app advised him no payment was 
scheduled. He therefore didnt believe he needed to do anything more, given a direct debit 
was in place. 
Klarna has advised that when both the June and December 2021 notifications were sent, 
these were sent after the payment due date on the previous statement and before the next 
statement had been sent. Therefore, during that specific timeframe, it was correct that no 
payment was shown as being due. I understand Mr Ds frustrations with this. But overall, Im 
satisfied that Klarna did enough to make Mr D aware that he didnt have autopay enabled. 
And that as a result, direct debit payments wouldnt be automatically made.
 
Mr D was also made aware via the emailed monthly statements that he was missing 
payments. These clearly advised that Klarna didnt receive the last payment and that £12 
late payment fees had been applied. I can see that most of the monthly statement emails 
were opened by Mr D.
 
In addition, Klarna also sent app push notifications, and in 2022 text messages, to remind 
payment was still due for months where no payment had been made and the due date was 
approaching. These again were mostly opened and reviewed by Mr D. So, I believe he was 
made aware payments had been missed. I wouldve expected Mr D to have contacted 
Klarna regarding his direct debit payments as soon as it was clear these were being missed. 
However, despite the numerous notifications sent to Mr D, this didnt happen until July 2022.
Klarna has removed the missed payment from May 2021. Given this was before Klarna 
issued any notification to clarify the position regarding the autopay feature, I believe it fair 
this is removed. However, taking the above into consideration I dont think that Klarna has 
acted unfairly in recorded the remaining adverse information it has. Im satisfied whats been 
recorded is a true and accurate reflection of how Mr Ds account was run.
 
I invited both parties to respond with new information they wanted me to consider before I
made my final decision.Klarna confirmed it accepted the provisional decision and had no further evidence to put 
forward.
Mr D disagreed and in summary said: 
The autopay feature was enabled on his account, as some payments were 
authorised. 
His Klarna app and emails from Klarna showed that he didnt need to do anything 
more as a direct debit had been scheduled.  
The information received from Klarna regarding the autopay feature and direct debit 
confirmation emails was both confusing and misleading.
Klarna hasnt been able to explain why some monthly payments were taken and not 
others. 
He has a very good credit history and wouldnt have been careless to miss payments 
on this account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out my provisional findings on this complaint as set out above and I havent been 
persuaded that my decision should change. I will though set out my thoughts on Mr Ds reply 
to my provisional decision.
Mr D had a direct debit set up, but this would only be taken when manually requested each 
month. For it to be automated monthly, Mr D needed to have enabled autopay. I appreciate 
Mr D feels he did and that is why some payments were taken. However, on balance I dont 
believe this to be the case. Had the autopay been set up, then Klarna wouldnt have sent the 
two notifications it did advising no autopay feature had been enabled. 
I dont dispute that Mr D has made some payments towards his account. I can see that 
payments were made in April, June, September, and November 2021. Then also in March 
and July 2022.
However, as I said above and in my provisional decision, I believe these payments were only 
made when Mr D manually requested the direct debit for those actual months. Thats why on 
these months, and not the months where payments were missed, he received notification 
that a direct debit payment had been scheduled. 
I acknowledge Mr D feels this is confusing and misleading. Klarna sent notifications which 
made Mr D aware the autopay wasnt enabled. In addition, Mr Ds monthly statements were 
sent via email monthly and he accessed most of these. These statements made it clear 
payments had been missed. Taking this into consideration, I remain satisfied that Klarna did 
enough to make the situation sufficiently clear. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mr D was hoping for, but for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision and above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against Klarna Bank AB (publ).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman