DRN-3061708
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car he bought with the help of a loan from Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc was not of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the car and end the loan agreement.   
What happened
In August 2018 Mr B bought a car from a dealer, which Ill call V. To pay for the car, he took 
out a loan with Santander, arranged through V.  
Mr B explained that, after about eight months, he started experiencing problems with the car. 
It would often not start. V examined the car but was unable to replicate the fault that Mr B 
described. 
Mr B said this happened on a number of occasions. Each time, V said it was unable to 
identify any fault and, therefore, was unable to repair it. It carried out software updated and 
routine maintenance (for example, a fuse was replaced), and, in January 2020, it replaced 
the brake servo. But it could not identify any reason for the car not starting as it should. 
Mr B referred the matter to this service. Initially, one of our investigators considered it. He 
thought, given what Mr B had said about the car, there must be an inherent fault with it. As 
the problems had recurred, despite the efforts of V, he recommended that Mr B be allowed 
to reject the car. 
Santander did not accept the investigators view. It said that that it had not been established 
that the car was faulty at delivery. It offered to arrange an independent inspection of the car 
to try to resolve matters. Mr B did not agree to that.
The complaint was then referred to one of my ombudsman colleagues. He issued two 
provisional decisions. In the first, issued in May of this year, he indicated that he was not 
minded to uphold the complaint. Whilst he did not doubt what Mr B had said about the 
problems with the car, he noted that there was no additional evidence  such as breakdown 
reports or repair invoices. 
In response to the first provisional decision, Mr B sent two videos from 26 May and 27 June 
2021. Both appeared to show the car failing to start. The first ombudsman reviewed the case 
again and, largely on the basis of this new evidence, reached a different provisional 
conclusion. He noted that Mr B had sent the car for repairs on the day after the first video 
was recorded. He did not however have much detail of the work done as he had not been 
responsible for the cost. 
The first ombudsman concluded that the videos provided evidence to support Mr Bs case 
that the car had had problems from quite early on. He should therefore be allowed to reject it 
and to end the finance agreement. 
Santander sent the videos to V for further comment. V said that they did not show a fault 
with the car. They were consistent with the key having a flat battery; it was not clear either 
that Mr B was depressing the cars brake pedal at the same time he tried to start the engine. 
It believed the car was functioning as it should and offered to inspect it again. Vs comments 
were shared with Mr B, who reiterated that the car had given him problems for a long time, 
despite Vs efforts to resolve the issues. Those problems remained. 
The first ombudsman is not in a position to complete his final review of the case, and so it 
has been passed to me.               
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the first ombudsman explained, the loan used to buy the car was set up as a result of 
arrangements between Santander and V. The conditions set out in section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act are met, which in turn means that Santander is jointly liable with V for 
any breach of contract or misrepresentation. The first ombudsman also noted that, under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015, V was under a duty to provide a car that was of satisfactory 
quality  meaning of the quality a reasonable person would expect in the circumstances. 
The first ombudsman noted as well that, where a fault occurs within the first six months, it is 
for the supplier of goods to show that they were of satisfactory quality at the point of delivery. 
In this case, Mr B first reported a problem after eight months. 
The first ombudsman initially said that he was not minded to uphold Mr Bs complaint. He did 
not doubt Mr Bs account of events or that he had experienced faults. But, he said, there was 
a lack of information about the cars condition at delivery. V had been unable to replicate any 
error, despite having the car back on several occasions. 
The additional evidence submitted by Mr B following the first provisional decision comprises 
two videos which he took showing him trying to start the car. V has cast some doubt on what 
they demonstrate. 
Vs response to the videos might be interpreted as an accusation that Mr B was not being 
entirely honest about what happened. I have no reason however to think that there is any 
dishonesty in what he has told us. However, I do not believe that I can safely conclude from 
two short videos taken by Mr B himself that the first ombudsmans first provisional decision 
was incorrect. In short, they do not in my view take matters very much further. 
Whilst Mr B has said that the problem with the car not starting occurred on several 
occasions, even his own evidence is that the problem is intermittent. V has said that it has 
been unable to replicate the problem  which I take to mean that the car has started as it 
should whenever V has had the opportunity to inspect it. Of course, both Mr B and V can be 
correct in what they have said about that. 
In order to uphold Mr Bs complaint in the way he wishes, however, I need to be satisfied 
that the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him in August 2018 and 
that it would be fair to allow him to reject it and to end the loan agreement. There is however 
very little evidence about the work that has been done on the car, and even less that 
demonstrates a fault of the nature he has described at the time of delivery. 
There has been no independent inspection of the car and no expert opinion expressed about 
its likely condition at delivery. But, even if there were an independent inspection, it seems 
quite possible that it would once again be impossible to replicate the problems Mr B has 
described. As I have said, I do not disbelieve Mr Bs account of events. In the circumstances, however, I 
do not believe I can safely conclude that the car was not of satisfactory quality at delivery. It 
follows that I cannot fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to do anything more 
to resolve Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman