DRN-1239594
The complaint
Mr K complains PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) have refused to refund his 
money for a disputed transaction.
What happened
Mr K brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy with PayPals refusal to refund his 
money and their response when he complained. PayPal didnt uphold his complaint. They 
said their records showed Mr K bought an item from a third party  who Ill call the 
merchant for ease of reference  using PayPal and had later opened a non receipt claim 
indicating hed hadnt received the item. PayPal said Mr Ks case had been reviewed and 
determined in accordance with the provisions of their User Agreement (UA). They said the 
merchant had provided them with proof of Delivery which they defined in the UA as meaning 
online documentation from a postal company which included
a)Status of delivered. And the date of delivery.
b)The recipients address, showing at least the city, county or postcode
PayPal said the online tracking information from the postal company here showed the item 
delivered, the date of delivery and delivery to the recipient's location.
Our investigator didnt uphold the compliant. From the evidence hed seen he was 
persuaded PayPal had followed the terms of the UA. So he didnt think it would be fair to ask 
them to cover the cost of the purchase.
Mr K disagreed and told us hed like to appeal the investigators view. He sent us 
documentation which he said proved he wasnt at his house when the postal company 
claimed to have delivered the item, on 6 June 2019 at 11.55am. He reiterated the points hed 
made when he initially brought his complaint to this service as follows:
He lives alone and wasnt at home at the time the item is recorded as delivered on 
the postal companys proof of delivery;
He sent us shopping receipts and the location history from a social media account in 
his name to show he was out of his home between the times of 11.40am and 
12.16pm on 6 June 2019;
He sent a  copy of his driving licence showing the difference between it and the 
signature shown on the postal companys tracking form, which he says isnt his;
Hed reported the loss to the police and another agency.
 
Mr K asked for PayPal to provide him with a full refund for the disputed item for the grief and 
inconvenience this incident had caused him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to say at the outset that what Im looking at here is Mr Ks dispute with Paypal - 
not the merchant. Im looking at whether Paypal have done anything wrong here. So my 
starting point is to look at whether theyve acted in line with the agreement - the terms and 
conditions - between them and Mr K, which here is the UA. And, like the investigator, Im 
satisfied, from the information before me, that PayPal have done that here.
Whilst I have sympathy for the situation Mr K finds himself in, Im not deciding the underlying 
dispute between Mr K and the merchant. I realise that Mr Ks unhappy with the merchant - 
hes paid a significant amount of money for an item hed never received. But what Im 
looking at is the dispute between Mr K and Paypal, not what the merchant may or may not 
have done. And Paypals responsibility was to act in line with the UA. They received proof of 
delivery as required by the UA, so I dont think they need to do anything further here.
Given how strongly Mr K feels about whats happened he may want to pursue the matter 
further through other routes or against other parties - I can see hes reported the matter to 
the police and his own bank. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve 
his dispute with PayPal informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr K.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman