DRN-1488572
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) wont deal with his 
home insurance claim for earthquake damage to his property.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr R made a claim to LV following what he believed to be earthquake 
damage to his property after local fracking activity. It wasnt disputed that an earthquake 
happened in late August 2019. The fracking company inspected the damage and determined 
that it wasnt possible to say that the external cracks in the property were caused by the 
companys activities. It sent a cheque for £500 as a goodwill gesture, without admission of 
liability.
LV appointed a structural engineer to consider the damage to the property,. He concluded 
that the internal damage was primarily slight cracking, appeared to be generally 
longstanding and typically related to differential thermal and moisture movement between 
various materials. Externally, he found significant cracking within the brickwork to the front 
bay. This had been previously modified by the construction of a two storey corner brick pier. 
He believed this was the cause of the cracking. In the front elevation, he said there was 
slight cracking to the rendered panel, and to the rear elevation, slight cracking of the render 
at the location of construction joints and between window openings. He determined that this 
was indicative of shrinkage or thermal movement. He found the damage to be of no 
structural significance.
At Mr Rs request the engineer made a further visit to the property in November 2019, as he 
believed the damage had got worse, confirmed by his window cleaner who had visited the 
property regularly. He also pointed out that any modifications happened in 2000 before he 
bought the property. The engineer didnt change his view. Based on this LV said it wouldnt 
be accepting the claim. It said Mr R was welcome to appoint a structural engineer himself, 
but it wouldnt pay for any such report.
On referral to this service our investigator said that in the absence of any expert evidence 
disputing LVs expert, he couldnt uphold the complaint. He couldnt place any weight on the 
non-expert evidence Mr R had provided. He further said that from his research the reading of 
the magnitude of the tremor would seem to indicate it was weak.
Mr R said his window cleaners evidence couldnt be dismissed  he had detailed knowledge 
of what the property was like both before and after the earthquake. He further said that the 
evidence the investigator quoted of the earthquakes magnitude was wrong, and came from 
a scientist he believed had been discredited, appointed by the fracking company. He said 
that a nearby resident had had a claim for earthquake accepted.
. 
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whether there is structural damage to a property and whether that was caused by something 
covered under the policy is highly technical. Whilst the evidence from the fracking company 
is self-serving and the engineer was appointed by LV, nevertheless especially the latter is 
expert evidence from a structural engineer. He specifically found that the damage internally 
was longstanding and minor and could be repaired by redecoration. He found that the 
external damage wasnt caused by an earthquake and was either related to the modification 
to the bay window or, in other areas, by shrinkage or thermal movement.
I appreciate Mr R says the property was redecorated inside in 2017 and that the modification 
to the bay window dates back nearly 20 years. But the engineer was made aware of this and 
reconfirmed his views. This service doesnt provide expert surveyors or engineers evidence 
and in a case like this we have to rely on such expert evidence as there is. That expert 
evidence indicates that there is no cover under the policy for this as the damage wasnt 
caused by the earthquake.
I fully understand that Mr R says the damage only occurred after the earthquake. It does 
appear that LV did consider the map of local claims and took this into account. But in respect 
of the nearby resident making a claim I cant take account of that as we dont know the 
circumstances of the damage.
Mr R was invited by LV to obtain his own structural engineers report. Whilst I can 
understand his reluctance to bear the cost of this, especially as LV wont pay it unless it is 
persuaded to deal with the claim because of it, I cant see that there is any other step Mr R 
can take. On the evidence in front of me I have two reports from LVs structural engineer 
both of which say the damage isnt related to the earthquake.
I note Mr Rs comments about the magnitude of the earthquake. As this isnt mentioned by 
LVs structural engineer and any evidence on this point is anecdotal, I shant take any 
account of it.
On the basis of my findings Im afraid I cant uphold Mr Rs complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman