DRN-2324291
The complaint
Mrs K says HSBC UK Bank plc, mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI) with a 
credit card she took out in 1996. She says she didnt need any PPI.
What happened
The PPI insured Mrs K against losing her job or being unable to work. The policy was closed 
together with the card account, in 2005. 
One of our adjudicators assessed Mrs Ks complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. She 
disagreed and so her complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Im afraid Ive decided 
not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
This sale was quite some time ago, and perhaps not surprisingly, HSBC hasnt been able to 
send me any of the original documents used in the card or PPI sale. Neither do we know 
how the policy was sold to Mrs K, for example via a postal application, or face-to-face in a 
bank branch. Because of the lack of documentation, my decision is therefore based on the 
balance of probabilities i.e. whats more likely to have happened.
I do appreciate how hard it might be for Mrs K to remember that far back, but my experience 
of these types of PPI sale is that consumers were normally asked whether they agreed to 
the PPI being added to their credit card. Obviously, I cant say this definitely happened here, 
but I think its more likely that it did, because thats what Ive seen in many similar cases. 
And when she was sold the PPI, I think Mrs K would have most likely been sent or given 
something explaining the policy rules. I also think shed have been able to see the PPI being 
charged regularly on her monthly credit card statements from the point of sale onwards.
So, whilst I accept Mrs K may genuinely not remember this, I think its more likely she 
agreed to the cover and would have been able to see it being charged over quite a long 
period of time.
For the same reasons as above, its unclear whether this was an advised sale. If it was, 
then this means HSBC had a duty to make sure the policy was suitable for Mrs Ks 
circumstances. I think it probably was suitable.
I say this because I think she was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main 
exclusions we tend to see in these policies. Looking at the price of the PPI, I think it was 
affordable for her. Mrs K told us she had some sickness protection already with her job and 
she implied she didnt really need any PPI. Ive thought about this and I understand her 
point, but Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt suitable for her. In the 
event of a successful claim, Mrs K would have been able to have her outstanding balance 
reduced by 10% each month for up to 12 months. This would have been in addition to any 
other means she had at the time.
Mrs K said she could also have sold some assets or get help from relatives if she got in to 
any difficulties with her credit card account. Again, I understand the point being made, but I 
think she agreed to the policy and I dont think relying on these other things is comparable 
with having insurance. 
Overall, I think the cover was suitable for Mrs Ks situation.
HSBC also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading at the point of 
sale. However due to the time thats passed, I cant confirm whether Mrs K was told 
everything she should have been told and its certainly possible HSBC could have done 
more. But that doesnt change how I view this complaint. For me to uphold this case, Id 
need to think there were serious flaws in the way the PPI was sold. I simply dont have that 
information. I accept weve got very little hard evidence left to refer to, but what Ive seen 
makes me think its more likely the policy wasnt mis-sold. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank plc does not have to pay back the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs K.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman