DRN-2706581
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Great Lakes Insurance SE dealt with a claim under a legal 
expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A became involved in a dispute with his landlord including but not limited to alleged 
breaches of a lease and increased service charges. For context Mr A moved into a shared 
ownership property around June 2019 with a long lease.
Great Lakes declined to cover the claim because of a general exclusion in the policy that 
excludes any legal costs relating to a claim or leading to civil proceedings including; 
Leases, licences, tenancies and disputes between landlord and tenant.
Any dispute arising from a contract entered into prior to the legal expenses policy 
starting.
Great Lakes said the dispute was one between landlord and tenant (Mr A) and so fell into 
the general exclusion. As did the fact that the contract Mr A entered into started in June 
2019, which was a moth or more before his policy started. 
Our investigator didnt think Great Lakes had done anything wrong. She explained it was 
clear the lease was entered into before the policy started and so on that alone there was no 
cover for Mr As dispute. But she also said that while Mr A didnt consider himself a tenant, 
that was irrelevant to the outcome because of when the lease contract started. Mr A asked 
that an ombudsman make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant parts of the policy come under the general exclusions. If Mr As dispute 
concerns a lease and dispute between him as tenant and the landlord theres no cover. 
Great Lakes has chosen to specifically exclude such costs. And even if the dispute doesnt 
relate to such matters, if the dispute concerns a contract entered into before the legal 
expenses policy was taken out then legal costs related to that are specifically excluded.  
It is very clear that the contract which is the foundation of the relationship at the heart of 
Mr As dispute (a lease) commenced more than a month before his legal expenses policy 
started. On that alone his claim isnt covered by the policy. 
I note from Mr As correspondence that he says a dispute about a fence didnt arise until the 
end of 2019 when, in his own words, the Landlord sought to vary the lease which said there 
would be a fence. And, among other matters, hes unhappy at the Landlord increasing the 
service charges. 
The nature of the shared ownership scheme is that Mr A bought a percentage of the 
property and the Landlord owns the remainder, which Mr A rents from the Landlord. There is 
a lease document that sets out the responsibilities of each party and it is usual that the 
Landlord can take action against the leaseholder in certain circumstances, including 
repossession where for example the rent is unpaid. I am satisfied there was a landlord and 
tenant relationship between Mr A and the party he wanted to take action against. And Im 
also satisfied the issues at the heart of his dispute concern issues under the lease between 
Mr A and the Landlord.
Based on how Mr A presented his claim to Great Lakes, I am satisfied it was entitled to 
reject the claim as excluded by the policy terms. I understand Mr A feels the policy is 
worthless but there are many situations he would be covered for including some matters 
relating to his property  its just legal costs relating to the lease and disputes with his 
landlord are not. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman