DRN-3120782
The complaint
Ms M complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined a claim she made under 
the rent guarantee part of her Landlord Insurance policy.  
What happened
Ms M paid an additional premium to include rent guarantee cover on her 
Landlords Insurance policy.
She had a tenant from November 2019. In April 2020, the tenant stopped paying rent 
after they lost their job. Although a new job was obtained in June/July 2020, the tenant 
still didnt pay rent and vacated the property in October 2020. Ms M notified Direct Line 
(the insurance brand) about the arrears, but due to the pandemic she was told she 
couldnt claim immediately. But once the tenant vacated the property Ms M submitted a 
claim for the lost rent, amounting to over £4,000 and some damage which had been 
caused.
It isnt clear whether the claim for damage has been pursued or paid (and weve not been 
asked to consider that), but UKI declined the claim initially because Ms M couldnt 
provide the references obtained but when they were provided, there was no credit check. 
Cover for the rent guarantee was contingent on satisfactory references being obtained  
which was to include a credit check. As the references didnt include a credit check, UKI 
declined the claim.
Our investigator didnt think UKI had declined the claim fairly. The requirement for a 
credit check wasnt a legal requirement, and she wasnt persuaded this requirement 
had been brought to Ms Ms attention when taking out the policy. She also referred to 
the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook saying that a claim shouldnt be 
declined if the circumstances of the claim are unconnected to the breach  here the 
tenant had unexpectedly lost their job and not something a credit check might have 
given advance notice of.
UKI asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. It was satisfied:
The term was clearly set out in the policy document and is a requirement of most, 
if not all commercial landlord policies.
As a commercial landlord the policyholder would be expected to read and be 
familiar with the terms of the policy before accepting cover.
It cannot ignore the terms simply because the policy holder was unaware of them, 
or because the letting agent failed to carry out the necessary checks required by 
the cover.
On 6 October 2021, I issued my provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold 
this complaint. I said:
Usually claims for rent guarantee are operational within a certain period of time of the 
insured becoming aware of the insured incident  the non-payment of rent. Im pleased 
to see that UKI has taken into account the information Ms M was provided with about 
not being able to pursue a claim sooner due to the pause in possession activities during 
the pandemic.
Section 8: Commercial Legal Expenses, part K sets out that:
1. We will pay Your Rent Arrears while Your tenant or ex-tenant still 
occupies the property.
Provided that:
In both 1 and 2 You have
i obtained a satisfactory reference* for each tenant and each guarantor 
from a licensed referencing service before the tenancy started, 
*The reference must include: a written reference from a previous managing 
agent or landlord, an employer (or any other financial source); and a credit 
history check (including the Enforcement of Judgments Office, County Court 
Judgments and bankruptcy).
And Rent Arrears is defined as:
Unpaid rent that is owed to You under a tenancy agreement, or would have 
been owed to You but for the breach of a tenancy agreement to let Your 
property where DAS have accepted Your claim under insured incident J (b) 
repossession.
J essentially sets out that cover for costs and expenses will be provided to pursue 
legal rights to obtain possession of the premises, provided that, where appropriate 
all statutory and contractual notices had been correctly served on the tenant.
As pointed out above, Ms M did contact Direct Line about her claim but was advised a 
claim couldnt start and she couldnt serve an eviction notice due to the pandemic. So it 
wasnt possible for Ms M to comply with a requirement to serve any contractual or 
statutory notices. And although the halt on the eviction process was lifted in September 
2020, the tenant left in October 2020, and so it wouldnt have been appropriate to start 
that process. I therefore dont fairly find this should be a barrier to Ms M being able to 
claim under the Rent Guarantee part of cover.
The requirement for a credit check is typical of landlord policies Ive seen and to that 
extent I wouldnt consider it unusual; a credit check will give an indication of the credit 
worthiness of
a prospective tenant and the risk of them falling into arrears (although it isnt clear that 
any cover is contingent on a good credit check). Nevertheless, I understand the Rent 
Guarantee is an optional extra that Ms M paid an additional premium for. As such, even 
though this is a commercial policy, I think it fair and reasonable that any requirements 
which make cover operational should have fairly been brought to her attention. UKI 
hasnt provided any evidence that happened here.
But even if it had, I still dont find it has declined the claim fairly. Although the 
investigator referred to Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook, the specific part 
she relied on is only relevant to consumer contracts, which this isnt  Ms M is a 
commercial policyholder and so not a consumer in relation to this matter. So its the provisions of the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act) which are relevant to my consideration of 
whether this claim has been fairly declined.
Part 3, section 11 of the Act, Term not relevant to the actual loss, says:
(1) This section applies to a term (express or implied) on a contract of 
insurance, other than a term defining the risk as a whole, if compliance with 
it would tend to reduce the risk of one or more of the following-
(a) loss of a particular kind,
(b) loss at a particular location
(c) loss at a particular time
(2) If a loss occurs, and the term has not been complied with, the insurer 
may not rely on the non-compliance to exclude, limit or discharge its 
liability under the contract for the loss if the insured satisfies subsection 
(3).
(3) The insured satisfies this subsection if it shows that the non-compliance 
with the term could not have increased the risk of the loss which actually 
occurred in the circumstances in which it occurred.
UKI has declined Ms Ms claim on the basis that the references obtained for the tenant 
didnt include a credit check. However, I understand it was as a result of the tenant losing 
their job that meant they fell into arrears rather than any general credit worthiness or 
management of finances concerns. The reference from the previous landlord indicated the 
tenant had always paid on time and never went into arrears. It doesnt seem to me, 
therefore, that the lack of a credit check increased the risk to the insurer of having to pay 
rent arrears in the circumstances in which they arose  the tenant losing their job. Under 
the provisions of the Act, UKI isnt able to rely on the non-compliance of obtaining a credit 
check to exclude Ms Ms claim. I therefore find the claim has been declined unfairly and 
not in accordance with the Act.
If UKI believes that Ms M not obtaining a credit check has increased its risk of the loss 
occurring, in the circumstances in which it occurred  the tenant losing their job  it will need 
to provide an explanation of why in response to my provisional findings. 
Putting matters right
Im currently minded to uphold this complaint and require U K Insurance to:
Pay Ms Ms claim from the date of the first rental arrears until she gained 
vacant possession of the property; and
Add 8% simple interest per annum from the date UKI declined the claim until the 
date of settlement.
If UKI believes there is any other term or condition which means this claim isnt covered, 
or is excluded or limited in some way, I ask it to let me know in response to this 
provisional decision.
Ms M has confirmed she has nothing further to add. UKI has replied that it disagrees with my 
decision. In summary, it has said:
The ombudsman is suggesting it ignores a fundamental part of the policy which is 
sold on the basis of risk. Whilst a credit check wouldnt have prevented the tenant 
from losing their job, it would have provided an indication of their credit status which 
may have allowed them to potentially obtain a loan or other means of credit/savings 
which would have allowed the payment of rent by other means.The requirement was made clear in the policy wording. It remains of the view this 
didnt need to be brought to insureds attention, especially as it was additional option 
to the cover. 
Ms M failed to carry out sufficient checks to qualify for Rent Guarantee cover and 
therefore it is unwilling to indemnify the losses. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not minded to reach different findings to those set out in my provisional 
decision. I will, nevertheless, respond to UKIs points. 
UKI has argued that I suggest it ignores a fundamental part of the policy which is sold on the 
basis of risk. But I havent said that in my decision. What I cited were the provisions of the 
Insurance Act 2015, which set out that an insurer may not rely on the non-compliance of a 
term if that non-compliance could not have increased the risk of the loss which actually 
occurred in the circumstances in which it occurred. 
I fully accept a credit check would have given an indication of the tenants credit status at the 
time of embarking on the tenancy.  But it doesnt necessarily follow that a persons score 
couldnt have changed in the meantime (and it remains that there is nothing within the policy 
that requires cover to be contingent on a good credit check).  And UKI accepts that a credit 
check wouldnt have prevented the loss of the tenants job, which is the reason for the 
arrears arising. 
I do take its point a good credit score might have allowed the tenant to potentially obtain a 
loan or other credit/means of paying the rent. But it doesnt seem to me that it has taken 
account of the situation at the time or of a lenders obligation to lend responsibly and 
sustainably in making that argument. The tenant had lost their job, and so their credit 
worthiness would have dropped substantially as a result. That of itself would have meant 
being able to borrow was unlikely, particularly as it would have been unclear how much the 
tenant might have needed to borrow (as they wouldnt have known how long they would be 
unemployed for). And given that the country was at the beginning of the pandemic and many 
businesses were required to close and staff were either furloughed or made redundant, I find 
it highly unlikely that a lender would have felt it appropriate to lend to a person who had lost 
their job when the chances of re-employment at that particular time were low.  It follows that I 
dont find UKIs arguments persuasive. 
Finally, I remain of the view that the requirement to have credit check carried out on the 
tenant ought to have been brought to Ms Ms attention. To use its own words sufficient 
checks in order to qualify for Rent Guarantee cover, as Ms M needed to take specific steps 
to qualify for optional cover she needed to pay an extra premium for, I find it fair that ought 
to have been brought to her attention. UKI hasnt provided any information to show it did so. 
Having considered the further arguments made carefully, my findings remain that UKI has 
unfairly and unreasonably declined Ms Ms claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K 
Insurance Limited to:Pay Ms Ms claim from the date of the first rental arrears until she gained vacant 
possession of the property; and
Add 8% simple interest per annum on that sum from the date UKI declined the claim, 
to the date of settlement (less and tax lawfully deductible). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman