DRN-2752078
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) didnt do enough to help her when she fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In October 2019 Mrs Fs husband had been 
trading with a company Ill refer to as D. Mrs F wanted to make a similar investment and 
attempted payments on her debit card. All the relevant payments were to another company 
J who provide a cryptocurrency exchange / wallet who would then make transfers to D. 
BoS were concerned that Mrs F might be attempting the payments as a result of a fraud or 
scam. The initial payments were blocked and BoS spoke to Mrs F. Mrs F confirmed she 
believed D to be genuine as her husband had been able to make withdrawals. Following this 
conversation BoS required Mrs F to attend a branch as they still werent happy. When Mrs F 
attended the branch BoS again advised her against making the payments as they were 
concerned it was a scam. They also invoked the Banking Protocol and the police were 
called. BoS maintained they had concerns, but Mrs F insisted the payments were made. 
Ultimately, Mrs F made two payments of £5,000 using her debit card. Mrs F says the police 
had informed her that it was unlikely to be a scam if her husband had been able to make 
withdrawals. Mrs F says she later realised that D were operating a scam when she was 
unable to make contact with them nor withdraw any funds. She contacted BoS and asked 
them to reimburse her.
BoS said theyd explored the option of a chargeback. But as the payments had been made 
to J (who operate a legitimate service) they said this wasnt an option. They also felt theyd 
done enough to alert Mrs F to the possibility of a scam and that ultimately it was her decision 
to authorise the payments on her debit card. 
Mrs F complained and the matter was referred to our service. One of our investigators didnt 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought BoS had acted fairly in the 
circumstances. As she disagrees, Mrs F has asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F is correct that banks have obligations to prevent fraud and to act in their customers 
best interests. In the circumstances here, I think BoS have broadly speaking done what Id 
expect of them. Theyve identified payments outside of the usual pattern of account usage 
which presented an increased risk of financial harm from fraud to Mrs F. Theyve then taken 
steps to try to protect Mrs F from that.
This included blocking her account and the police being called to a branch along with several 
conversations with Mrs F warning her and highlighting the risk associated with the payments. 
In the circumstances of this case, I think BoS did enough to highlight the risks involved to 
Mrs F. Its clear from the calls Ive listened to that Mrs F was determined to make the 
payments, and Im not persuaded any further reasonable level of intervention by BoS would 
have made a difference to her decision to make the payments concerned. I dont think this is 
a case where BoS had enough to continue to go against Mrs Fs instructions and refuse to 
make the payments altogether. 
I appreciate Mrs F was going through a stressful period around the time of the payments and 
also that she might have taken reassurance from what the police said to her. But I cant hold 
BoS responsible for any advice she received from elsewhere. 
As I dont think BoS were wrong to allow Mrs F to make the payments, Ive gone on to 
consider if they did enough when Mrs F reported that it was a scam after all. The only option 
for debit card payments such as those involved here is a chargeback. 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme whereby a card scheme will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. Our role in such 
cases is not to second-guess the schemes arbitration decisions or rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. BoS) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
The rules of the scheme and the evidence requirements are very specific. I wouldnt expect 
BoS to pursue a chargeback where there wasnt a reasonable prospect of it succeeding. In 
this case the payments Mrs F made went to J who provide a cryptocurrency exchange. BoS 
concluded that it was likely J would evidence theyd provided the service requested of them. 
That is theyd accepted Mrs Fs payment and passed it on (in whatever format) to D. As 
such, I think that BoS decision to not pursue a chargeback was reasonable. I agree its most 
likely that J would have evidenced theyd done what was asked and that a chargeback 
wouldve been unlikely to have succeeded. Im satisfied that J are a genuine business and a 
chargeback can only be made to the merchant that received the funds. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I dont think BoS could have done more to prevent the 
loss that Mrs F has suffered. Im of course sorry to hear she has lost this money, but as I 
dont think BoS are responsible for this, Im not going to require them to do anything further 
to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman