DRN-3821339
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited handled a claim he made on a 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr M was added to his employers private medical insurance policy. The 
policy shouldve been set-up on medical history disregarded terms. But AXA didnt check 
this with the employers broker and the policy was wrongly set-up on moratorium terms.
A short time later, Mr M made a claim on his policy for anxiety caused by the Covid-19 
pandemic. AXA assessed the claim in line with its moratorium terms.  It turned down Mr Ms 
claim. Thats because it said hed experienced symptoms of anxiety in the five years before 
the policy began, which was specifically excluded by the terms of the moratorium.
Mr M was unhappy with AXAs decision and he appealed. But AXA maintained its position.
In October 2021, Mr M got back in touch with AXA. Hed spoken to his employer, which had 
told him that his policy shouldve been set-up on medical history disregarded terms. AXA 
accepted it had made an error; accepted Mr Ms claim for therapy and paid Mr M £500 
compensation for the upset its mistake had caused him.
Mr M didnt think AXAs offer of compensation went far enough. In brief, he said that after the 
claim had been declined, hed suffered constant, severe panic attacks; hed felt suicidal and 
he wasnt able to eat much. So he asked us to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator recommended that AXA should increase its total award of compensation to 
£1250 (less the amount it had already paid). He considered evidence Mr Ms psychologist 
had provided which explained that earlier therapy intervention may have reduced the 
severity of Mr Ms symptoms. And that earlier intervention may have prevented some of Mr 
M's checking behaviours becoming entrenched. He felt AXAs actions had caused Mr M 
substantial distress and worry over a sustained period of time.
AXA made a new offer of compensation of £4000. It said this broadly represented £100 for 
each week where its administrative error had caused the authorisation of Mr Ms claim to be 
delayed. It also said that to date, it had paid for 50 therapy sessions.
Mr M turned down AXAs new offer. He said the pain and discomfort hed suffered for around 
10 months had nearly led him to attempt suicide. He felt this could easily have been avoided 
had treatment been authorised immediately. And therefore, he felt compensation of tens of 
thousands should be paid for medical negligence.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I think AXAs offer to pay a total of 
£4000 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to thank Mr M for his detailed submissions to us. Its clear that hes been 
through a very difficult and distressing time and hes provided us with very personal 
information about his health. I do hope that he is now on the road to recovery. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. In this case, AXA accepts that it failed to 
handle Mr Ms claim promptly or fairly and its clear that it turned down his claim 
unreasonably. Not only did it fail to check the relevant underwriting terms with the broker 
when Mr M was added to his employers policy, it compounded its error when it turned down 
the claim. And Mr M first complained about AXAs claims decision in April 2021  which gave 
AXA a chance to notice and rectify its mistake within a few months. However, it failed to do 
so  it simply maintained its position. This meant Mr Ms treatment wasnt authorised for a 
further six months. 
Given AXA acknowledges its mistakes, I now need to consider what it needs to do to put 
things right. Its clear from all Mr M has told us that he suffered very upsetting symptoms and 
he told us that he reached an all-time low. I dont doubt how distressing this situation was 
for Mr M and indeed, for those around him. And I need to think about whether AXAs errors 
caused Mr M any harm or pain and suffering.
Mr Ms psychologist has provided us with evidence in the form of a letter. This letter explains 
that following the decline of the claim, Mr M had sought therapy on the NHS. But due to long 
waiting times, he was unable to access NHS treatment. The letter goes on to explain the 
impact the psychologist considers the delay in authorising treatment likely had on Mr M. Ive 
set out what I think are the key paragraphs of that letter below:
Considering the impact of the delay in accessing therapy on his level of symptoms, it is 
difficult to determine the extent to which the delay may have contributed to ongoing health 
anxiety symptoms given that Mr M was undergoing several health investigations during the 
months when he was unable to access therapy sessions, which may have contributed to a 
re-emergence of health anxiety independently. However, it is possible that earlier 
intervention may have reduced the severity of Mr Ms symptoms that he was experiencing 
when we resumed therapy in November 2021.
Moreover, earlier intervention may have prevented the extent to which Mr Ms negative 
thinking about his health and checking behaviours had become significantly entrenched. 
Given that his symptoms persisted for several months without intervention, it is also possible 
that this may have increased Mr Ms sense of hopelessness about his situation, thereby 
perpetuating low mood and reduced social activities, which in turn meant he focused more 
on his physical health symptoms.
Once therapy sessions began in November 2021, Mr M was able to engage in regular 
therapy sessions, predominantly using Eye Movement Desensitization Reprocessing 
(EMDR). Since that time, his health anxiety symptoms have reduced and he has been more 
able to focus on his interpersonal relationships which he had not been able to do for a large 
part of the last few years during the pandemic due to his health anxiety.
It's clear the psychologist couldnt be exact about the level of harm the delay in accessing 
treatment caused Mr M, as he was already undergoing investigations which may 
independently have caused him to suffer recurring health anxiety. But whats also clear is that earlier therapeutic intervention may have reduced the seriousness of Mr Ms symptoms 
between December 2020 and November 2021. Effectively then, if the claim had been 
authorised earlier, it seems these symptoms couldve been reduced far earlier. I think too 
that the evidence suggests that earlier authorisation of the claim may have prevented the 
extent to which Mr Ms negative thinking had become entrenched, as well as potentially 
reducing his sense of hopelessness. It seems to me then that there is detailed clinical 
evidence which points to AXAs mistake causing Mr M sustained distress and harm over a 
10-month period. 
AXA has now offered to pay Mr M total compensation of £4000. Ive explained above how its 
reached this award  broadly, it considers its initial mistake caused the acceptance of Mr Ms 
claim to be delayed by about 40 weeks. So its offered £100 compensation for each week of 
delay. I appreciate this isnt a perfect solution or calculation. I understand that its very 
difficult to quantify what fair compensation should be, because each person experiences 
things differently and a persons distress and inconvenience is inherently subjective. I dont 
think though it would be fair to measure compensation here by what the cost of Mr Ms 
treatment was to AXA.
In my view, a total award of £4000 compensation is fair and reasonable. This is a significant 
amount of money and it takes account of the prolonged impact of AXAs mistake on Mr M 
during the relevant period. I think it fairly reflects the fact that AXAs errors caused Mr M 
significant distress, upset and worry over a 10-month period. Im also satisfied that its errors 
did adversely affect Mr Ms health. And by his own account, Mr Ms own activities of daily life 
were seriously negatively impacted during this period. Ive also borne in mind our published 
guidance on awards for distress and inconvenience, which can be found on our website. Im 
satisfied that a total award of £4000 is in line with awards made by my colleagues in similar 
circumstances.  
I appreciate Mr M feels hes overpaid for his policy. It might be helpful if I explain that 
moratorium underwriting is cheaper than the type of cover Mr M actually holds. So Mr M 
didnt overpay premiums. I understand AXA has resolved the premium issue directly with Mr 
Ms employer. If Mr M later finds his tax position has been adversely affected as a result, this 
is something he can firstly raise with his employer and then potentially make a new 
complaint to AXA about any financial loss he identifies.
Overall, having considered all of the evidence, I find that AXAs offer of £4000 total 
compensation (less any compensation amounts AXA has already paid) is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that AXA has made a fair offer of 
compensation.
I direct AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to pay Mr M £4000 compensation (less any 
compensation amounts its already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman