DRN-3805208
The complaint
Mr R and Mr S complain about esure Insurance Limiteds level of service and its settlement 
offer following a claim on their motor insurance policy. Mr R is a named driver on Mr Ss 
policy. He wants a higher valuation for their car and compensation. 
What happened
Mr R was involved in an incident and made a claim to esure. He said esure was unhelpful 
and he had to call it frequently. esure said the car was a total loss and it offered Mr S a 
settlement of £880 as the cars market value, with a deduction for the policy excess. esure 
said it had reduced its valuation of the car by 20% as it was a previous total loss. 
Mr R was unhappy with the valuation, the level of service provided, and that hed been 
charged for a courtesy car. esure told the hire provider to reimburse Mr R for any charges. It 
extended the hire until its settlement cheque had cleared. And it paid £50 compensation for 
the service issues. But Mr R remained unhappy.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
esures valuation of the car wasnt reasonable and should be increased to £1,866.50, in 
keeping with our approach. He thought the 20% deduction for the previous total loss was fair 
and reasonable and it was for Mr R to provide evidence that this had been incorrectly made. 
So he thought a fair settlement was £1,493.20, less the policy excess. He thought esure had 
responded promptly to the courtesy car issues and that its compensation for the level of 
service was fair and reasonable. 
esure replied that its valuations were accurate. esure asked for an Ombudsmans review, so 
the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr R and Mr S want a fair settlement for the loss of the car. I can see 
that the policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. The 
Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought esures valuation of the car wasnt reasonable. So Ive checked how 
he came to this conclusion. I can see that he found valuations for Mr Ss car at the date of its 
loss in three of the motor trade guides we use. I can see that he looked for cars of the same 
make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Ss car. One valuation was out of step with 
the others, so, in keeping with our approach, he discounted this. The average of the other 
two valuations was £1,866.50.
esure had said that the car, without the 20% deduction, was valued at £1,100. I can see that 
esure also looked in the trade guides we use, and one valuation it found was the same as 
the lowest found by the Investigator. But the others were significantly lower. One valuation 
doesnt have sufficient detail for me to verify that it was correctly made. And the other two 
couldnt be replicated by the Investigator. 
Car valuation isnt an exact science. And I think it would be unfair for esure to rely on these 
significantly lower valuations when the Investigator has correctly followed our approach and 
found its offer to be out of step with it. So Im satisfied that esures offer was unreasonable 
and that it should increase this to £1,866.50, before any deductions for the previous total 
loss marker and the policy excess of £350. 
esure said it had deducted 20% from the valuation of the car because it had been a previous 
total loss. I agree that this is in keeping with our approach. If Mr R disagrees that this is 
correct, esure has already advised that he should get the insurer that placed the marker on 
the car to remove it from the MIAFTR (Motor Insurance Anti-Fraud & Theft Register). It 
would then refund the deduction.
I think thats fair and reasonable. But we also think that its unfair for a deduction to be made 
where the consumer has unknowingly purchased a car as a previous total loss, having 
carried out reasonable checks in advance of the purchases. So I think that esure should also 
reconsider the deduction if Mr S and Mr R can provide evidence showing how much was 
paid for the car, along with evidence of checks on the vehicles history, such as HPI checks 
etc. Without this evidence, I cant say that the deduction is unfair. And so Im satisfied that a 
reasonable settlement offer would be £1,493.20, less the £350 policy excess.
esure agreed that there had been problems with the provision of a hire car. Mr R told it that 
he hadnt received his settlement cheque on two occasions and esure agreed to extend the 
hire. But the hire provider hadnt done this. 
When the problem was brought to its attention, I can see that esure again agreed to extend 
the hire until after the settlement cheque had cleared. And it told the hire provider to refund 
any charges Mr R had paid. So I think that reasonably restored Mr Rs position. And I think 
its £50 compensation for Mr Rs repeated calls about the hire was fair and reasonable for the 
impact this had. 
Mr R wanted his premium reimbursed. But I dont think that would be fair and reasonable as 
he has made a successful claim and so had use of the policy. 
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to increase its settlement offer for the loss of Mr Ss car to 
£1,493.20, less the £350 policy excess, and pay Mr S the difference between this and its 
previous payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require esure Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman