DRN-4185503
The complaint
Mrs R, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans.
What happened
Mrs R was advanced six home collected loans and Ive included some of the information 
weve received about them in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
instalmentsweekly 
repayment 
per loan
1 £400.00 08/08/2019 28/04/2020 33 £20.00
2 £100.00 28/04/2020 30/07/2020 34 £5.00
3 £400.00 24/11/2020 01/07/2021 34 £20.00
4 £400.00 19/02/2021 16/08/2021 34 £20.00
5 £400.00 16/08/2021 07/04/2022 35 £20.00
6 £400.00 23/11/2021 28/07/2022 35 £20.00
Following Mrs Rs complaint, Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt
going to uphold it. Mrs Rs representative then referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. She thought Morses had made a reasonable
decision to provide loans 1  3 and so she didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint about them. But
the adjudicator concluded when loans 4 - 6 were given to Mrs R that the lending was now
harmful taking account of her loan history. So Morses ought to have realised these loans
werent sustainable for Mrs R and so loans 4 - 6 were upheld.
Mrs Rs representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment, but no further
information or comments were provided.
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached, and I read and
considered everything it said.
The case was then passed to an ombudsman for a decision about the complaint. I then 
issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not, based on 
the evidence to hand uphold Mrs Rs complaint. A copy of the provisional findings follows 
this in smaller text and forms part of this final decision.
Both Mrs R (or her representative) and Morses were asked to provide anything further for 
consideration as soon as possible, but no later than 9 June 2023. 
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the provisional decision.
Mrs Rs representative emailed to say that the decision had been forwarded to her and it 
would then let us know what Mrs R said. However, no further comments have been 
forwarded to us and since the deadline for a response to the provisional decision has now 
passed, I am proceeding to issue the final decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs R could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and
Mrs Rs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs R. These factors include:
Mrs R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs R. The adjudicator thought this
applied in Mrs Rs complaint in relation to loans 4 - 6.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs R could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs R was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Rs complaint.
Neither Morses nor Mrs R (or her representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the
adjudicator reached about loans 1 - 3. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute.
So, I say no more about it. Instead, this decision will focus on whether loans 4 - 6 ought to
have been granted.
Loans 4  6
I thought about the reason why the adjudicator upheld these loans. But I dont think Morses
ought to have realised these loans were unstainable for Mrs R by the time loan 4 was
granted. She had repaid the earlier loans (bar loan one) without any undue difficulty; herborrowing wasnt increasing and there was a gap between loans.
Although the gap between loan 2 and 3 wasnt enough for Morses to have thought that it
started a new lending chain, it is enough to have indicated to Morses that Mrs R wasnt
reliant on these loans. So, I cant agree, that Morses wouldve believed these loans to be
unsustainable for Mrs R.
What I have done is reconsider these loans based on the information Morses had at the time
and having done so, I am intending to not uphold these loans and Ive explained why below.
Mrs R declared a weekly income of £318 for loan 4, £258 for loan 5 and £322 for loan 6.
Morses has also explained these figures were verified with a credit reference agency  but it
hasnt provided the details of the check or the results.
Mrs Rs weekly outgoings were declared as being (rounded) £169 for loan 4, £137 for loan 5
and finally £162 for loan 6  this included any repayments Mrs R already had committed to
Morses. This left, Mrs R with a minimum weekly disposable figure of £120.25 to afford her
weekly repayments of £20.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out before loan 4 was approved, were
likely to be proportionate and these showed Mrs R would be able to afford the repayment.
So based on current evidence, I am therefore intending to not uphold Mrs Rs complaint
about this loan.
However, I dont think the checks Morses carried out before loans 5 and 6 were approved
were proportionate. By loan 5 Mrs R was again, borrowing the same amount over the same
period. She had also returned for further funds on the same day that loan 4 had been repaid.
Indeed, even with the gap in borrowing, Mrs R had already been indebted to Morses for
around 20 months.
On top of this, there are some inconsistencies with what Mrs R was declaring for her
expenses. For example, at loan 6 she declared weekly council tax payments of £17 which
was a significant increase on the £4 she declared for loan 5. This is a significant change and
actually shouldve been a prompt to Morses to have undertaken further checks.
So given the factors Ive mentioned above, I think Morses needed to gain a full
understanding of Mrs Rs actual financial position to ensure these loans were affordable and
sustainable for her. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for evidence of
her outgoings, looking at bank statements and/or collecting any other documentation Morses
felt it needed to obtain in order to have satisfied itself the loan was affordable for Mrs R.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold loans 5 and 6, I have
to be satisfied that had Morses carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it
wouldve likely discovered that Mrs R couldnt afford the loans, or Morses was given some
other evidence which indicated the loans were unsustainable for her for some other reason.
Neither Mrs R (or her representative) have provided a copy of her credit file, bank
statements or any other documentation covering the period leading up loans 5 and 6 being
advanced. Without anything further, I cant be sure what Morses may have seen had it
carried out better checks. So, I cant fairly uphold the complaint about loans 5 or 6 either.
Im therefore intending not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint about loans 4 - 6.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party has provided anything further, I see no reason to depart from the findings 
that were reached in the provisional decision. Morses carried out proportionate checks 
before loan 4 was granted and so this loan is still not upheld. 
But I still dont think Morses carried out proportionate checks before it granted loans 5 and 6. 
However, as Mrs R (or her representative) hasnt provided any documentation about her 
financial situation at the time, I cant conclude that better checks wouldve shown Morses 
that Mrs R couldnt afford loans 5 and 6. 
I am therefore not upholding Mrs Rs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman