DRN-1695692
The complaint
Mr V complains that Investment Funds Direct Limited ("IFDL") failed to apply transferred 
monies to his account in a timely manner. 
What happened
Following advice from a firm I will call S Mr V decided to transfer the values of three pension 
funds he held to a single self-invested personal pension (SIPP) that he had opened with 
IFDL. Those transfers were received separately by IFDL between 18 and 30 January 2019 
but the time taken to apply the funds to Mr V's account varied between one day and eleven 
days. Mr V says that due to increases in the prices of the investments he purchased the 
delays have resulted in him being able to purchase fewer fund units than he would have 
been able to if the transfers had been allocated more promptly.
I think it would be helpful to be clear here that this complaint doesn't concern the advice that 
Mr V was given by S in relation to transferring his pension savings. Nor does it concern the 
ultimate investment decisions that were taken with those savings once they had been 
transferred to IFDL. IFDL provides an execution only service, so the investment decisions, 
and transaction instructions, were provided on Mr V's behalf by S. IFDL was only able to 
implement those investments once it had received instructions from S.
So this complaint needs to consider a relatively small, but important, part of the transfer 
process. Namely, the time it took for IFDL to allocate the transferred funds from its own 
accounts, where they were sent by Mr V's original pension providers, to Mr V's SIPP. Until 
that process had been completed Mr V, or S on his behalf, couldn't complete the investment 
of the pension funds.
IFDL has said that it considers it has complied with its regulatory responsibilities in terms of 
the time it took to allocate each of the three transferred amounts. So it doesn't think it has 
done anything wrong. Mr V says that the significant differences between the time taken to 
allocate the different transfers might suggest that IFDL had failed to process some of the 
receipts in a timely manner - he doesn't think that IFDL has complied with its regulatory 
responsibility of "treating customers fairly".
Mr V's complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She concluded that IFDL 
had provided Mr V with a fair and reasonable level of service that also met its regulatory 
obligations. So she didn't think that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr V didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time.IFDL has said that it has been guided in looking at the service it provided to Mr V by the 
CASS rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority - its regulator. These rules provide 
guidance for businesses on how they should handle client assets. In particular IFDL says 
that the relevant section of CASS is section 7.13.36. That says;
A firm must allocate any client money it receives to an individual client promptly and, in 
any case, no later than ten business days following the receipt (or where subsequent 
to the receipt of money it has identified that the money, or part of it, is client 
money under CASS 7.13.37 R, no later than ten business days following that 
identification).
As I said earlier, the funds that were sent to IFDL came from three separate pension 
schemes and were received at different times. Looking at the information that IFDL has 
given to us, that matches the dates that Mr V has provided, it appears that each of the 
transfers were applied to Mr V's SIPP within ten business days - the longest time was a 
delay of seven business days. So it seems to me that IFDL has met its responsibilities under 
maximum period allowed by the CASS rules.
But those same rules also require any funds to be applied "promptly". And there is also the 
overarching principle that firms should treat their customers fairly. And it is these aspects 
that appear to have given Mr V the greatest cause for concern. He has asked why one of the 
payments could be applied the following business day, whereas the others took far longer.
In considering this matter I must first of all say that I haven't seen anything that would make 
me think IFDL deliberately delayed the application of the funds to Mr V's SIPP. But I don't 
think it is unreasonable for Mr V to highlight the differences in the time it took each of the 
payments to be applied to his account. But I can't agree that those differences mean that 
IFDL has treated Mr V unfairly. 
IFDL hasn't provided us with a definitive answer why each of the payments took different 
lengths of time to be applied to Mr V's account. It has noted that it processes instructions in 
the order that they were received, and so should it be busier processing times might be 
longer. And I have noted that the three payments came from different sources - it might be 
that the narrative supporting those payments was different and so the payments required 
different levels of manual intervention to be applied to Mr V's SIPP.
But I think the overarching conclusion I would reach here is that even if IFDL had faced 
some processing difficulties, whether through the volumes of other transactions being 
higher, the payments needing different levels of manual intervention, or any number of other 
reasons, I haven't seen anything to make me think the time that was taken was 
unreasonable. The fact that it processed some payments quicker than others doesn't mean it 
hasn't treated Mr V fairly. IFDL needs to process each payment appropriately and I don't 
think it is unreasonable to conclude that might result in different payments, received at 
different times, being processed at different speeds.
I appreciate that Mr V might have been able to purchase more investment units if the funds 
had been applied earlier. And I can understand the frustration this has caused to him. But I 
can't fairly conclude that the time it took IFDL to apply the transactions wasn't fair, or was 
outside its regulatory obligations. It follows that I don't uphold the complaint. 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Investment Funds Direct Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman