DRN-3127214
The complaint
Ms B complains about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled 
a claim she made for damage caused by subsidence under her home insurance policy.
What happened
In 2014, Ms B made a claim as she noticed water coming into her property, she thought the 
damage could have been caused by a storm, but it was later discovered that the damage 
had been caused as a result of subsidence.
The cause of the subsidence was found to be a council owned tree, so action was taken to 
have it removed. The claim was ongoing for a number of years. In 2018 Ms B complained. 
She was unhappy that the latest surveyor [G] made amendments to the previous scope of 
works. At this point Ms B said LV refused to cover her en-suite, which had previously been 
approved. She also said the repairs carried out in the garage were poor. She wanted LV to 
plaster the internal walls of the garage to make up for this. Ms B also said there was a hole 
in the flashing of her kitchen ceiling that LV needed to fix, and that one of the external cracks 
on the garage hadnt been filled with resin as had happened with other cracks. 
In response, LV said it had undertaken some exploratory work in the en-suite to check 
whether the damage had been caused by the subsidence. This included the removal of a 
shower tray. It was at this point LV said it didnt think the damage had been caused by 
subsidence, so wasnt covered as part of the claim. But given it had caused disruption to the 
en-suite, it later offered Ms B 50% towards the cost of having the en-suite reinstated. 
LV didnt agree to undertake any further works on the garage, its view was that plastering 
the walls would leave the garage in a better state than it was before the subsidence damage, 
and so wasnt covered under the policy. 
LV did later agree to pay some other additional items Ms B had said were outstanding. It 
also accepted there was poor communication from the surveyor, so it offered a total of 
£1,000 compensation to apologise for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with LVs response, Ms B brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought LVs offer for the en-suite was fair. He also didnt think LV needed 
to carry out the plastering of the garage walls or any external repairs. For the roof flashing on 
the kitchen, he said there was no evidence this was linked to the subsidence, and it would 
be for Ms B to demonstrate the loss is covered by the policy. He thought LVs offer of £1,000 
compensation was fair, and he thought a disturbance allowance of £260 for the period where 
Ms B was without washing facilities was fair. 
LV accepted the investigators findings, but Ms B didnt. She referred to earlier surveyors 
comments about the damage to the en-suite and said there are three further areas reaming: 
The flashing on the kitchen roof needs repairing;
The outside of the garage needs a resin fill;
The internal appearance of the garage.
She also provided more information on the impact that LVs delays had on her. 
Our investigator reviewed the matter again and felt LV should pay a further £150 to 
recognise the unnecessary distress caused to Ms B, when considering the impact to her 
mental health that shed suffered. LV accepted this further award bringing the compensation 
to £1,150. Ms B initially accepted this, but then asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Shed thought she was receiving £1,150 compensation on top of the £1,000 
already awarded by LV. So the matter has come to me to decide.
Ive already told LV that I intend to reach a slightly different outcome to that of our 
investigator in relation to two of the points. Ive said I cant see that LV ever considered her 
points about the hole in the flashing and the external crack to the garage. I said on balance I 
was satisfied they were part of the claim and I couldnt see any evidence on file that it had 
completed these works. So I asked it to pay a further £290 to Ms B as a cash settlement for 
these works. This figure was based on costs set out on the schedule of works for similar 
repairs. LV accepted to pay this amount.
Ms B accepted the amount of £290 in principle but instead wanted LV to come to her 
property to make good these repairs, as well as those to the internal garage. 
She also raised various points about the claim and that LV had never issued a certificate for 
the works or a letter confirming the council were at fault for the subsidence. She also raised 
points about LV taking the local council to court, and her unhappiness with the way LV had 
handled this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that this claim has been ongoing for many years for Ms B, but this decision will 
only focus on the areas that are still in dispute from her correspondence. Ms B has provided 
a lot of information in relation to the complaint, I thank her for taking the time to do so.But as 
an informal service, I wont comment on everything thats been said, just the key reasons for 
my decision. But I want to reassure her that I have read and considered everything on file.
The en-suite
Ms B says the en-suite was to be repaired as part of the claim until LV changed surveyor in 
2018. She says previous surveyors had included it in their schedule of works, and the 
damage got worse due to the subsidence, so it was unfair for LV to later change its position. 
I dont have a record of any discussions Ms B had with previous surveyors, so I accept its 
possible previous surveyors did tell her the en-suite would be included. But the earliest 
scope of works I have been provided doesnt support this.
The earliest scope of works Ive seen is from 2016, two years before Ms B says LV changed 
its position. The 2016 schedule does include the en-suite and costs but says Below is 
provisional Following assessment of en-suite floor and if related to Subsidence. So it 
doesnt seem to me that a decision had been made by LV that the en-suite would definitely 
be included in the claim, and further investigation was needed.
I cant see any investigation was carried out until 2018. At this point LV removed some of the 
bathroom items to review the slope in the floor and any damage, and it was at this point it 
said thered been no damage caused by the subsidence. Whilst it noted there was a slope in 
the floor, it found the tiles were still fixed to the shower tray. It said if there had been 
subsidence, youd expect to see a gap between the tray and the tiles, where the drop had 
occurred, but as there wasnt one, the damage was unlikely to have been caused by 
subsidence.
I know Ms B has disputed this heavily, shes said she carried out patch repairs to parts of the 
bathroom, including the silicone over the years to maintain it as best she could, but the 
damage had got worse due to the subsidence. Having taken everything into account, on balance Im more persuaded by what Ive seen from LV, so dont think it needed to include 
the en-suite in the schedule of works.
LV did remove some items of the en-suite in order to carry out its investigation, and it cash 
settled half of the overall cost of the repairs needed to the en-suite as a contribution. I think 
this is fair and reasonable, so LV doesnt need to increase this amount.
Ms B says due to LV removing parts of the en-suite, including the shower tray, she was 
without washing facilities for two weeks, whilst works to her main bathroom [which shed 
organised herself following a case settlement] were going ahead. She said she couldnt 
cancel her contractors for the main bathroom because it was the only appointment she could 
get. But she asked LV to pay compensation for leaving her without sufficient washing 
facilities. She asked for £40 a night, which was the cost of a hotel. 
I accept Ms B was without washing facilities, its unclear why LV didnt reinstate the shower 
tray to make the en-suite usable for Ms B. It seems there was a communication breakdown 
between Ms B, LV and the contractors. LV accepts it caused inconvenience and has agreed 
£260 in disturbance allowance for the period Ms B was without proper facilities. 
Having considered everything, Im not going to ask LV to increase this. I accept Ms B was 
left in a less than ideal position, but Ive also considered that she didnt pay for a hotel, she 
instead used her friends property and local leisure facilities to wash. I also find that given 
she had contractors in her property to carry out work on her bathroom, she could have asked 
them to reinstate the en-suite to a usable state, whilst waiting to hear from LV. Ive also 
considered that Ms B has had a total of £1,150 compensation for the unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience caused by LV during the claim [which Ill consider in more detail later]. 
But taking that into account, Im not going to ask LV to increase its offer on the disturbance 
allowance.
Ms Bs garage was badly affected by the subsidence. And Ms B has said the repairs carried 
out have been to a poor standard; metal strapping has been left exposed on walls and the 
brickwork hasnt been done to a good standard. She wants LV to do something to cover up 
the work that has been done. LV has refused on the basis that any plastering of the garage 
would be considered betterment, given she didnt have it plastered before the subsidence 
damage.
LV has a responsibility to carry out a lasting and effective repair. Im satisfied LV has done 
this, and so doesnt need to carry out any more work on the garage. I accept the garage 
didnt have metal straps visible before, these were put in as part of the repair to help connect 
the walls. But this doesnt mean LV needs to plaster the garage to cover them up. And Im 
satisfied doing so would leave the garage in a better position than it was before the 
subsidence damage.  The schedule of work shows some sections of brick had to be cut out 
and new brickwork included. Having reviewed the photos sent by Ms B, I agree the pointing 
on the brickwork could be neater. But ultimately, I havent seen anything to suggest the 
repair isnt lasting and effective, and therefore I dont consider it reasonable or proportionate 
to ask LV to attend Ms Bs property to correct a minor imperfection. 
Works to outside of the garage and the flashing on the kitchen roof
LV has now agreed to a payment of £290 to rectify these issues, so I havent considered 
these repairs any further. Ms B has also agreed to the outcome, but has asked that rather 
than a cash settlement, LV attends her property to carry out these works. 
Having considered everything, Im not going to ask LV to attend in person to carry out these 
works. These are relatively minor repairs that need to take place. And given LV havent been 
to Ms Bs property in a number of years, and the relationship between the parties has broken 
down, I think a fair and reasonable solution is for LV to cash settle for £290, allowing Ms B to 
carry out the works herself. 
The handling of the claimIts clear that LV could have handled this claim better, its communication with Ms B was at 
times poor, and she was left without a functioning bathroom for an extended period of time, 
when LV should have carried out a temporary repair to prevent this. I also recognise that Ms 
B has some health conditions, which shes shared with us, which mean the impact to her of 
LVs mistakes has been greater. But Im satisfied that a total of £1,150 compensation is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances as an apology from LV. So LV will need to pay this 
amount to Ms B, less any amount its already paid.
Ms B has said she isnt happy that LV asked her to sign certain documents before pursuing 
a legal claim against her local authority. And shes said shes never been provided with a 
certificate for the works carried out, which she may need if she decides to sell her property. I 
havent considered LVs conduct relating to the legal claim, as far as I can see this wasnt 
part of the complaint Ms B brought to LV. And in any event, LV has already agreed to 
compensate Ms B for poor communication, which seems is the main issue here. So I 
wouldnt ask it to do anything differently.
When the main work to the property was concluded, LV should have issued Ms B with a 
certificate of structural adequacy, so if it hasnt done so, it will need to do this. But I think its 
worth making clear to Ms B that this isnt a guarantee of the work carried out by the 
contractors. This is a document that would enable Ms B to sell her property or to provide to a 
new insurer to show the repair has been carried out.
My final decision
My final decision is that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited needs to pay Ms B
a further £290 to settle the outstanding repairs to the kitchen roof and exterior of the 
garage.
a total of £1,150 compensation, in addition to the £260 for the disturbance allowance, 
less any amount it has already paid.
It also needs to issue Ms B with a certificate of structural adequacy for the repairs carried 
out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman