DRN-4225033
The complaint
Mr O has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) registered a marker 
against him at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In late 2022, Mr O received £1,350 for the sale of his cryptocurrency.
HSBC received a report that the funds Mr O received were fraudulent. It spoke to Mr O, who 
initially offered conflicting testimony about why hed been paid. He later offered proof of the 
sale, but HSBC had already decided to close his account and register a CIFAS marker 
against him. It also took £1,252.95 of Mr Os money and transferred it to the original sender.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. HSBC didnt 
agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether this report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, HSBC 
needed to have more than just a suspicion or concern. It needs to be able to show that it had 
reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or a financial crime had been committed or 
attempted, backed up by evidence which would support it being reported to the authorities.
Mr O has provided proof of the sale of his cryptocurrency, his message log with the buyer 
from the crypto platform, and evidence of historical crypto trading. I can see that he sold 
£1,350 of crypto to a buyer with the same name as the person who paid him, and that he 
sent the cryptocurrency that was bought. So Mr O was entitled to the funds. I have not found 
any evidence which actually substantiates he knowingly aided in fraud. So I find that this 
marker was erroneous. I am glad that HSBC has now agreed to remove it.
It seems that both parties share some responsibility for this erroneous marker. Mr O initially 
gave odd and conflicting reasons for why hed received the money. I appreciate he was 
worried the bank would disapprove of crypto trading, and from the recording of his calls it 
seems he didnt completely understand what he was being asked or why. But his unreliable 
testimony was a major factor in this marker being added. I hope that in future, Mr O will be 
more upfront if questioned by his bank about why hes received money. On the other hand, 
Mr O did offer HSBC proof of the crypto sale, and had HSBC taken him up on this  as it 
should have  then I think the matter could have been resolved much earlier.
Indeed, I can see that HSBC is still confused about this payment, as it keeps referring back 
to Mr Os original testimony about a friend being involved. To clarify: this was not money 
from a friend, it was a payment for a cryptocurrency sale. The evidence is clear that this sale 
went through and Mr O provided the crypto. I am satisfied that Mr O was entitled to the 
money he received.
So while HSBC may not have acted unreasonably in adding the marker at first, its right that 
the marker is now removed. I also dont think HSBC acted unreasonably in closing the 
account given its understandable concerns about the accounts activity  ultimately, it was 
entitled to close it and it did so under the terms of the account.
Where HSBC was not justified was in taking Mr Os money. As above, Mr O was entitled to 
this money, as he got it from a genuine sale where he provided what was bought. And he 
had no reasonable basis to think the money came from fraud  the name of the seller on the 
crypto platform matched the name of the person who paid him. Mr O made a sale in good 
faith, and HSBC was not justified in leaving him deprived of both his goods and the money 
paid for his goods. It may well be that the buyers money came from fraud  or it may be that 
they submitted a false fraud claim  but either way, it would be unfair and unreasonable to 
hold Mr O liable for the scammers actions and to leave him out of pocket when Mr O didnt 
defraud anyone.
While, generally speaking, banks should try to return money that was sent because of fraud, 
they must first investigate fully and find out whether the recipient was acting fraudulently 
themselves or not  which Mr O was not. Mr O offered evidence hed received the money in 
good faith for a genuine sale, but HSBC didnt take him up on that. And while HSBC may 
have had an indemnity from the sending bank, thats just a promise between two banks  it 
does not allow HSBC to take customers money if it otherwise shouldnt.
I find that HSBC did not have an entitlement to take £1,252.95 of Mr Os own money, and 
that it did so without Mr Os consent  meaning this was unauthorised. So HSBC is liable for 
reimbursing Mr O for this unauthorised transaction. It will also need to add simple interest, to 
compensate Mr O for the time he was without his money.
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
remove the fraud marker in dispute, if it has not done so already;
reimburse the £1,252.95 it took; and-
pay simple interest to Mr O on that £1,252.95, at the rate of 8% simple a year, 
payable from the date it was debited until the date its returned. This is to 
compensate Mr O for the time he didnt have his money.
 If HSBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct tax from 
that simple interest, it should tell Mr O how much tax its taken off. It should also give Mr O a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one. Mr O may be able to reclaim the tax from HMRC 
if he doesnt normally pay tax.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Os complaint, and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
put things right by doing what Ive said above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman