DRN-3583145
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by Cambrian Associates Limited to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss. 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 
December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr W has told us that he chose to opt-into the BSPS2 prior to the deadline.
Nevertheless, concerned about what this all meant for the security of his pension, Mr W 
sought advice. Mr W met with Cambrian Associates in January 2018 having been referred to 
them by a colleague. On 12 January 2018 Cambrian Associates completed a fact-find to 
gather information about Mr Ws circumstances and objectives. Amongst other things this 
recorded that Mr W was 34; he was separated; he had two dependent children; he owned 
his own home (unencumbered); he had no cash assets and no liabilities; and he wanted to 
retire at early at 57 on an income of £20,000 a year. Cambrian Associates also carried out 
an assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk, which it deemed to be balanced.
On 17 January 2018 Cambrian Associates advised Mr W to transfer his BSPS benefits into a 
personal pension arrangement and invest the proceeds in an investment fund, which 
Cambrian Associates deemed matched Mr Ws attitude to risk.
In summary, the suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
Neither the BSPS nor the PPF would provide Mr W with the income he needed to 
retire at 57.
To provide flexibility to adjust the income Mr W could take from his pension.
To provide tax-efficiency
To enable Mr W to pass on any remaining pension fund upon his death to his 
daughters.
To alleviate Mr Ws concerns about the financial stability of his employer and to 
provide him with control of his pension.
Mr W duly accepted the recommendation and sometime later, just under £238,000 was 
transferred to his new personal pension.
In 2021 Mr W complained to Cambrian Associates about the suitability of the transfer advice. 
He said he felt hed received bad advice to transfer.
Because Mr W hadnt received a response from Cambrian Associates about his complaint 
within the required timeframe, he asked us to consider his complaint.
An investigator upheld the complaint and required Cambrian Associates to pay 
compensation. In summary they said that, given the critical yield required to match Mr Ws 
scheme benefits, the opportunity to improve on them by transferring and investing in line 
with a balanced attitude to risk was limited. They said Mr W didnt have the capacity for loss 
given this pension accounted for his main income provision in retirement at the time. They 
said because Mr Ws retirement was more than 20 years away, they didnt think Mr W 
wouldve known what his requirement were including his income need. They said Mr W 
didnt need control of his pension and death benefits shouldnt have been prioritised over 
providing an income. They said Mr W was contributing to his workplace Defined Contribution 
(DC) scheme which he couldve used to retire early allowing him to defer taking his DB 
scheme benefits. They said if suitable advice had been given, Mr W ought to have been 
advised to opt into the BSPS2 which they said Mr W wouldve likely accepted.
Cambrian Associates disagreed. It said the investigator had not addressed, or not addressed 
in enough detail some key points. In summary it said:
Mr Ws objective centred around an intention to retire at age 57.
Mr W could not achieve his objective through the BSPS, PPF or BSPS2  there was 
a shortfall in the income he would receive, so the transfer was suitable and was the 
best possible outcome.
By transferring its likely at least some of the pension fund will be available for Mr Ws 
daughters should he pre-decease them. Through the existing scheme, the BSPS2 or 
the PPF once the benefits had been in payment for five years, they wouldve ceased 
on his death.
If Mr W had entered the PPF, this wouldve prevented him from transferring in the 
future.
It disagrees with the investigators finding about Mr Ws capacity for loss because it 
ignores his DC pension, which would likely amount to a considerable sum he could 
use to provide an income in retirement.
The investigator incorrectly believed Mr Ws desire for control of his pension benefits 
was about him wanting to carry out self-investment  but this was about him taking 
ownership of his benefits and not having his pension under the control of the BSPS, 
BSPS2 or the PPF. 
It disagrees Mr Ws DB pension formed the majority of his income in retirement 
because Mr W had his DC pension and other means, including his state pension to help provide him with an income.
It disagrees a critical yield in excess of 8.29% a year would need to be achieved to 
make the transfer worthwhile  this takes account of a spouses pension which was 
not a requirement of Mr W at the time and his other objectives of control and to be 
able to retire early were met by the transfer.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Cambrian Associates 
actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Cambrian 
Associates should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Ws best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability Cambrian Associates carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the 
regulator) showing how much Mr Ws pension fund would need to grow by each year in 
order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). 
Despite Cambrian Associates providing evidence in its business file, which appears to show 
that it calculated the income Mr W would receive through the new BSPS2 at his target 
retirement age, I can see the TVAS was based on Mr Ws existing BSPS scheme benefits. 
But at the time of the advice, Mr W didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS. So basing 
the analysis on the existing BSPS benefits was somewhat redundant and in my view wasnt 
helpful to Mr W. 
The advice paperwork referred to the Time to Choose period and said: Members of the 
BSPS are now able to choose whether they want to keep their pension in BSPS, and receive 
benefits under the PPF compensation limits, or transfer their pension to a new employer 
sponsored scheme with the same benefits as the BSPS but with reduced annual increases, 
this is known as BSPS2. But the deadline for members to choose of 22 December 2017 had 
passed at the time of the advice. Nevertheless, because Mr W has told us that he opted into 
the BSPS2 prior to the deadline, analysis of the benefits available to Mr W through the new 
scheme was relevant. So I think the benefits available to Mr W through the BSPS2 shouldve 
been factored in with Cambrian Associates analysis and advice so that he was able to make 
an informed decision.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr W was 34 at the time of the advice and it was recorded in the advice paperwork that he 
wanted to retire at 57. The TVAS dated 15 January 2018 set out the relevant critical yields: 
at age 57 it was 8.29% per year assuming Mr W took a full pension and 7.06% per year if he 
took a cash lump sum and a reduced pension. The critical yields required to match the 
benefits provided by the PPF at age 57 were 5.72% and 5.5% respectively. Cambrian 
Associates also produced critical yields based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65 
 based on a full pension it was 6.41% and on a reduced pension basis it was 5.45% and 
through the PPF 4.84% and 4.64% respectively.
But as Ive said above, Mr W remaining in the BSPS wasnt an option. So, the critical yields 
applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve been provided. The lower annual increases 
under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat. But I still think they 
wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.5% per year for 22 years to retirement (age 57)  it was 4.7% per year for 30 years to 
retirement (age 65.) Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained 
unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ws 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view, there would be little 
point in Mr W giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
But here, the lowest critical yield based on a retirement age of 57 was 5.5%, which was 
based on Mr W taking a reduced pension through the PPF. The critical yield if Mr W took the 
same benefits through his existing scheme at age 57 was 7.06%. So, based on taking the 
same benefits through the BSPS2 at age 57, I think the critical yield wouldve been 
somewhere between those figures, and likely closer to 7.06%. So given this rate was 
significantly higher than the discount rate of 4.5% and 2% greater than the regulators middle 
projection rate, I think Mr W was most likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than 
those provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, as a result of investing 
in line with a balanced attitude to risk. I dont think the position was any different if the 
scheme moved to the PPF. In my view, to have come close to achieving the returns required 
wouldve required Mr W to take on a greater level of risk than hed indicated he was 
prepared to take.
While the advice wasnt predicated on Mr W retiring at the schemes normal retirement age 
of 65, for completeness Id add that given the critical yields quoted in the report, at best, I 
think the opportunity to improve on the benefits available to Mr W though the DB scheme 
were limited as a result of transferring and investing in line with his stated attitude to risk.
I can see Cambrian Associates has pointed to the fact that the critical yield takes account of 
a spouses pension, which was not a requirement of Mr W at the time. I accept 
Mr W was separated at the time and the spouses benefit provided by the scheme might not 
have seemed important at the time. But not only was Mr W young at the time of the advice 
and there was a good chance, in my view, that he might want to marry again at some point 
in the future, regardless I still consider the critical yield gives a good indication of the value of 
benefits Mr W was considering giving up and so a key indicator of the viability of the transfer.
The TVAS report also showed that, assuming Mr W took an income of equal value to the 
estimated benefits provided by the existing scheme, increasing by RPl per annum from a 
drawdown arrangement, at the medium rate of return the fund would run out by the time 
Mr W was 73 assuming he took a full pension or 74 with a reduced pension. This is 
significantly shorter than Mr Ws life expectancy at the time, which in my view is further 
evidence that the transfer was not financially viable and Mr W was likely to end up with lower 
overall retirement benefits as a result of transferring out of the scheme.
I can see that Cambrian Associates produced a cashflow analysis report, which showed that 
Mr W could take his target income a year of £20,000 and still have a significant fund value to 
pass on to his family in the event of his death. But this was based on Mr W transferring the 
estimated total value of his workplace DC scheme at age 57 to his personal pension, so the 
analysis is not based solely on the transfer value of Mr Ws BSPS benefits. In any event, as I 
will set out below, I dont think Mr W needed to risk his BSPS benefits to achieve things and I 
dont think higher death benefits shouldve been prioritised over Mr Ws security of income in 
retirement.So based on financial viability alone and given I think Mr W was likely to receive lower 
overall retirement benefits at his intended retirement age by transferring to a personal 
pension arrangement, I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in his best interests. 
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
Cambrian Associates said at the time  it acknowledged that it didnt think the critical yields 
were achievable, but thought Mr Ws overall objectives meant the transfer was nevertheless 
suitable. So Ive considered these other considerations and whether a transfer was suitable 
and in Mr Ws best interests, despite providing overall lower benefits. 
Flexibility and income needs
One of the key reasons Cambrian Associates recommended the transfer was to meet 
Mr Ws objective for flexibility  to enable him to adjust his income in retirement, which it said 
wasnt possible through the DB scheme because the income payments are rigid and cannot 
be altered in any way.
But Im not persuaded that Mr W knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in 
retirement. And in any event, I dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits at 
this stage to achieve flexibility, if thats what he ultimately required.
Mr W was 34 at the time of the advice. And while its possible he had given his future 
retirement some thought, given it was more than 20 years away and he still had the majority 
of his working life in front of him, I dont think he had anything that could reasonably be 
described as a set retirement plan. Mr Ws desire to want to retire early at 57, was in my 
view likely based on the earliest age he would be entitled to access his benefits rather than 
being a firm objective.
I accept Mr W liked the idea of retiring early, but he already had this option available to him  
he didnt have to transfer out to achieve this. I also accept Mr W couldnt take his DB 
scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could choose to take a cash lump sum and a reduced 
annual pension, Mr W had to take those benefits at the same time. But nothing here 
indicates that Mr W had a likely future need to take a cash lump sum and defer taking his 
income. I also havent seen anything to indicate that Mr W had a strong need to vary his 
income throughout retirement. So it strikes me that flexibility and the ability for Mr W to vary 
his income was simply a feature or a consequence of transferring to a personal pension 
arrangement rather than a genuine objective of Mr Ws at the time.
Despite this, importantly Mr W was contributing to his workplace DC pension scheme. And 
the nature of a DC scheme means this already provided Mr W with flexibility  he wasnt 
committed to take these benefits in a set way. Cambrian Associates recorded that a total of 
16% of Mr Ws salary was being invested here  a combination of employer and employee 
contributions. So by age 57, based on current contributions alone and without accounting for 
growth, salary increases or increases in contribution rate, this could be worth around 
£138,000. And according to Cambrian Associates own analysis, it thought it could be worth 
around £377,000 based on an assumed growth rate. Whether it would achieve this level of 
growth or not, I think Mr W couldve taken lump sums as and when required and adjusted 
the income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr W retained his DB 
pension, this combined with his new workplace pension, wouldve likely given him the 
flexibility to retire early - if thats what he ultimately decided.
So in any event, Mr W didnt need to transfer his DB scheme benefits at this stage to a 
personal pension arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. And he didnt have 
to sacrifice this by opting into the BSPS2. But if Mr W did in fact have a greater need for 
flexibility beyond that which he already had, I think this couldve been explored closer to his 
intended retirement age.Cambrian Associates ought reasonably to have known that Mr W had chosen to opt into the 
BSPS2, so he wouldve retained the ability to transfer out nearer to retirement, if his needs 
later demanded it. I think Cambrian Associates couldve explained this more clearly to Mr W. 
Turning to Mr Ws income need  while I dont think Mr W could in any way know for certain 
what his income need more than 20 years in the future would be (in that time his 
circumstances could likely change) it was recorded that he wanted £20,000 gross a year 
from age 57. And despite what Cambrian Associates said in its suitability report that: Early 
retirement under the BSPS would not provide you with the level of income you require at 
your age 57 (only providing a reduced income of £13,340 per annum) - therefore, under the 
BSPS it would not be feasible for you to retire early. I think Mr W could likely meet his 
overall income need using the income from either the BSPS2 or the PPF (if the new scheme 
didnt go ahead) supplemented by his other provision.
For example, Cambrian Associates analysis showed that at 57, under the existing scheme, 
Mr W would be entitled to an annual pension of just under £15,000. Because of the reduced 
revaluation factors, under the BSPS2 this figure would be lower. And as I said earlier on, 
Cambrian Associates also carried out a separate calculation of the estimated income Mr W 
would receive through the BSPS2, which showed it was around £13,300. This was the figure 
it referred to in the suitability report. Assuming its calculation was accurate, although this 
alone wouldnt meet Mr Ws income need, he wouldve likely had a not insignificant amount 
in his workplace DC pension as I referred to above, which he could draw on flexibly, as and 
when needed, to top up his income or take a lump sum. Im mindful too that Mr W had a 
significant monthly disposable income, which wouldve given him a high capacity to save his 
excess income in the years to his retirement to give him further scope to supplement his 
income / improve his standard of living  at least until his state pension being payable later 
on. 
So it seems likely that if Mr W did decide to retire at 57 (by no means certain) he couldve 
met his income need by remaining in the DB scheme and using his other means to 
supplement things. I dont think he needed to risk his guaranteed benefits at this stage to 
achieve things. 
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Mr W wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. And 
while the income Mr W would receive was likely lower than the pension hed be entitled to 
under the BSPS2, I dont think it was substantially lower such that it wouldve made a 
difference to the recommendation - according to Cambrian Associates the difference was 
negligible. As Ive said above, while Mr Ws retirement plans and needs werent fully 
formulated and he wouldve had his DC scheme and savings to draw on flexibly until his 
state pension became payable.
So overall, I think Mr W couldve likely met his income needs in retirement through the 
BSPS2 or the PPF. And I dont think it was in Mr Ws best interests for him to transfer his 
pension just to have flexibility that Im not persuaded he really needed.
Death benefits
Cambrian Associates also recommended the transfer because it would provide lump sum 
death benefits and enable Mr Ws daughters to benefit from his pension fund.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr W. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr W might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr W about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not as a legacy planning tool. 
I accept that Mr W was separated at the time, so the existing death benefits attached the DB 
scheme and specifically the spouses pension might not have seemed of value to him. But 
Mr W was only 34, so its entirely possible that he would re-marry again in the future, so the 
spouses benefit would in my view become a valuable benefit. This was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was. In any event, Cambrian Associates should not have 
encouraged Mr W to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Im mindful too that Mr W already had lump sum death benefits available to him through his 
workplace DC scheme  he also had death-in-service benefit, which wouldve paid out in the 
event of Mr Ws death before retirement. And Mr W couldve nominated his children as 
beneficiaries of these if he hadnt already done so. Mr W also owned his own property 
outright, so his daughters stood to inherit a not inconsiderable sum here too.
But if Mr W genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his children, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Cambrian 
Associates shouldve instead explored and ultimately recommended additional life 
insurance, which could be written in trust for their benefit. I appreciate that the suitability 
report mentioned a whole of life policy, for a sum assured equivalent to the Mr Ws pension 
transfer value, which was quoted at £142.17 a month. The adviser recorded that this was 
discounted because Mr W didnt want to go through an underwriting process or commit to 
paying a high monthly premium for the rest of his life for his daughters to benefit from a lump 
sum.
While Mr Ws stated response might suggest this was not a genuine priority of his given his, I 
dont think that this was a balanced way of presenting this option to Mr W. Cambrian 
Associates based the quotes on a sum assured for the full transfer value. But basing the 
quote on the transfer value of Mr Ws pension benefits essentially assumed that he would 
pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, Mr W wanted 
to leave whatever remained of his pension to his family, which would be a lot less than this if 
he lived a long life, he took more from his pension than expected and/or if investment returns 
were poor. So, the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr W how much he would ideally 
like to leave to his family, taking into account his existing benefits. And this couldve been 
explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be a lot cheaper to 
provide given Mr Ws age and affordable, notwithstanding that I think £142 a month was 
already affordable given Mr Ws recorded monthly disposable income of more than £1,700. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension arrangement justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. And I dont 
think that insurance was properly explored as a suitable alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the BSPS
Cambrian Associates also recommended the transfer because Mr W wanted to break all ties 
with his employer and because of his concerns about the financial stability of the scheme 
and his employer, he wanted to take control of his pension.
I understand that Mr W, like many of his colleagues no doubt, was concerned about his 
pension. So its quite possible that Mr W was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
these concerns. But it was Cambrian Associates obligation to give Mr W an objective picture 
and recommend what was in his best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and Mr W had elected to opt 
into it. So, to a greater extent Mr W had already taken action which ought to have alleviated 
some of his concerns about the scheme overall moving to the PPF. But I think Cambrian 
Associates couldve alleviated any concerns that remained by properly taking into account 
the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 in its analysis and advice.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Cambrian 
Associates shouldve reassured Mr W that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as 
concerning as he thought or might have been led to believe. Importantly Mr W still retained 
the ability to retire early. Mr W didnt have any firm retirement plans at this stage - but I think 
the income available to Mr W through the PPF wouldve still provided a solid base, which his 
other means, including his DC scheme could supplement to meet his overall income need at 
retirement. Crucially I dont think he was likely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. 
And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still 
guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. Mr W might not have been able to 
later transfer out of the PPF  but given what I said earlier on about him already having 
flexibility to vary his income and take lump sums, I dont think there was an apparent need 
for him to do so.
So I dont think that Mr Ws concerns about the BSPS and his employer was a compelling 
reason to recommend a transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I accept that Mr W was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about the scheme and his employer were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control 
and potential for higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension would 
have sounded like attractive features to Mr W. But Cambrian Associates wasnt there to just 
transact what Mr W might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr W needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr W was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr W did not have any firm retirement plans, so he 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme just to have flexibility that Im not 
persuaded he really needed, and the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving 
up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ws best 
interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension at this time.
So, I think Cambrian Associates shouldve advised Mr W that his decision to opt into the 
BSPS2 was a suitable one and in his best interests.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr W would've gone ahead anyway, against 
Cambrian Associates advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr W wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against Cambrian Associates advice. I say this because, while as Ive already said Mr W was likely motivated to transfer when he 
approached Cambrian Associates, on balance, I still think Mr W wouldve listened to and 
followed its advice if things had happened as they should have and Cambrian Associates 
had recommended he not transfer out of the scheme. Mr W was not an experienced investor 
or someone who appears to have possessed the requisite skill, knowledge or confidence to 
against the advice they was given, particularly in complex pension matters. Mr Ws pension 
accounted for most of his private retirement provision at the time  so, if Cambrian 
Associates had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the BSPS, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ws concerns about the scheme were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And in 
relation to Mr Ws desire to break all ties with his employer - its clear that he still worked for 
the same employer and he intended to continue to do so. Mr W was also a member of the 
new DC pension scheme. So, Mr W wasnt going to achieve a separation from his employer 
by transferring as he would remain tied to his employer in other respects.
So, if Cambrian Associates had explained all of this and that Mr W could likely meet all of his 
objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant 
weight. So, I dont think Mr W wouldve insisted on transferring out of the BSPS if Cambrian 
Associates had given suitable advice that he not do so and that his decision to opt into the 
BSPS2 was the right one in the circumstances.
In light of the above, I think Cambrian Associates should compensate Mr W for the 
unsuitable advice, in line with the regulatory rules for calculating redress for non-compliant 
pension transfer advice.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr W. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
Cambrian Associates  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the 
emotional and practical impact this had on Mr W. Taking everything into account, including 
that I consider Mr Ws retirement provision is of great importance to him given its 
significance in his overall retirement income provision, I think the unsuitable advice has 
caused him some distress. So I think an award of £200 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would 
most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and moved to the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given.
Cambrian Associates must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Cambrian Associates should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the 
redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr W and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr W has not yet retired, and he has no firm plans to do so at present. So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ws 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Cambrian Associates should:
calculate and offer Mr W redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr W before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr W receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr W accepts Cambrian Associates offer to calculate how much of their redress 
could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr W for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ws end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr W as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Cambrian Associates may make a notional deduction to cash lump 
sum payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from 
their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% 
would have been taxed according to Mr Ws likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed 
to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
Cambrian Associates should also pay Mr W £200 for the distress and inconvenience the 
matter has caused.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Cambrian Associates 
Limited to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Cambrian Associates Limited pays Mr W the balance.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Cambrian Associates 
Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman