DRN-1097567
The complaint
Mr W complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) irresponsibly lent to him.   
What happened
Mr W applied for a credit card with Aqua in 2014. Based on the information he provided, 
Aqua accepted his application and opened his account on 11 August 2014. Aqua initially 
gave Mr W a credit limit of £250. But on 4 January 2016 his credit limit was increased to 
£1000. 
Mr W said prior to this increase he was subject to a Debt Management Plan (DMP), which 
included his debt to Aqua. He also said, by this point, he had incurred many fees due to 
exceeding his credit limit and making late payments to his Aqua account and payday loans 
he had taken out.  So he didnt feel it should have increased his credit limit and complained 
to Aqua that it had irresponsibly lent to him. He said the credit limit increase led to financial 
difficulties and caused his financial situation to spiral out of control. 
After Aqua investigated it said it hadnt done anything wrong when it approved his credit card 
application. And it explained that it carried out appropriate affordability checks prior to 
increasing his credit limit. So, it was satisfied Mr W could afford the borrowing and, it said, 
hed been given the option to decline the increase hed been offered. It also said it had 
accepted his reduced payment arrangements when it became aware he was experiencing 
financial difficulties and defaulted his account and sold it to a debt collection agency (DCA) 
in August 2017 in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ws account. So, Aqua rejected 
his complaint. 
Being dissatisfied with Aquas response to his complaint Mr W referred it to our service. Our 
investigator looked into this and upheld Mr Ws complaint. Overall, they thought Aquas 
decision to approve his application for a credit card was fair. But they didnt think it had acted 
responsibly in increasing his credit limit to £1000. So, they recommended Aqua refund all 
interest, fees and charges Mr W incurred as a result of his credit limit being increased to 
£1000. And they told Aqua to either buy back Mr Ws account from the DCA and make the 
necessary adjustments or pay an appropriate amount to the DCA for it to make the 
necessary adjustments to pay Mr W an amount equivalent to the reduction needed on the 
outstanding balance. They also told Aqua it should remove any negative entries on Mr Ws 
credit file resulting from the credit limit increase.
Aqua agreed to remove the interest and charges from when it increased Mr Ws credit limit, 
which it said totalled £739.70. But it wasnt prepared to amend any information recorded on 
his credit file because it said it was obliged to provide a true and accurate reflection of a 
customers payment history. And it felt removing what was recorded would be unfair. Our 
investigator reviewed their previous recommendation and upheld Aquas comments. But Mr 
W disagreed with our investigators view and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to make it clear at the outset that, while a DCA was also involved in how Mr Ws 
outstanding account balance was dealt with, this complaint relates only to what Aqua did. 
So, Ill limit my findings to whether it acted fairly and reasonably here. 
The first issue Ive considered is whether Aquas decision to approve Mr Ws credit card 
application was irresponsible. 
Mr W feels he shouldnt have been given credit by Aqua because he was in debt with a 
number of companies when he opened his account. But this wouldnt necessarily mean 
Aquas decision to approve his credit card application was wrong. It offers cards to people 
who want to improve their credit rating because they have poor or absent credit history. So it 
wouldnt be unusual for an Aqua customer to have debts pre-existing elsewhere, or for it to 
decline lending just for this reason.
Aqua was required to lend responsibly to Mr W. Before agreeing to do so, it should have 
assessed the affordability of credit to ensure that Mr W could afford to repay what he was 
borrowing. Its up to Aqua which checks it carries out but they need to be reasonable and 
proportionate to, for example, the amount being borrowed, the cost of repayment and a 
customers lending history. We cant say a lender shouldve done any particular check and 
there isnt a set list of checks it needed to do.
Before approving Mr Ws credit card application, Aqua said it made a credit assessment  
using its own internal risk strategies and information supplied by Mr W and credit reference 
agencies (CRAs). It said that, after doing so, it was satisfied Mr W met its acceptance 
criteria. 
I can see that when Mr W applied for a credit card he declared an income of £12000 with 
unsecured debt of around £2700. Aqua said no arrears or defaults were recorded with 
CRAs. Given this, and the relatively small amount of credit Aqua offered him, I think it was 
reasonable for it to have accepted Mr Ws initial application with a relatively small credit limit.
Ill turn now to Mr Ws complaint insofar as it relates to the credit limit increase Aqua gave 
him in January 2016.
Before it changes a customers credit limit Aqua said it reviews how theyre using their card 
and managing other credit commitments. It says it makes risk based assessments to ensure 
its lending is appropriate to a customers financial circumstances. And based on these 
assessments it may either increase or decrease a customers credit limit.
Aqua said Mr Ws account was reviewed on 4 January 2016 and, at that point, he became 
eligible for a credit limit increase to £1000. It stated he met the criteria to qualify for an 
increase on this occasion and, while it offered him the opportunity to opt out of that increase, 
the new credit limit took effect on 8 January 2016. Aqua said this suggests Mr W proactively 
contacted it to accept the increase because a customer would usually have up to 40 days to 
opt in or out of a credit limit increase. 
Aqua accepts Mr W incurred over limit and late fees prior to increasing his credit limit. 
However, it said these dont automatically exclude a customer from being considered for a 
credit limit increase. It explained its policy is to exclude customers who are consistently over the limit and consistently make late payments in each of the three months leading up to the 
increase.
Ive carefully considered the statements of Mr Ws account to see how he was managing his 
account prior to the credit limit increases. I can see in the 12 months leading up to the date 
his credit limit increased he incurred eight late fees and four over limit fees. From September 
2015 until January 2016 Mr W incurred a late payment fee each month. Its clear to me that 
Mr W was struggling to manage his account when his credit limit was only £250. I appreciate 
that Mr W didnt decline the credit limit increase he was offered by Aqua. But I think 
quadrupling his credit limit in January 2016 against this background was irresponsible. And 
Im persuaded the new credit limit increased Mr W's indebtedness substantially and further 
evidenced his inability to manage his account. 
I can see that immediately after Aqua increased Mr Ws credit limit he spent up to and 
exceeded his new limit quickly. He incurred over limit and late fees and used his account to 
fund gambling and make a number of cash advances. The UK Cards Association best 
practice guidelines on credit card limit increases issued in 2011 points to this sort of 
behaviour as being a risk indicator that a customer is showing signs of financial difficulty. 
I appreciate that Aqua may not have been able to predict exactly how Mr W might have 
utilised his new credit limit. But Im persuaded that, based on the information it had available, 
a fuller financial review of his account management and borrowing elsewhere prior to 
January 2016 would have been appropriate here. 
I also think a fuller financial review would have presented a picture of someone who was 
experiencing financial difficulties and falling further into debt. And Im persuaded this would 
have, most likely, deterred it from increasing Mr Ws credit limit. Im not persuaded that a 
reasonable lender, even one that targeted the same customer demographic as Aqua, 
wouldve made the same decision to increase Mr Ws credit limit in January 2016 based on 
how he had been managing his account. So, I dont think Aqua acted reasonably in 
increasing Mr Ws credit limit.
Aqua said when it was notified Mr W was experiencing financial difficulties it worked with him 
to assess the affordability of his monthly payments. And it set up a reduced repayment plan 
of monthly payments, which it felt was affordable to Mr Ws personal circumstances at that 
time. I can see this plan was reviewed regularly. In taking such action I think Aqua treated 
him positively and sympathetically as wed expect it to. I can also see the interest on Mr Ws 
account was waived while he made reduced payments. A lender doesnt have to do this and 
I think Aqua acted fairly here overall.  
Aqua defaulted Mr Ws account on 31 August 2017. He feels this date is incorrectly recorded 
on his credit file. But, as our investigator explained, this issue wasnt raised as part of Mr Ws 
original complaint. So, I cant consider whether Aqua made an error in defaulting his account 
until its had an opportunity to investigate. I can see our investigator has recommended Mr W 
raise a new complaint with Aqua about this issue, which I think is good advice.
Part of Mr Ws complaint concerns Aquas decision to sell his outstanding balance to a DCA. 
But this is in accordance with the terms and conditions Ive seen so I cant fairly conclude it 
made an error. Its a commercial decision Aqua is entitled to take if it wishes and its 
common practice for businesses to take this action so that a DCA can take over, as they are 
generally more able to be more flexible with the payments and amounts theyre able to 
accept without any further charges or interest being applied.
Finally, Mr W complains that adverse information has been recorded on his credit file, which 
relates to how he managed his account after his credit limit was increased. However, I can see this information has been recorded by the DCA and not Aqua. I realise Mr W will be 
disappointed with this but he will need to take his concerns regarding the fairness any 
entries on his credit file up with the DCA directly because it isnt a party to this complaint.
Putting things right
In thinking about the fairest way to resolve this complaint for Mr W, Ive taken into 
consideration that he used the money that the limit increase made available to him. But, as I 
dont think Aqua should have increased his credit limit, it should reconstruct Mr Ws account 
as though the credit limit increase from £250 to £1000 hadnt taken place. It should 
recalculate the interest payable as if it was based on a credit limit of £250 and refund all 
interest and charges it applied to Mr Ws account on any balance above that limit.
As Ive explained Mr Ws account has been passed to a DCA. So, Aqua should either buy 
that account back from the DCA and make the necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the 
DCA in order for it to make the necessary adjustments, or pay Mr W an amount equivalent to 
the reduction needed on the outstanding balance. Other than this Im not directing Aqua to 
do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd (T/A Aqua) should do the 
following to resolve this complaint:
Reconstruct Mr W's account as though the credit limit increase from £250 to £1000 
hadnt taken place. 
Recalculate the interest payable as if it was based on a credit limit of £250 and 
refund all interest and charges it applied to Mr Ws account on any balance above 
that limit.  
Either buy that account back from the DCA and make the necessary adjustments, 
pay an amount to the DCA in order for it to make the necessary adjustments, or pay 
Mr W an amount equivalent to the reduction needed on the outstanding balance.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman