DRN-3731718
The complaint
Mr M complains that @SIPP Limited incorrectly delayed the transfer of his pension for a 
period of 11 months.
What happened
Mr M contacted @SIPP in January 2022 to advise that he had left his employment because 
of issues with his mental health and was unable to carry out the job he was previously doing. 
He also advised @SIPP that his doctor had confirmed Mr M was not capable of carrying out 
the job he was doing and needed time to recover. Mr M requested that some of the funds in 
his pension be released.
@SIPP contacted Mr M by email on 14 January 2022 to request that evidence of his leaving 
employment was provided. @SIPP also told Mr M that, in order to grant early payment of 
benefits on health grounds, the conditions in paragraph 1 of Schedule 28 of the Finance Act 
2004 need to be satisfied. @SIPP listed the requirements under these conditions which are 
as follows:
the scheme administrator has received evidence from a registered medical practitioner 
that the member is (and will continue to be) incapable of carrying on the member's 
occupation because of physical or mental impairment, and
the member has in fact ceased to carry on the member's occupation.
@SIPP told Mr M that they had no discretion on the matter and that, if the conditions are 
met, they will administer the relevant SIPP accordingly.
On 21 January 2022, Mr M wrote to @SIPP in which he provided additional information from 
his doctor including information about the fact that his previous employment was contributing 
to the deterioration of his mental health.
On 1 February 2022, @SIPP sent an email to Mr M to say that they had looked over his 
documents and confirmed that they did not meet the requirements set out in their previous 
emails.
Mr M replied to say that he thought @SIPP was wrong and that he wished to appeal. Mr M 
said that he had provided all of the information required by the law and asked to speak to the 
head of technical by telephone. Mr M also said that he thought it had taken far too long and 
that @SIPP were addressing the matter as if it related to a physical illness rather than a 
mental one and that the wording of the law should be clearer with respect to mental health. 
Mr M asked for @SIPP to go ahead with the release as it was up to him to take any minimal 
risk. Mr M described the whole experience of the transfer as disastrous.
On 8 February 2022, @SIPP responded to Mr M to apologise for the time taken to revert. 
They told Mr M that they needed a registered medical practitioner to attest that Mr was 
incapable, and would continue to be, of carrying on his occupation. They advised that what 
had been provided by Mr M did not amount to this.
Mr M replied to @SIPP to say that they were wrong and that it was not possible for his 
doctor to say he was incapable with respect to mental illness and that it depended on what 
he reported to her. Mr M repeated that he thought the law was not written well and needed to 
be updated and said he wished to appeal.
On 9 February 2022, @SIPP emailed Mr M to note that he thought the law could be 
improved but reiterated that they had no discretion on this point and had to apply the law as 
it was laid down. They told Mr M that, as a result of the mental health assessment, an 
opinion needed to be provided as to whether Mr M was capable of carrying on his 
employment and whether this was likely to be the case until normal minimum pension age. 
They told Mr M that he could raise a formal complaint if he was dissatisfied.
Mr M replied the same day to say he thought @SIPP were interpreting the wording of the 
law as far as their requirements were concerned and that the information provided so far is 
adequate when considering his situation. Mr M also said that he considered @SIPP had far 
too much power and that they were not using it well.
In @SIPPs email on 10 February 2022, they tell Mr M that they require a registered medical 
practitioner to give their opinion on whether the condition laid down in the Finance Act 2004 
is satisfied or not. They repeated that they do not have any discretion on this point and that 
their view was that the letters from Mr Ms doctor are not acceptable from this perspective. 
@SIPP say that these letters fail to reference the criteria that needs to be satisfied under 
pension tax law or to give a view on whether or not the criteria is in fact satisfied.
On 19 April 2022, following a complaint from Mr M, @SIPP sent Mr M a final response to his 
complaint regarding the matter concerning Mr Ms ill health. @SIPP repeated the ill-health 
condition which they consider needs to be met before authorised pension payments can be 
made. They summarised the requirement as follows: They receive evidence that a member 
is, and will continue to be, medically incapable (either physically or mentally) of continuing 
their current occupation as a result of injury, sickness, disease or disability.
@SIPP said that the evidence provided did not meet the criteria required for them to make a 
payment on ill-health grounds and did not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Our investigators view was that:
Any person looking to access benefits from a pension before their 55th birthday would 
only be able to do so under an exception for circumstances where a medical issue 
means they will have no reasonable access to employment
@SIPP were required to request and review evidence to make a reasonable 
determination as to whether the circumstances allow for the exemption to be applied
@SIPP did this and determined that the circumstances didnt allow for the exemption to 
be used
@SIPP had a certain amount of discretion however there needed to be significant 
evidence to change this position
@SIPP requested the information they might be expected to request and have reviewed 
the evidence
The decision reached by @SIPP is not an unreasonable one and it is not fair to say that this decision is categorically wrong based on the rules as they are written
In response to this, Mr M said that the illness he was reporting didn't need to be permanently 
incapacitating, and that the law says this. He also said that @SIPP had applied too strict a 
reading of the law and that this was poorly written and out of date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considered the view given by our investigator, I have reached the same 
conclusion and will not be upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Mr Ms claim is that @SIPP are not interpreting the applicable law correctly and that the 
evidence he has provided so far in support of his request to have his pension funds released 
early is sufficient.
Looking at the correspondence between @SIPP and Mr M, I can see a Statement of Fitness 
for Work completed by Mr Ms doctor which confirms their advice that Mr M is not fit for work 
on account of stress. In addition to this, Mr Ms doctor also provided a letter which says that 
Mr M is being treated for longstanding depression and his symptoms have been worsened 
by work related stress. It also says Mr M has been signed off work for the past month and 
that Mr M has told his doctor that he needs more time off work to fully manage his 
symptoms.
In response to receiving this, @SIPP told Mr M that the information provided did not meet 
the requirement set out in their previous correspondence. To reiterate, in previous 
correspondence, @SIPP referenced Schedule 28 of the Finance Act 2004 saying that a 
registered medical practitioner should provide evidence that Mr M was incapable of carrying 
on his occupation because of physical or mental impairment.
@SIPP also told Mr M that, if his doctor could supply confirmation that, in their opinion, Mr M 
was incapable and would continue to be incapable of carrying out his occupation, that would 
be acceptable.
My view on this is that @SIPP are correct in that the documents provided by Mr M do not 
meet the requirements set out under Schedule 28 of the Finance Act 2004. The Statement 
and Letter provided by Mr Ms doctor did not mention Mr Ms ability to carry on his 
occupation, merely that Mr M had been signed off from work for the past month and had told 
his doctor that he needed more time off. In order to comply with the wording set out in the 
Finance Act, the information provided by Mr Ms doctor should have also said either that, in 
the doctors opinion, Mr M was not able to carry out his occupation or that the condition in 
1(a) of Part 1, Schedule 28 of the Finance Act 2004 had been satisfied. I cannot see that this 
is included.
In relation to Mr M saying that he does not think @SIPP have interpreted the law correctly in 
rejecting the information provided, I understand that Mr M may expect a different 
interpretation of the legislation however upon my reading of the relevant part of the Finance 
Act 2004, I cant see that @SIPP had any choice but to reject the information in this way 
because they simply have not received information from Mr Ms doctor about his ability to 
carry on his occupation in the way the Act sets out. From this standpoint, I do not see any 
other way to interpret the language used. Therefore I think @SIPP acted reasonably.As to the point made by Mr M that any illness does not need to be permanently 
incapacitating, I agree that this may be the case. However since Mr Ms doctor had not 
provided an opinion on whether or not Mr M was incapable of carrying on with his 
employment, I do not think this is relevant. Had @SIPP rejected Mr Ms request because the 
information provided by Mr Ms doctor did not relate to a permanent incapacity, the question 
of whether or not this were reasonable would need to be discussed but this is not the case 
here.
Mr M has also said that he considers that the law is poorly written with respect to its 
relevance to mental health conditions. Unfortunately, whilst I appreciate that this is 
sometimes the case, I cannot comment on this point except to say that @SIPP are only able 
to comply with the law as it is written and I consider that they have done that here.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Rana Chatterjee
Ombudsman