DRN-3281153
The complaint
In summary, Mrs D has complained that Monmouthshire Building Society closed her 
grandchildrens savings accounts without any good reason for doing so.
What happened
Mrs D opened savings accounts for her granddaughters. She was the signatory and trustee 
of the accounts.
In 2021 Monmouthshire gave Mrs D two months notice that it was closing the accounts, 
which it said was in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account. It 
subsequently told Mrs D it was closing the accounts because it didnt think they had been 
operated in keeping with the spirit of the young savers product. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ds concerns. She explained that Monmouthshire 
was allowed to do this and didnt have to provide detailed reasoning. Mrs D didnt agree so 
the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand that Mrs D is unhappy her grandchildrens accounts were closed. And I can 
also appreciate that she is also frustrated that Monmouthshire hasnt provided her with a 
detailed explanation as to why it closed the accounts. But I need to consider whether 
Monmouthshire did anything wrong in closing the accounts and with the amount of 
information it gave her about why it did so. 
In respect of the closure of the accounts, Monmouthshire was allowed to do this unilaterally. 
Clause 12.6 of the terms and conditions for the account allowed it to close the accounts with 
two months notice. I can see that Monmouthshire wrote to Mrs D in February 2021 informing 
her that the accounts would be closed. It provided notice in line with the account terms and 
conditions. And I think the 2 months notice it gave was a reasonable period of time. So, I 
dont think it did anything wrong by doing this. 
I do understand that Mrs D would have liked Monmouthshire to provide more detailed 
reasoning as to why it decided to close the accounts. But I dont think in this case it needed 
to say more than it did, as the terms and conditions clearly allowed it to close the accounts if 
it provided two months notice. And Ive not seen anything which it suggests it closed the 
accounts inappropriately. 
My final decision
I do understand that Mrs D will be disappointed with my decision, but for the reasons Ive set 
out above Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 
24 March 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman