DRN-3578130
The complaint
Mr B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc wont refund payments he made for goods that 
were not received. 
What happened
In April 2020, Mr B contacted Capital One and disputed a transaction for £16.45 hed made 
for a purchase on an online auction website and a transaction of £5.50 to an insurance 
provider. Capital One sent him a dispute form which he completed and returned. Capital One 
took steps to cancel the continuous payment authority for the insurance provider.
At the end of April 2020, Mr B contacted Capital One for an update on the claim. He 
explained he wanted a refund because hed never received the item hed ordered. In early 
May 2020, Capital One wrote to Mr B to ask for more information about what he said in his 
dispute form. Capital Ones records do not show any response was received.
In early June 2020, Mr B phoned Capital One and asked about the status of the dispute hed 
made about transactions to another e-commerce platform that Ill call W. Capital One 
explained that no formal dispute had been raised about transactions to W. As Mr B did not 
have internet access, Capital One said that it would get its disputes team to call him back. 
Capital Ones records show that it attempted to call Mr B on 15 June 2020 but didnt get a 
response. Its notes say that it sent Mr B a letter. 
On 7 August 2020, Mr B contacted Capital One to enquire about recent transactions hed 
made on his card. The notes suggest there was no discussion of any transactions being in 
dispute during this call.
On 25 August 2020, Mr B contacted Capital One to find out what was happening with the 
transactions to W hed disputed. Mr B was unhappy that the dispute team had not been in 
touch with him and raised a complaint. 
Capital One looked into Mr Bs concerns. It explained it had sent out documents and tried to 
call him to find out more about the disputes but hadnt received any response so hadnt 
taken things further. 
In September 2020, Capital One spoke to Mr B on the phone. Mr B explained that he wanted 
to dispute all of the transactions hed made with W, along with all of the transactions from an 
online auction website and another merchant that Ill call A. He said that he thought the items 
hed bought had been shipped to the wrong address. 
Capital One told Mr B it wanted more information from him about how hed tried to resolve 
the disputes with the merchants involved. Capital Ones records show that it asked Mr B for 
the information on 15, 19 and 22 September 2020. There is no record of any response. 
In December 2020, Mr B contacted Capital One and said he was unhappy with how long the 
disputes were taking. He explained there was now interest accruing on the transactions. 
Capital One said it had not been able to take the disputes further because Mr B hadnt 
provided the information that it needed. As part of its complaints process, it asked Mr B to 
submit the additional information. 
In January 2021, Capital One reviewed the information Mr B had provided but said it was 
now too late to raise the matter with the card scheme. 
Mr B remained unhappy and referred his concerns to this service. He felt Capital One had 
not supported him. He wanted Capital One to dispute the payments, remove the interest and 
charges that had been applied and clear his credit file.
One of our Investigators considered the matter. She agreed the transactions were now out of 
time for Capital One to dispute them. She recommended that the credit card company paid 
Mr B £100 in compensation because it had asked for him to submit information about the 
disputes when it was too late to raise a claim. 
Mr B felt the offer fell short. He said hed raised the disputes within the relevant timescale 
and had provided enough information about them. He asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed again.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Millions of card payments are made each day and most of those transactions are problem 
free. But there are occasions where an account holder may need to query a transaction 
applied to their account, perhaps if they dont recognise it or if they think something has 
gone wrong. 
Mr B made a number of claims around the same time. Initially he disputed two transactions, 
then he later disputed all of the transactions hed made to particular merchants. He told 
Capital One the goods ordered had not been received. As Mr B paid for these goods using 
his Capital One credit card, Ive thought about how Capital One handled his concerns and 
whether it has treated him fairly. 
There is no debate that Mr B made these transactions himself. He was buying goods online 
across a number of different merchants. But Capital One isnt obligated to automatically 
refund the transactions because Mr B hasnt received the items he has paid for. 
Ive thought about whether Mr B could have had a valid claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. Section 75 allows a card holder to claim against the credit 
provider if there has been a breach of contract such as goods not being supplied. 
For there to be a successful claim under Section 75, there are certain criteria that need to be 
satisfied. The cash price of the goods or services supplied must be more than £100. None of 
the transactions Mr B wanted to dispute were more than £100 in value. 
So, I dont think Capital One treated Mr B unfairly by not taking Section 75 into account when 
he asked it to help him with his disputes. 
I have gone on to think about whether Capital One should have attempted a chargeback. 
A chargeback is the process by which payment settlement disputes are resolved between 
card issuers and merchants, under the relevant card scheme rules. What this means is that 
Capital One can in certain circumstances ask for a payment Mr B made to be refunded. Ive looked at the rules that applied at the time Mr B made the transactions he disputes. The card 
scheme rules do cover circumstances where goods arent supplied. But a chargeback 
doesnt guarantee a refund and there is no obligation for Capital One to submit a chargeback 
even if Mr B asks it to.
I consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and there 
is a reasonable prospect of success. Each reason for raising a chargeback has its own set of 
requirements that need to be met. These rules are set by the card scheme. If Capital One 
submits a claim that does not meet the card schemes criteria, it will not be successful. Here 
Capital One didnt attempt chargebacks for the transactions Mr B wanted to dispute, so Ive 
thought about whether it acted fairly by not doing so. 
Ive looked closely at the relevant rules for a chargeback claim when goods or services have 
not been provided. The rules say that the claim must be raised within 120 days of the 
payment being made. They also outline that the card issuer needs to provide a reasonably 
specific description of the goods that have been purchased and the problem. Mr B thought 
hed done what he needed to do in order to support a claim. But Capital One had tried to tell 
him on a number of occasions that it needed more detail to understand the nature of his 
disputes.
Ive thought about whether the reason Mr B didnt provide the required level of detail about 
the disputes was because of confusion caused by the way Capital One handled things. But 
from what I have seen, Capital One requested the information it required from Mr B and 
attempted to contact him by phone and by letter to follow things up as it knew that he did not 
have internet access. 
Unfortunately, Mr B didnt provide the information promptly after it was requested. Without 
this additional information, I dont think Capital Ones decision to not pursue the claims any 
further was unreasonable. I say this because without being able to meet the basic 
requirements of the chargeback reason code, there was arguably no reasonable prospect of 
the claims succeeding. There are strict time limits for completing a chargeback set out within 
the card scheme rules. When Mr B provided the information Capital One needed, it was 
already too late. 
Ive also thought about whether there was enough within what Mr B had already told Capital 
One to allow it to raise the chargebacks in any event. But Mr B hadnt addressed the issues 
which the chargeback code required. Hed not given Capital One enough information to 
understand what he'd wanted to purchase, the address hed given for shipment or the steps 
hed taken to try and follow up with the merchants. Capital Ones notes from the time 
suggest it was not clear exactly what was in dispute and I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Capital One to want to clarify things given that Mr B had raised concerns about transactions 
made to a number of different merchants. 
In addition to this, I am mindful that the MasterCard card scheme has minimum values for a 
chargeback to be raised. It is unlikely that Capital One would have been able to raise claims 
for the transactions Mr B wanted to dispute that were for less than £10 even if he had 
provided sufficient detail about them within the card schemes timescale. 
I am sorry to have to disappoint Mr B. Hes been in contact with Capital One about these 
transactions on and off for a long time and he has explained that the transactions have since 
turned into a debt. But from everything that I have seen, as Mr B didnt provide the 
information Capital One needed to correctly submit the chargebacks within the relevant 
timescale, it did not treat him unfairly by not taking those claims any further. 
Capital One accepts that it caused Mr B inconvenience by asking him to submit information when the deadline to raise the claims had already passed. It agreed to pay £100 
compensation. I think this is a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct Capital One (Europe) 
plc to pay Mr B £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused if it has not 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman