DRN-3894212
Complaint
Mr H is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) recorded a fraud 
prevention marker against him. 
Background
In September 2018, Mr Hs NatWest account received three payments from a third-party. 
The funds were quickly exited through a transfer to a third-party and cash machine 
withdrawals. Shortly afterwards, NatWest was contacted by one of its customers, who sent 
the payments to Mr Hs account, saying that they were scammed into making the payments. 
As a result of this, NatWest reviewed Mr Hs account, decided to close it and also record a 
fraud prevention marker against Mr H.
Upon subsequently learning of the fraud marker, Mr H complained. NatWest looked at        
Mr Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr H remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to 
our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Hs concerns. She didnt think that NatWest had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr H disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
The marker that NatWest has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr H is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that NatWest must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Hs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
NatWest also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr H was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr H allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Hs complaint, I need to decide whether I think NatWest had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Hs account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that NatWest has 
done this here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Hs 
account in September 2018, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr H was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate funds. 
Mr H says he doesnt know anything about the activity in question. Hes said that his 
notebook as well as his card were lost, for a period of time, when he was at work and as 
these were returned he didnt think much of it. He says that the notebook had all of his online 
banking login details as well as his Personal Identification Number (PIN) on it and he 
believes this is what led to the activity taking place. 
Ive thought about what Mr H has said. But Im afraid Mr Hs inability to provide anything to 
corroborate his version of events makes it difficult to place much weight on what he is now 
saying. I realise that these events took place some time ago and that this could explain why 
Mr Hs recollections may have changed during the course of his complaint. 
But I have to weigh this against the fact that a number of transactions took place for a period 
after the fraudulent activity took place. This included a transfer of a small amount of funds 
from Mr Hs savings account to his current account. I find it unlikely that an opportunistic 
fraudster would carry out such activity and given I think Mr H did log into his account after, I 
would have expected him to have noticed the activity which took place and also have 
questioned it at the time. As Mr H didnt, I cant reasonably agree that he had nothing to do 
with the activity. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that NatWest did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Hs account. And given Im not persuaded 
by Mr Hs version of events, Im satisfied that NatWest was also reasonably entitled to 
conclude that it was more likely than not Mr H was complicit in this. As this is the case, I 
dont think that it was unfair for NatWest to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did and Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr H  especially in light of the ongoing impact 
hes said the fraud marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Mr H 
might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies for a 
Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman