DRN-3866205
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the way British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with her 
claim under her HomeCare policy.
What happened
Miss S is a landlord and took out plumbing and drains cover with British Gas to cover her 
rented property. In December 2021 Miss S contacted British Gas to report that there was no 
hot water at the property. British Gas attended on four occasions but failed to properly 
diagnose and resolve the issue. On one occasion Miss S was wrongly advised that the 
shower was the problem and she paid £99 to repair it. 
Miss S then instructed her own plumber to attend the property on 1 March 2022 at a cost of 
£198. He said that the water cylinder needed to be replaced. A new cylinder was ordered, 
and a British Gas engineer attended on 23 March 2022 to instal the cylinder  and the 
problem was resolved.
Miss S complained to British Gas about the service shed received. It accepted that it had 
taken too long to resolve the hot water problem and that this caused inconvenience to Miss 
S and her tenant. It also accepted that it had sent a letter to Miss S in an inaccessible format 
and apologised. It paid Miss S £390 compensation for poor service. British Gas also 
refunded the £99 and £198 that Miss S had paid out for plumbing services. 
Miss S accepted the compensation and refunds from British Gas but also asked it to pay for 
other consequential losses. She said she paid £475 compensation to her tenant and a 
contribution of £521.14 towards increased energy consumption. She also claimed £1,050 
from British Gas for loss of rent as her tenant moved out early due to the problems. 
British Gas declined to reimburse the lost rent or the tenants compensation but said it would 
consider the increase in energy consumption if Miss S provided comparable energy bills 
from the previous year. Miss S then brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think British Gas had treated Miss S fairly and that it was reasonable 
for it to refund the compensation Miss S had paid her tenant and the contribution to the 
energy usage  plus interest. She didnt think it reasonable to expect British Gas to 
compensate Miss S for the tenant moving out early as the tenant could have moved out for 
other reasons as well. She thought the £390 compensation for poor service was fair.
British Gas didnt agree and asked for comparable energy bills so they could consider the 
energy usage and evidence that the £475 compensation had been paid. The complaint was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Compensation to the tenant
Miss S says that there was poor provision of hot water from December 2021 and no hot 
water from 25 February 2022 to 23 March 2022. British Gas say that having attended on 7 
December 2021 it wasnt aware of any further problems with the hot water until the 24 
January 2022, and so it shouldnt be held responsible for this period. Miss S accepts there 
was a gap between call outs but that this wasnt because the problem was fixed. It was 
because the tenant thought, having had the engineer out, that the water was as good as it 
would get. Whilst I accept that British Gas cant repair something its not aware of, there 
were ongoing issues as a result of the problem not being properly diagnosed. 
When a business makes a mistake, its generally fair for it to put the customer back into the 
position they would have been in had things gone the way they should. British Gas accept 
that there was misdiagnosis of the problem and delays sorting it out. As a result of this Miss 
S had to pay compensation to her tenant for lack of hot water  and she is out of pocket. 
British Gas asked for evidence of the compensation and Miss S has provided this. Ive seen 
a letter from Miss Ss letting agent, an agreement signed by Miss S and her tenant, and a 
landlords statement  all confirming that Miss S reduced the rent by £475. Im satisfied that 
Miss S lost £475  and that its fair for British Gas to refund this sum with interest at 8%.  
Contribution towards energy bills 
In order to assess whether Miss Ss tenants water and electricity usage went up, British Gas 
asked to see bills from the same period in 2020. Unfortunately, Miss S is not able to get 
these as she had a different tenant in the property the previous year and the utility company 
wont provide the bills as they were in the tenants name and not hers. I accept therefore that 
its not possible to make a comparison with the same months the previous year. Miss Ss 
tenant moved into the property in December 2021, shortly before the problems with the hot 
water started, and so its not possible for me to look at the tenants usage prior to the hot 
water issues either.  
As an alternative, Miss S asked her letting agents, who manage a number of properties at 
the address, to carry out a comparison with a tenant with a similar lifestyle. They did this and 
concluded that Miss Ss tenant had paid £521.14 more than the similar tenant over the same 
period. Trying to calculate usage is not an exact science and I accept that it would be 
preferable to compare usage by the same tenant. However, this is simply not possible, and I 
think that the comparison made is the best option available. 
British Gas was provided with a copy of the tenants utility bills. It commented that it was 
being asked to reimburse virtually the whole of the energy used and that one of the bills was 
estimated. However, Ive looked at the calculations made by the letting agent and while Miss 
S paid £521.14, the tenant paid over £400  so Im satisfied that the bills were shared. The 
estimated reading was in January 2022 and was taken into account in the following bill, so I 
dont think this has produced an inaccurate result overall.
British Gas has also commented that if the electricity bill went up then the gas bill should 
have gone down. However, there is no gas at the property.
Ive seen confirmation from the letting agent that Miss S paid £521.14 in total towards the 
utility bills and so I think it fair that British Gas reimburse this sum to her with interest at 8%.
Tenant moving out
Miss Ss tenant moved out of the property before the end of the tenancy. Miss S says that this was because of the problems with the hot water and that the property was then empty 
for two months before she got a new tenant in. This cost her £1,050 in lost rent. 
I have to consider whether this is a loss which occurred as a result of British Gass mistakes 
 and I dont think it did. I note that the tenant moved out over two months after British Gas 
resolved the hot water issues  and Ive not seen anything to confirm that this was the sole 
reason the tenant moved. Its also not clear to me why there was a two month gap in finding 
a new tenant and I dont think it reasonable to say that this was the fault of British Gas.
I dont therefore think it would be fair to require British Gas to compensate Miss S for the two 
months lost rent. 
Compensation
Miss S says that the poor service she received caused her a lot of stress and she had to 
spend many hours liaising with British Gas engineers and her tenant trying to resolve things. 
Whilst Miss S wasnt directly affected by the lack of hot water, I accept that the situation 
must have been very frustrating. Her tenant was unhappy, and she had to try to sort out the 
hot water problems by appointing her own engineer. The problem went on longer than it 
should and so caused additional distress and inconvenience.
Miss S also complained to British Gas about a letter that was sent to her in the post. She felt 
that this could be considered discrimination under the Equality Act 2010 as she had 
instructed British Gas to communicate with her by email or telephone  and she had been 
unable to read the letter due to her disability. Its not the role of this service to determine 
whether British Gas breached the Equality Act 2010 as this is the job of the courts. However, 
Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given that its 
relevant law  but Ive ultimately based my decision on whats fair and reasonable. 
British Gas apologised to Miss S and explained that this was a standard letter following a 
complaint and was always sent by post. However, it acknowledged that its process was at 
fault and said that it was working to change this. I appreciate that the letter would have 
caused Miss S distress as she would need someone to read it to her. However, I dont think 
that British Gas intended to treat Miss S unfairly as the remainder of Miss Ss 
communications were sent in her preferred format. 
British Gas accepted that it had made mistakes and has already paid Miss S a total of £390 
compensation. I think this sum is fair in all the circumstances and I wont be asking British 
Gas to pay any additional compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
pay Miss S £475 to cover the compensation she paid to her tenant;
pay Miss S £521.14 for her contribution towards her tenants utility bills; and
pay simple interest at 8% on the above sums from the date Miss S made payment of 
these sums to the date the monies are reimbursed to her.If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss S how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss S a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman