DRN-3841396
The complaint
Ms B, a sole trader, is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc terminated her Bounce Back Loan 
(BBL) agreement for non-payment after sending payment reminders to a wrong address.
What happened
In 2020, Ms B successfully applied to HSBC for a £15,000 BBL. In 2022, Ms B learned that 
HSBC had terminated her BBL agreement for non-payment and had passed the debt to a 
third-party debt recovery agency (DRA). Ms B wasnt happy about this as she hadnt 
received any notice from HSBC that her BBL was in arrears. So, she raised a complaint.
HSBC responded to Ms Bs complaint and noted that theyd tried to contact Ms B about the 
arrears on her BBL via several different channels, including by mail, email, and phone. 
HSBC also confirmed that no payments had been received towards the BBL for several 
months and so didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by terminating the agreement as they had.
HSBC also noted Ms Bs objection that shed updated her personal and business address 
with HSBC, but that the BBL arrears letters had then been sent incorrectly to her old 
address. HSBC acknowledged that Ms B may have been given incorrect information about 
her business address being updated when she updated her personal address and they 
apologised to Ms B if this had been the case and offered to make a payment of £100 to her 
as compensation for any upset or trouble this may have caused. Ms B wasnt satisfied with 
HSBCs response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Ms B had been 
responsible for monitoring and paying the BBL, even if the arrears reminders had been sent 
to an incorrect address, and so felt that HSBCs response to Ms Bs complaint was fair. Ms B 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B feels that because HSBC didnt update her business address correctly  which meant 
that BBL arrears notices were sent to her old address and so werent received by her  it 
isnt fair that HSBC then defaulted her account when no payments towards the BBL were 
received  because she wasnt aware that payments werent being made because she 
wasnt receiving the notices from HSBC which would have informed her about this.
Ms B has explained that when she updated her personal address details to her new address, 
she was told by HSBCs online chat agent that her business address details would be 
updated as well and that she didnt need to do anything further in this regard. 
HSBC have looked to find the online chat that Ms B references but have been unable to 
locate it. HSBC also note that their agents, including those interacting with customers via 
online chat, should all be aware that it wouldnt be the case that business contact details 
would be updated automatically when personal contact details are updated  because a 
person and a business are separate entities with separate profiles and accounts. 
However, in the absence of being able to confirm otherwise, HSBC have accepted that Ms B 
may have been given incorrect information in this regard and have offered to make a £100 
payment to as compensation for any upset and inconvenience this may have caused.
But even accepting that Ms B may have incorrectly been told that she didnt need to 
personally update her business contact details because theyd be updated automatically 
given that shed updated her personal contact details, I dont feel that this absolves Ms B of 
her responsibility as the BBL account holder to monitor her BBL and to be aware of when 
payments on the BBL were due and whether they were being made.
Regardless of whether Ms B was receiving arrears notices by mail from HSBC, it was her 
responsibility to have been aware of the status of her BBL  which she reasonably could 
have done by several channels, including by online and telephone banking  and known 
when payments towards the BBL were due. But Ms B didnt make any payments towards her 
BBL, which meant the account fell into arrears. And given that HSBC attempted to contact 
Ms B themselves channels other than mail  including by Ms Bs correct email address and 
correct telephone number  I dont feel it was unfair for HSBC to have terminated the BBL 
agreement as they did when the arrears on the loan continued to grow and remain unpaid. 
Ms B has explained that the reason the BBL payments werent made was because she 
closed the bank account from where the monthly payments were set to be made from shortly 
before they were due to start. Ms B is of course entitled to have done this. But by not setting 
up a replacement payment arrangement this resulted in no payments being received 
towards the BBL by HSBC. 
Ms B has also explained her personal circumstances to this service and asks that her status 
as person with vulnerabilities be considered here. Id like to confirm to Ms B that Ive done 
this, and while I acknowledge the difficulties that Ms Bs circumstances may present, I dont 
feel that they reasonably absolve her of her responsibilities as a BBL account holder  as 
Ive previously described them. 
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint in the manner that Ms B would 
like here. And this is because Im satisfied that it was Ms Bs responsibility to have ensured 
that payments to her BBL were being made, or to have proactively contacted HSBC prior to 
payments not being made, if she felt she would struggle to make them. 
Finally, regarding the £100 compensation that HSBC have offered Ms B for her potentially 
not being given correct information about her needing to actively update her business 
contact details, I also think this is a fair compensation amount for this specific matter and its 
commensurate with what I might have instructed HSBC to pay, had they not already offered 
to do so.
As such, while I will be upholding this complaint in Ms Bs favour, Ill only be doing so on a 
limited basis to compel HSBC to honour the £100 offer of compensation theyve already 
agreed to pay. And I wont be issuing any further instructions to HSBC beyond this point.
I realise this might not be the outcome Ms B was wanting, but I trust shell understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.   
Putting things right
HSBC must make a payment of £100 to Ms B.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman