DRN-3112404
The complaint
Mrs D has complained about how Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) 
dealt with a claim under a furniture insurance policy.
References to Acasta includes agents acting on its behalf.
  
What happened
Mrs D contacted Acasta to make a claim for two separate issues with her furniture. The 
recliner on part of the sofa had stopped working and there was also staining to the sofa and 
leather was peeling on parts of it. A technician visited and said the recliner needed a new 
mechanism. Acasta agreed to replace this but said the stains and peeling werent covered 
by the policy because Mrs D had said she had applied bleach to the sofa to clean it.
The recliner part needed to be ordered from the sofa supplier, which was overseas. Several 
months after the claim was first made, a technician visited to fit the part, but it wasnt at Mrs 
Ds home. It took about another seven months for the recliner to be repaired.
When Mrs D complained, Acasta accepted it had been responsible for about three months of 
the delays and offered £75 compensation. However, it said it was right to reject the claim for 
the stains and peeling to the sofa as it wasnt covered by the policy.
So, Mrs D complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said 
Acasta didnt need to deal with the stains and peeling to the sofa as this wasnt covered by 
the policy. However, he thought £250 more fairly reflected the inconvenience caused by the 
delays in repairing the recliner.
As Acasta didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 15 November 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
Mrs D made two claims for her furniture. One was for staining and peeling to the sofa. When 
Mrs D spoke to Acasta, she said she had tried to clean the sofa using bleach, which was 
when the damage happened. Acasta declined the claim because it said damage as the 
result of inappropriate cleaning products wasnt covered by the policy. Im aware that when 
Mrs D spoke to our investigator, she said had used a household cleaning product rather than 
bleach.
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions. These said the policy didnt cover:
Accidental damage (including staining) caused by the use of incorrect or inappropriate 
cleaning products or cleaning methods
Whether Mrs D used bleach or a household cleaning product, I think it was reasonable for 
Acasta to decide this wasnt a suitable product to clean a sofa with. So, I also think it was 
reasonable for Acasta to decline that claim.
For the recliner, Acasta agreed to cover this damage. However, it took over a year for the 
part to be fitted. Im aware that some of that wasnt down to Acasta, including because the 
part had to be ordered from overseas. I think it is likely that Covid-19 also had an impact. 
But, Ive looked at what Acasta was responsible for in terms of the delay and claim handling 
issues.
Looking at the records provided by Acasta, it ordered the part for the sofa from the 
manufacturer. It took a while for the manufacturer to send the part, but Acasta didnt seem to 
do anything further until a couple of months later. At that point, it received an invoice from 
the manufacturer for the part, so Acasta contacted Mrs D to say it had been notified that she 
had received the part. Mrs D told Acasta that she hadnt received it. Acasta said it would 
follow this up. However, it then sent an email to Mrs D asking her to make an appointment 
so a technician could visit to fit the part, followed by email reminders when she didnt book 
the appointment. So, Mrs D made the appointment and added a note that said:
Hope you have the spare parts needed to resolve this issue in question.
When the technician visited, he didnt have a part with him and there wasnt one at Mrs Ds 
house, which is what he seemed to have expected. Mrs D explained to the technician that 
she had booked the appointment as she had been advised the claim would be lost if she 
didnt. The same day, Mrs D also phoned Acasta to discuss this and Acastas notes said 
Advised logistics will look into these as we were advised parts arrived.
A few days later, Mrs D then received another email from Acasta saying: 
Having assessed your claim, I believe the best option to resolve your claim is to order 
replacement parts. My internal logistic department will liaise with the manufacturers of your 
furniture for availability and lead times and update you once then have some information.
By now it had been about eight months since Mrs D first made the claim. As Ive already 
said, I dont think all of the delay was due to Acasta, but there does seem to have been an 
issue with Acasta taking any action when Mrs D first told it the part hadnt arrived, which 
resulted in it sending an engineer despite the part not being available. It was only at this 
point that Acasta seemed to get in contact with the sofa company to say that the part hadnt 
arrived. Based on what Ive seen, there seem to have been a few times during this claim that 
Acasta didnt follow up on actions and issues.
When Acasta responded to Mrs Ds complaint, it accepted there had been multiple issues 
and delays with obtaining the part. In its final response letter, Acasta said:
In 2017, it took four months for your sofa to be made, shipped and delivered. Its likely that it 
would take significantly longer for any order placed now.
My decision is that it will be quicker to wait for the mechanism. [The manufacturer] say that 
the ship carrying the mechanism is due to dock at the end of April. It will need to clear 
customs which can take two weeks.
The mechanism should therefore be able to be fitted shortly after that. If there is a further 
delay beyond mid-May then I think you should be offered the choice of waiting longer or 
having a replacement sofa. I hope that [the manufacturer] deliver the mechanism on time 
and that you will soon be able to use the recliner. Ive asked the furniture claims team to 
update you as soon as there is news.Im aware that the part didnt arrive by mid-May.  I asked Acasta why it hadnt therefore done 
what it said it would in its final response letter by offering Mrs D the choice of waiting longer 
for the part to arrive or having a replacement sofa. Acasta said:
The intention of the letter was to lay out possible claim avenues for down the line
and that if the parts hadnt arrived as expected, then [Mrs D] could make the choice.
Looking at the wording of the letter, we can see how it could be read as she would be 
contacted. This has been raised with the  team to ensure complete clarity going forward.
Acasta also confirmed that the repairs had been carried out towards the end of July and that 
the sofa mechanism was now fully repaired and fully functioning. It said it had been repaired 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and that it couldnt see any reason why it 
should now replace a sofa with no damage or issues.
I dont think Acastas response explains why the offer wasnt put to Mrs D in May. Acasta set 
a deadline for how much longer it thought it would be reasonable for Mrs D to continue to 
wait for the part. The deadline passed and, rather than contacting Mrs D, it continued to 
contact the manufacturer about the part. 
Although the sofa has now been repaired, this only happened over two months after Acasta 
had said it would give Mrs D the choice of what to do next if the part still hadnt arrived. I 
dont think that was fair or reasonable. In my view, it also isnt fair to argue that because the 
repair has happened, the offer should now be ignored. I think Acasta is using hindsight to 
move away from a commitment that it made in its final response to the complaint. As the part 
didnt arrive by mid-May, I currently intend to say that Acasta should put the offer to Mrs D 
that it said it would. Given events have now moved on, that offer is whether Mrs D wants to 
accept the repair or to replace the sofa.
Ive also thought about compensation. Looking at what happened, I think Acasta made 
mistakes throughout this claim, including failing to follow up on outstanding issues. Although 
it was reliant on the manufacturer to send the part, Acasta could have followed up on this 
more quickly on a few occasions and I think this added to the delays and issues with this 
claim. As a result, I currently intend to say that Acasta should pay a total of £250 
compensation as I think this more fairly reflects the impact on Mrs D of how Acasta dealt 
with this claim.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 13 December 2021. Both parties responded before that date.
Mrs D agreed with my decision. She said Acasta didnt do what it had promised. She said 
Acasta didnt care about her or her well-being.
Acasta disagreed with my decision in terms of the sofa. It said the sofa had been repaired 
and that, as a result, the options in the final response letter had "expired". It accepted there 
had been massive delays and so accepted paying the higher compensation. But it said that 
at no point had Mrs D declined the sofa repair. As a result, the claim had been closed in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Acasta said the claim for bleach damage to the sofa had been declined and to now replace a 
working sofa would lead to betterment and cover a declined claim. It was also possible that a 
replacement would cause further inconvenience to Mrs D because lead times are significant 
due to pandemic disruption, customs changes, raw material shortages and shipping 
challenges. It said it was unlikely Mrs D would receive new furniture until late spring.
  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, Ive taken into account the strong views expressed by 
Acasta. I remain of the view that it was reasonable for Acasta to decline the claim for the 
bleach damage to the sofa, but that it needed to do what it said it would to resolve the 
complaint about the delays in carrying out the repair to the mechanism.
So, to be clear, what I have said Acasta must do is to put the offer to Mrs D that it said it 
would in its final response letter, which was a choice between replacing the sofa or having 
the repair carried out. If Acasta didnt think offering the option to replace the sofa was a 
proportionate response to the complaint, it shouldnt have made the offer in the first place. It 
wasnt me or this service that made the offer. In addition, if Acasta thinks it would be 
betterment to replace the sofa because the claim for bleach damage was declined, that was 
the case when it outlined the options to Mrs D if the delays continued. Acasta knew that the 
claim for the bleach damage had been declined when it issued the final response letter and 
still said it would give Mrs D the choice of waiting longer or replacing the sofa.
As Acasta is aware, the repair delays continued. When the time came for Acasta to make 
the offer to Mrs D, it didnt contact Mrs D to discuss her options. Instead, it waited another 
couple of months and then told Mrs D the part could now be fitted and made arrangements 
for that to happen. Although Mrs D might have accepted the repair, Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that Acasta put the options to Mrs D at that point either. So, in reality, Mrs Ds 
choice was between accepting the repair or continuing to live with a sofa that had been 
damaged over a year before. I dont think that was fair or reasonable given the options 
Acasta had outlined in its final response letter, which it didnt then follow up on with Mrs D.
Im aware that Acasta has also said there might be significant lead times for replacing the 
sofa. When Acasta puts the offer to Mrs D, it can, of course, explain any issues with lead 
times so that Mrs D is able to make an informed decision about whether she wants to 
replace the sofa or to accept the repair.
I also remain of the view that £250 is an appropriate amount of compensation.
  
Putting things right
Acasta must ask Mrs D whether she accepts the repair or wants the sofa replaced and act in 
line with Mrs Ds decision. It must also pay £250 compensation  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part. I require Acasta European Insurance Company Limited to:
Ask Mrs D whether she accepts the repair or wants the sofa replaced and Acasta must 
act in line with Mrs Ds decision.
Pay £250 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman