DRN-4406957
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Halifax General Insurance Services Limited (Halifax) mis-sold 
their home insurance policy and, after they made a claim, refused to renew cover. 
Mr and Mrs B jointly held buildings and contents insurance which they bought through 
Halifax. For ease of reading, Ill refer mainly to Mr B throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr B made a claim under his policy following a leak which damaged his kitchen. The full 
kitchen was replaced, and the underwriter settled the claim for undamaged items at 50% of 
the replacement cost. Mr B raised a complaint about the settlement with the underwriter 
which has been dealt with separately. The outcome was that the underwriter had applied the 
policy terms correctly and cover was limited to 50% of the cost for undamaged items.  
Mr B believed he had full cover for undamaged matching items, so he complained to Halifax 
which had sold the policy to him in 2016. Halifax said hed never had matching items cover, 
which Mr B disputed. Halifax went on to say that the cover was reduced to 50% at renewal in 
February 2022. However, Mr B said he hadnt been made aware of the change to the policy.
Halifax said it issued the renewal letters to the correct address, so it wasnt responsible for 
Mr B not receiving them. But Mr B didnt think Halifax had sent the letters because it had 
previously said thered never been matching items cover.
At the end of the policy term, Halifax told Mr B it wouldnt be offering to renew cover because 
of the number of claims hed made. Mr B said he was unhappy with being placed on a 
blacklist, so he brought the complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. She said the evidence showed that Halifax 
had generated the renewal letters which confirmed the policy changes. She also explained 
that although Halifax wouldnt offer cover, there was nothing to indicate that Halifax had 
placed Mr B on a blacklist. So, our investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong.
Mr B didnt agree. He said the burden of proof of despatch and receipt of the renewal letters 
lay with Halifax. Further, he said Halifaxs inconsistent comments about whether the 
matching items cover was ever available, followed by confirmation that it changed at the last 
renewal, suggest the letter was never sent. As a final point, Mr B said although he was 
relieved he hadnt been blacklisted, he maintained that Halifax said he had.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to them, especially as they felt sure their 
policy provided the matching items cover. But I havent seen anything in the evidence which 
persuades me Halifax did anything wrong. Ill explain my reasons under separate headings.
Mis-sale
Because Mr B first bought the policy in 2016, theres limited evidence available regarding the 
sale. Mr B said one of the deciding factors was that the Gold policy provided matching 
items cover. Halifax said the policy sale was non-advised and it never offered matching 
items, though I note it referred to a different level of cover. 
However, I dont think the details of the sale or the original policy matter here. Thats 
because Mr B did have matching items cover at a later renewal, and his complaint relates to 
a change after that rather than a change after the policy sale.
Im satisfied theres nothing for Halifax to put right in respect of this point.
2021 Renewal
Halifax provided a copy of the renewal documents for 2021 which show that matching items 
was included as a policy improvement. The evidence is clear, so Im satisfied that Mr B 
correctly stated that he had matching items cover. 
Mr B said Halifaxs comments cant be relied upon because of its incorrect statements about 
the cover he had under his policy. Ive thought carefully about what he said but I havent 
seen anything which causes me to share his concerns. Im satisfied that, more likely than 
not, Halifax made a simple mistake which doesnt make a difference to Mr Bs overall 
complaint outcome. 
2022 Renewal  
At this renewal, Halifax provided details of the policy changes, which included reducing 
matching items cover to 50% of the undamaged items. Looking at the renewal documents, 
Im satisfied that the changes are presented in such a way that they are easy to identify. In 
summary, the letter says there are changes to the policy and asks Mr B to look at them to 
decide whether cover still meets his needs. Renewal was automatic unless Mr B cancelled.
So, on the face of it, Im satisfied that Halifax confirmed the change in policy cover.
But Mr B said he didnt receive the renewal documents, so he wasn't aware of the change 
until he made his claim. The evidence shows that Halifax generated the renewal letter, 
addressed it correctly, and its notes record that the letter was issued. Based on the 
evidence, its more likely than not that Halifax posted the letter to Mr B. Its unlikely Halifax 
would generate the letter but not send it.
That said, I have no reason to doubt Mr Bs claim that he didnt receive it. However, I think 
Mr B had a responsibility to be aware of his home insurance. For example, the policy 
renewal date, the expectation to ensure the information is correct, and any change in 
premium would likely warrant attention.
Theres no requirement for Halifax to prove it sent the letter. Based on the balance of 
evidence available, Im satisfied it issued the renewal letter and Halifax isnt responsible for 
Mr B not receiving it. 
Policy renewalMr B is unhappy that Halifax wouldnt renew his policy and he believed it had blacklisted him. 
Halifax explained it didnt offer cover because of the number and value of claims Mr B had 
made in the previous six years and that hed need to notify any future insurers.
Halifax isnt required to offer Mr B insurance. It can only offer a policy based on the 
underwriting criteria, and Mr Bs circumstances were considered too high a risk. I cant say 
Halifax did anything wrong by not offering cover, and Mr B wouldve been free to seek a 
policy elsewhere. 
Although Mr B said Halifax told him he was blacklisted, and he felt sure there was a call 
recording or written confirmation, I havent seen any evidence of that. Looking at Mr Bs own 
record of events shows that he emailed to ask for a manual assessment of his risk after 
receiving Halifaxs letter telling him it had decided not to offer cover. He then called to say he 
hadnt heard anything, and later received a letter from Halifax confirming its decision. But Mr 
B didnt record anything in his own notes about being blacklisted. 
It would be reasonable for Halifax to explain to Mr B that hed need to tell any insurer that 
hed had cover refused. And it would also be reasonable for Halifax to tell him that the 
information was recorded on a database which other insurers would see. So I can see why 
Mr B might think hed been blacklisted. But the evidence suggests Halifax simply told Mr B 
about these circumstances for clarity. 
I dont find that Halifax did anything wrong by providing Mr B with appropriate information.
In summary, theres been some confusion when looking at Mr Bs policies over the years 
which led to Halifax providing inconsistent information when he complained. But I havent 
seen any evidence which persuades me that it caused Mr B any detriment in respect of his 
claim. Nor have I seen any evidence to persuade me that Halifax did anything wrong by not 
offering cover. 
Therefore, I see no reason to require anything of Halifax in respect of Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2023. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman