DRN-4175694
The complaint
Mr F has complained about his motor insurer West Bay Insurance Plc due to his son, a 
named driver, being accused of speeding, with cancellation threatened, and then the policy 
being cancelled.
What happened
Mr F has a policy which requires a device to be fitted to the car which monitors how the car 
is being driven. Mr F was told his son had been speeding and the policy would be cancelled 
as a result. This happened twice. On both occasions it was found the device had recorded 
Mr Fs son as being on a different road to the one hed been driving on. West Bay explained 
this as drift; a natural phenomenon of the type of device in question where GPS signals are 
blocked, and the system assumes which nearby road the car is being driven along. In this 
case the road assumed by the system had a lower speed limit attached to it than where 
Mr Fs son had actually been driving. So West Bay didnt cancel the policy.
West Bay sent Mr F a new device. It said it had to be fitted within seven days of the email 
date. Mr F fitted the device on day eight. So West Bay cancelled the policy. West Bay said 
Mr F owed it £109.59. This was net of the cancellation fee of £50 which it had waived. Mr F 
remained unhappy and complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. The broker, which 
administers the policy on West Bays behalf, began recovery action to get Mr F to pay the 
outstanding sum. This was placed on hold for a while whilst Mr F complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. More recently Mr F has said the recovery company has agreed to hold 
the debt whilst his complaint is finalised by this service.
Our Investigator reviewing the complaint, felt that the cancellation had been reasonable but 
that Mr F had been caused distress and inconvenience by poor service from West Bay. In 
the circumstances he felt it would be fair for Mr F to be compensated by West Bay waiving 
the outstanding amount of £109.59.
Mr F said he was happy with that outcome. West Bay said it didnt think that was fair 
because no error had actually occurred. West Bay said what had happened was just a 
natural consequence of the device installed and that once identified its processes had been 
followed correctly to rectify matters. Our Investigator said he wasnt persuaded that it was 
fair that Mr F had suffered worry and inconvenience in the way that he had. He maintained 
his view that the outstanding sum should be waived in this instance. The complaint was 
passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cancellation
West Bays policy does require the device it supplies to be fitted. West Bay provided a new 
device and gave Mr F seven days to fit it. That became five by the time the device was 
received by Mr F. And the car wasnt available to Mr F in that time. But Mr F didnt tell West 
Bay he wasnt going to be able to fit it in the deadline provided. I think if he had, West Bay 
would have extended that. Because Mr F didnt fit the device within the deadline given, it 
was fair and reasonable of West Bay to cancel the cover. That left Mr F owing West Bay 
£109.59 which it was entitled, due to its reasonable cancellation, to expect him to repay. So 
I dont think West Bay failed Mr F in this respect, including in it having started debt recovery 
activity to obtain payment. 
Speeding
That said I can see that during the term of the policy Mr F was caused upset when West Bay 
contacted him to advise his son had been speeding, with cancellation also being threatened. 
I understand that was distressing for Mr F. With frustration being added too when it 
happened for a second time. I note what West Bay says about the device it provides being 
imperfect technology, and that once the error with the technology was found to be the cause 
of the speeding accusation, it corrected matters. But Mr F was entitled to expect the device 
would work reasonably well, after all his premium is based on the data the box gathers. So 
I think hed have thought it would be reasonably accurate  I dont think hed have foreseen it 
was capable of causing the inaccuracy it did, with that presenting the threat of cancellation. 
Twice. 
In this sort of circumstance Id probably award compensation of around £150. But I note that 
following West Bays cancellation for the device not being fitted correctly, Mr F reasonably 
owed it £159.59. With the £50 cancellation fee which had made up part of that sum, being 
waived, reducing that to £109.59 outstanding. I also note that in response to our 
Investigators view, Mr F seems content to have the amount waived rather than receiving 
money as compensation. So, on this occasion, Im satisfied that requiring West Bay to waive 
the remainder of the amount owed to it following cancellation (£109.59), is fair and 
reasonable compensation.
Putting things right
I require West Bay to waive the sum of £109.59, updating its records to show Mr F owes a 
nil balance, making sure to update the recovery company that nothing is due.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. I require West Bay Insurance Plc to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2023. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman