DRN-3154822
The complaint
 Mr D is unhappy that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) failed to credit his account with a
payment and gave him incorrect information.
What happened
 Mr D sold an item and the buyer used the faster payment system to send the money from 
his bank account to Mr Ds YBS account. The payment didnt arrive, and Mr D tried to find 
out what had happened and called YBS. Mr D was told that YBS couldnt see any payment 
due to him from the buyer and to call back the next day. Mr D waited and again spoke to 
YBS who told him the payment had been returned to the buyer because the relevant details
hadnt been completed during the faster payment process.
Mr D was able to contact the buyer, who re-sent the money to a different account Mr D held
with another bank. Mr D wanted to know what had happened and YBS explained that
because Mr D hadnt given the correct details to the buyer, the payment was rejected and
returned to the sending account. YBS told Mr D that he hadnt included his ten-digit building
society number in the reference box of the faster payment. They also said that other boxes
didnt have the necessary details in them for them to accurately identify the account to be
credited.
Mr D disagreed with the information he was given and had a screenshot of the outgoing
faster payment from the buyer, which showed different information to that which YBS had on
their system. Mr D questioned why he needed the ten-digit number when hed successfully
sent faster payments to his wifes YBS account before without the ten-digit reference. YBS
explained that if they could identify the account holder, using the other information then they
could be confident that the payment was going to the correct account, which was the case
when Mr D sent payments to his wifes account.
During a conversation with a call handler, Mr D was told the reason that the ten-digit
reference was needed was because other YBS customers could have the same eight-digit
account number as him and the extra two digits helped to identify the correct account holder.
Mr D didnt think this was correct and made a complaint to YBS about how theyd handled
the transfer.
YBS investigated Mr Ds complaint and explained to him that the details needed for a faster
payment werent contained in the one made by his buyer and their website had the
necessary information for a successful faster payment to be made. Mr D was unhappy with
YBSs response and brought his complaint to our service for an independent review.
It was looked at by one of our investigators who thought YBS acted in accordance with the
terms and conditions of the agreement and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with
the investigators outcome and still thought YBS had been inconsistent with what theyd told
him. Mr D continued to believe that YBS had been given the correct details when the faster
payment was made and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. I issued a provisional 
decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I understand that some of Mr Ds concerns are about YBSs systems and procedures
more widely  our role is to look at the individual circumstances of the complaints that are
referred to us and reach a decision on whats fair and reasonable here.
YBS set out what information is required to make a faster payment:
Account Name (YBS account holders name)
Sort Code
Bank Account Number (first eight digits of the YBS account number)
Reference or Roll number (full ten-digits of the YBS account number)
The full ten-digit number wasnt present on the faster payment set up by the buyer and
theres some disagreement about whether the correct name was input on the payment as
well. Ive reviewed both the YBS data and the screenshot supplied by Mr D that came from
the buyer.
The YBS data appears to be an extract from the information contained in the faster payment
and does show the use of names which dont comply with the requirements set out above.
The screenshot from the buyer is a summary of the information sent to YBS after it was
actioned and its uncertain how this information was originally categorised on the senders
bank. Mr D explained that hed given the correct details to the buyer and they were
contained in the faster payment. Whilst Im sure Mr D gave what he thought were the correct
details to the sender, he didnt carry out the payment himself, or fill in the information on the
senders bank.
From the information that was extracted from the incoming faster payment, its apparent that
the YBS system rejected it because of incomplete information, including the missing ten-digit
reference number. Because the YBS system couldnt identify the correct account, in part due
to the other information supplied during the transfer, I think YBS acted reasonably when they
returned the payment to the sending account.
Mr D has argued that hes able to send money to his wifes account without the use of the
ten-digit reference number. YBS explained that if the other details are correct, including the
proper account name, they can be confident that the money can be credited to the correct
account. That wasnt the case here, because YBS couldnt identify the correct account from
the other information sent with the faster payment.
I asked YBS why they didnt identify the payment when Mr D first called them and theyve
told me that the payment wasnt visible in their system at that point, so they couldnt have
done anything about it. By the time Mr D called back, YBS systems had already rejected the
payment. So, I dont think that YBS could have done any more when Mr D first called.
Because of the incomplete data, YBS rejected the payment which was no doubt frustrating
to Mr D. This appeared to be system generated and whilst it would have been preferable for
YBS to alert Mr D to the incoming payment, I dont think it was practical for YBS to look for
one particular payment out of all the incoming payments they receive.
YBS do have to be satisfied that incoming payments are paid into the correct account and
this is exactly what Id expect them to do. Theyve set out what information is needed for a
successful faster payment and also what happens if this information isnt present. YBS
followed their own procedures by returning the payment and I dont think it would have beenreasonable for them to depart from their own processes here. Fortunately for Mr D, the buyer
resent the money to another account, so Mr D hasnt lost out financially on the sale of his
item. Because I think that YBS acted reasonably when they returned the payment, it follows
that I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Account identification
During one of the calls Mr D had with YBS, he was trying to understand what had happened
and why he needed to use the ten-digit reference number. He was told this was required
because other YBS customers could have the same eight-digit account number as himself
and the ten-digits ensured the payment got to the correct account. Mr D didnt think this was
correct and having made further enquiries with YBS, they confirmed that only joint account
holders have the same account number, which isnt the case here. So, I think that Mr D was
misled when he was told this.
From reading Mr Ds statements about this, he was clearly frustrated with YBSs answer,
and I can understand why. I dont think the answer Mr D was given was for any other reason
than the call handler trying to explain the situation, even though it was incorrect. It did lead to
Mr Ds continuing frustration with YBS, who should pay Mr D £100 for the misleading
information they gave him.
I note that Mr D wanted any award to go to a charity. But, as hes complaining on his own
behalf, any award will be paid to him, and of course, hes then free to use the money as he
wishes.
I invited Mr D and YBS to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. YBS didnt respond and Mr B didnt have anything 
further to add about his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
  YBS are instructed to pay Mr D £100 for the misleading information they gave him.
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Yorkshire Building Society, and 
theyre instructed to pay Mr D £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman