DRN-2242110
The complaint
 Mrs. F complains that the financial compensation Lex Auto Lease Limited (Lex Auto Lease) 
offered her on early termination of her hire agreement is insufficient. She would like it 
increased.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on the reasons for my decision  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I largely agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the 
following reasons: -
I dont think its reasonable to compensate Mrs. F for sidesteps supplied and fitted by 
the dealership at a cost of £3,300. This cost didnt form part of her finance 
agreement. And she has used and retained them. So, they could be re used or sold 
on.
Mrs. Fs finance agreement included an upfront rental payment of £7,153 which 
reduced the monthly payments over the three-year rental period.  Mrs. F would the 
partial refund of this up-front payment to cover 29 months  the time from when she 
first asked to return the car to the end of the contract - a refund of £5,862.59. I dont 
think that is reasonable as Mrs. F has had use of the car during this time. 
Lex Auto Lease has offered a refund of £3,532.75 to cover the unused portion of the 
initial rental which I think is fair.
I dont think its reasonable to refund two monthly payments when Mrs. Fs car was in 
a garage as during that time she had use of a courtesy car.
I also dont think its reasonable to refund rental payments for March to June 2020 on 
the basis the car should have been collected in March 2020. I think the delay, due to 
the evolving pandemic, wasnt unreasonable. And Mrs. F did have use of the car 
during that time. Also, I understand Mrs. F is considering putting in a separate 
complaint about the collection process. So, I dont think its appropriate for me to 
consider this further in this decision.
Lex Auto Lease has offered to pay £1,200 compensation to recognize the 
inconvenience and loss of enjoyment of the car. I think that is a reasonable amount. I 
dont feel there are any grounds to pay an additional £150 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience as our investigator suggested.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Lex Auto Lease 
Limited should pay Mrs. F: -
£3,532.75 as a partial refund of her initial rental payment with 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement
£1,200 compensation to cover loss of enjoyment of the car and inconvenience 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman