DRN-3723259
The complaint
Mr W complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma Loans accepted 
a loan application in his name from an unknown third party. Satsuma subsequently pursued 
him for the outstanding amount and put a default on his credit file. 
What happened
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld in part. She said that Satsuma didnt do 
anything wrong when it accepted the application and paid the money (£600) into Mr Ws 
account. However, she was satisfied that Mr W had been the victim of fraud and didnt apply 
for the loan because a third-party had obtained his bank card and personal details. The 
investigator had also contacted Mr Ws bank who had confirmed there had been some 
unauthorised transactions which it was refunding to him. When Mr Ws bank made the 
refund the Satsuma loan was a part of those funds. So, the investigator felt Mr W hadnt 
agreed to the terms and conditions of the loan  but because he had benefitted from the 
funds the money should be returned to Satsuma. But Satsuma shouldnt add interest and 
charges to the amount Mr W owed. 
The investigator added that B had caused Mr W inconvenience when he requested a subject 
access request (SAR) which had been confirmed by the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO). So, B should pay Mr W £100. 
Satsuma hasnt responded to our investigators view and the deadline for responses has 
now passed. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
I wrote to Satsuma saying I was minded to agree to the investigators view and for similar 
reasons. But Satsuma hasnt responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint in part. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Im satisfied Satsuma didnt do anything wrong when it accepted the loan here. The fraudster 
was able to obtain Mr Ws personal details and bank card in order to pass the checks that 
Satsuma carried out. But Mr Ws bank has confirmed that his bank account was 
compromised and paid him a refund of some transactions made on his account. And I can 
see from Satsumas notes that a mobile phone provider confirmed Mr W had been the victim 
of fraud on the same date the loan was taken out. So, after considering all the evidence here 
Im not satisfied it was Mr W that applied for the loan. 
The issue here is that when Mr Ws bank made that refund to him the loan funds were also 
refunded and spent. That means that Mr W subsequently benefited from the loan, so I think 
that if Satsuma Loans decide pursue him for that money, this would be fair. 
However, the investigator has correctly pointed out that Mr W never agreed to the terms and 
conditions of the loan. That means he cant be held to the terms of an agreement he didnt 
enter into and so Satsuma Loans cannot ask him to repay any interest and charges or fees 
associated with the loan. As a result, I believe Satsuma Loans should also remove any 
record of the loan and default from Mr Ws credit file. 
The investigator also considered that when an SAR was requested from Satsuma Loans by 
Mr W there was a delay in the request being actioned. The investigator felt £100 would be a 
fair amount to award Mr W for the distress and inconvenience. Satsuma said it doesnt have 
any evidence a SAR was requested by Mr W. But Ive seen a letter from the ICO that 
confirms Mr W made a SAR in February 2020 like he has said. And he didnt receive a 
response until January 2022.
As a result, Im satisfied that £100 would be a fair amount to award Mr W for the 
inconvenience he has been caused. 
Putting things right
Satsuma must remove any record of this loan from Mr Ws credit file. They also cant pursue 
him for more than the principal amount of the loan (£600) which they paid into Mr Ws 
account. 
Satsuma should also pay Mr W £100 for the inconvenience it has caused. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and direct Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as 
Satsuma Loans to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman