DRN-3747125
The complaint
Miss A complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of a claim on her 
motor insurance policy. She isnt happy about the way it settled liability following a claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in detail. 
In summary, Miss A contacted Admiral in February 2022 under her motor insurance policy 
after her son, a named driver (ND) on the policy, was involved in an accident on a 
roundabout. Both parties held the other responsible for the accident. Admiral decided to 
accept liability on behalf of Miss A. She wasnt happy, so she complained to Admiral. 
Admiral reviewed the evidence provided which included dashcam footage from the third-
party vehicle, it said that the third-party vehicle was already in the roundabout and as it was 
a larger vehicle the ND should have left sufficient room for the third party to carry out any 
manoeuvre. So it didnt uphold her complaint. As Miss A remained unhappy, she referred the 
complaint to this service.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. They thought 
Admiral was entitled by the policys terms and conditions to settle the claim as it thought fit 
after reasonably considering the evidence available. They thought it had done this and so 
they didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong.
Miss A replied that she thought the evidence and information provided showed that the third-
party driver should have been considered at fault. Miss A asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint, so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
I can understand that Miss A feels frustrated that Admiral has held the ND responsible for 
the accident when she is very sure that it was caused by the third-party driver. Miss A said 
the third-party driver had been in the wrong lane when entering the roundabout and had then 
veered into the lane without signalling and so collided with the ND. The third-partys insurer 
said the ND had caused the accident.
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Miss A the same as someone else in her position. 
I can see that Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Miss A to 
conduct the investigation, defence and settlement of any claim on your behalf as it sees fit. 
Miss A has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of her claim, whether she 
agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I 
dont find it unusual. Also, insurers are entitled to take a commercial decision about whether 
it is reasonable to contest a third-party claim or better to compromise/admit liability.
Admiral say the Highway Code puts a greater onus on the ND when approaching and using 
a roundabout. The Highway code says you should be alert to other road users already on 
the roundabout, even though they may not be signalling. The highway code also says plenty 
of room should be given to long vehicles as they may use a different course or straddle 
lanes when either approaching or on the roundabout. And as the ND entered the roundabout 
after the third-party vehicle Admiral felt the ND should have left sufficient space for the larger 
third-party vehicle to carry out any manoeuvre in line with the highway code  and because 
the ND didnt it felt this is more likely to have been what caused the incident.
Taking everything into account, I think Admiral handled the claim reasonably by considering 
all the available evidence. And Im not persuaded it was acting unfairly or unreasonably 
when it decided to accept liability for the claim. It considered the dashcam footage and what 
Miss A said, it contacted the third-party insurer and took into account the evidence provided. 
Also, Admiral will have experience of how courts view such matters, and the likelihood of 
success in pursuing a legal case. 
I understand Miss A feels very strongly about this and she will be disappointed with this 
outcome. I know she believes the third party to be at fault for what happened. But, as Ive 
explained, itd be for a court of law to decide liability. What Ive looked at is whether Admiral 
has followed the policy terms and handled the claim in a fair and reasonable way when 
deciding to settle the case, as it has done here. And Im satisfied it has. So, I wont be asking 
Admiral to do anything further in relation to this matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman