complaint
Mr H complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) caused his family inconvenience and 
upset due to repair delays after he made a home insurance claim.
background
Mr H suffered a water leak at his home in March 2018, so he made a claim on his home 
insurance policy. UKI arranged alternative accommodation for Mr H and his family until 
November 2018.
When Mr Hs family returned home, the flooring repairs were still not finished. Mr H says in 
the seven months that followed, there were various delays to the fitting of the carpet and 
laminate. He also says their contents werent returned from storage during this time as it 
didnt make sense for their items to be returned whilst building works were still ongoing.
Mr H says during the seven-month period they were without a lot of their clothes (including 
their winter clothes), bed, sofa, television, dining room table and chairs, and most of their 
kitchen items. Hes explained they had to sleep on a mattress on a floor and use plastic 
chairs, and they couldnt entertain any guests  including Mr Hs elderly father who was 
visiting from abroad, who had to stay with Mr Hs brother instead.
Mr H says if he had known it would take UKI a further seven months to finish the flooring, he 
wouldnt have agreed to move back to the property. He says this would have cost UKI about 
£20,300 in rent.
Mr H raised a complaint with the contractor completing the flooring, and it offered him £400 
for the delays. He made a further complaint to UKI and it offered him an additional £400. In 
its complaint response UKI acknowledged there were several issues with the repairs when 
Mr H returned to his home, which needed to be addressed; and there were then delays 
completing the flooring. UKI said its loss adjusters should have arranged the return of 
furniture when rooms became available, but it didnt do this.
Mr H was unhappy with the amount of compensation offered, so he referred his complaint to 
this service. Mr H explained a reasonable person wouldnt accept £800 in exchange for the 
living conditions they experienced. He thought the compensation should be significantly 
higher. One of our investigators considered the matter, but she thought £800 was fair. 
Because Mr H disagreed, his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Mr H has confirmed hes already received the £800 offered.
DRN-1611842my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
UKI doesnt dispute there were several issues and delays during the seven-month period in 
question. Ive also seen the bedroom furniture could have been returned six months earlier. 
Mr H also complained to UKIs flooring contractor about their lack of furniture, four months 
after his family returned home; but his complaint wasnt passed to UKI. Mr H also says he 
kept UKIs loss adjusters updated with their situation, and I accept what he says. So, Im 
satisfied UKI can reasonably be held responsible for what happened during this period.
However, whilst I dont doubt that being without their main furniture and other belongings for 
seven months would have had an impact on Mr Hs family, and they werent able to fully 
enjoy their home, the lack of furniture and the flooring issues didnt make their property 
uninhabitable. 
Mr H also hasnt told us anything about the situation, or his circumstances, which leads me 
to believe the impact on his family was so significant that further compensation is merited. 
Overall, £800 is in-line with the amount I would have awarded. So, having considered 
matters, Im not persuaded I can reasonably award anything more.
my final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Vince Martin
Ombudsman