DRN-4327242
The complaint
Mr P complains that delays and poor service by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
when reviewing an overdraft extension led to missed loan payments being recorded on his 
credit file. 
What happened
Mr P has a business account with NatWest. Mr P also had a loan with NatWest that was 
collected by direct debit from the business account each month. A payment was due on 11 
April 2022 but wasnt made due to insufficient funds. 
Mr P has explained that he was unaware that the payment due on 11 April 2022 hadnt been 
made and that he wasnt contacted by his relationship manager to provide a warning. On 
11 April 2022 Mr P contacted his relationship manager to request an extension of the 
business overdraft facility. Mr Ps explained that there was a temporary cashflow issue within 
the business which meant it needed access to additional funds. 
A video meeting was completed on 12 April 2022 and NatWest requested information by 
email. Mr P submitted the required information on 29 April 2022. 
The application to increase the overdraft wasnt immediately processed. And NatWest says 
that when the next loan payment was due on 9 May 2022 there was again insufficient funds 
to meet it. As a result, missed payments for the loan were recorded on Mr Ps credit file. 
Mr P has explained that during this time they were looking for remortgage options. But when 
he attempted to complete the process missed payments on Mr Ps credit file meant they 
were unable to proceed. 
The business overdraft extension application was completed in July 2022 and initially 
declined due to the missed loan repayments showing on Mr Ps credit file. The overdraft 
extension was subsequently approved and Mr P complained about the missed loan 
payments recorded on his credit file. 
NatWest issued a final response on 24 October 2022 and upheld Mr Ps complaint, 
accepting there had been avoidable delays in the overdraft application process. NatWest 
agreed to remove the adverse information recorded and refunded late fees applied. NatWest 
also paid Mr P £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr P referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. In his 
submissions, Mr P explained how the missed payments showing on his credit file had 
impacted his ability to secure a new mortgage. Mr P explained that by the time the credit file 
amendments had been made, interest rates had increased substantially. As a result, 
Mr P says mortgage costs are significantly higher over the long term. 
We asked NatWest to provide a copy of its business file and comments on Mr Ps complaint. 
In its submissions, NatWest accepted that there had been some avoidable delays with the 
way the business overdraft application had been handled. But NatWest pointed out that the 
April 2022 loan payment had already been missed on the date Mr P contacted its 
relationship manager to request an overdraft extension. NatWest also said the missed 
payments had impacted the process of completing the overdraft extension application. 
Whilst NatWest agreed to remove the missed payments to settle Mr Ps complaint, it didnt 
agree it was responsible for any losses connected to his mortgage. 
Our investigator thought NatWest had dealt with Mr Ps complaint fairly and didnt ask it to 
take any further action. Mr P asked to appeal and said previous relationship managers had 
contacted him in advance of any payments being missed to provide a warning but that this 
service had been withdrawn without notice. Mr P also said they hadnt received text alerts 
warning them of the loan payments being missed. Mr P added that NatWest was aware in 
April 2022 that he needed to make new arrangements for his mortgage. As Mr P asked to 
appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ps loan statements in addition to the business account statements and can 
see that in April and May 2022 there was insufficient funds available to make the payments 
required. Im satisfied the loan payments werent made as normal. Ive gone on to consider 
whether it was fair for the missed loan payments to be recorded on Mr Ps credit file. 
Mr Ps explained that his previous relationship manager wouldve taken the step of 
contacting him if a loan payment was in danger of being missed. And Mr P has supplied an 
email from his previous relationship manager that confirms this point and that the approach 
at NatWest has changed. Mr Ps previous relationship manager explained NatWests current 
approach is that if a text message had been sent and notice had previously been provided, 
there was no longer a requirement to contact customers. The previous relationship manager 
added that they would personally have contacted Mr P in the situation despite not being 
required to do so by NatWest. 
I appreciate that Mr Ps previous relationship manager said that despite NatWest not 
requiring them to do so, they wouldve contacted him before the loan payments were 
missed. But I think its fair to say that the previous relationship managers comments fall 
outside of the banks policy and requirements for staff. Im satisfied that NatWest is able to 
decide how it operates, including when relationship managers have to contact customers. 
And, as the previous relationship manager confirmed, the policy in April 2022 was that no 
contact was required. As directly contacting loan holders in advance of a missed payment 
isnt a step NatWest requires its staff to take, Im unable to agree the current relationship 
managers lack of direct warning was unreasonable in its own right. 
Mr Ps pointed out that the process changed without notice. But businesses change their 
processes regularly and wont necessarily inform customers each time. Here, the 
requirement under Mr Ps loan terms was for him to make a payment each month on the due 
date. The loan terms dont say that NatWest is obliged to contact Mr P if there is a risk of a payment being missed. Whilst I can understand why Mr P feels NatWest ought to have done 
more, I havent been persuaded it acted unfairly. 
NatWest has added that Mr Ps mobile phone number is registered to receive account 
notifications, including text messages. Ive seen the systems evidence that shows Mr Ps 
mobile number, which matches the one he gave us, is recorded. I understand Mr P doesnt 
recall having received a text message in April or May 2022, but Im satisfied it was most 
likely sent as NatWest claims. 
Ive considered whether it was reasonable for NatWest to record missed payments whilst the 
business overdraft extension request was ongoing. I appreciate Mr Ps view that NatWest 
wouldve been aware they had loan payments due. But I think its fair to say Mr P was also 
aware that the business account had regular outgoings. And whilst there is a relationship 
manager in place, the account is self-managed. That means its ultimately the account 
holders responsibility to ensure the account is able to meet its obligations. Mr P has told us 
there were funds available elsewhere that couldve been used to cover the loan payments. 
Mr P had the option of checking to ensure the business account balance remained within the 
overdraft limit whilst waiting for NatWest to confirm whether the overdraft limit could be 
extended. 
I also think its fair to add that NatWest has provided systems evidence to show that Mr P 
and Mrs P (who is also authorised as a third party to the business account) were able to 
access their online and mobile banking facilities during the period in question. And the 
records show online and mobile banking was accessed both before and after the April and 
May 2022 payments were missed. Im satisfied Mr P was able to access his online banking 
facility that wouldve allowed him to see whether there were sufficient funds available to 
meet the loan payments.
When NatWest responded to Mr Ps complaint it agreed to remove the missed payments. 
But, for the reasons Ive given above, I agree with NatWests view that the arrears were 
reasonably recorded at the time as an accurate picture of how loan payments were made. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but as I havent been persuaded NatWest unfairly record missed 
loan payments as they occurred, I dont agree it would be fair to tell it to compensate him for 
higher mortgage costs hes told us about.
In addition to amending his credit file, NatWest paid Mr P £150 in recognition of the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the way the overdraft extension application was handled. 
There was some confusion and delays and I agree the service provided couldve been better 
at times. In my view, £150 reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mr P and is a fair way 
to resolve his complaint. As Im satisfied NatWest has already taken steps to remove the 
missed payments from Mr Ps credit file and agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc has already agreed a settlement that is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman