DRN-1635758
 
Complaint
Mrs W says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mrs W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1997. Mrs W paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her in case she was off work sick 
or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was well over two decades ago and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
So I think its understandable that neither side still have the original documents from the 
time. Indeed, under data protection rules, Halifax were required to dispose of Mrs Ws data 
rather than hold onto it for too long. Mrs W doesnt remember buying PPI, and I also think 
thats understandable given that buying insurance is not often memorable and this sale was 
particularly long ago. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based 
on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Mrs W into having PPI. 
And I have no evidence which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with their sales process from the time. And this sale was too long ago for me to 
reasonably expect Halifax to be able to produce documents from the time to defend 
themselves now. So I dont think I have a fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax misled 
Mrs W. I think its more likely that they followed a relatively normal sales process, offered her 
PPI, and that she chose it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer remembers 
doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs W, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Halifax if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mrs W, Ive assumed they did. 
That means Halifax had to check the policy was right for her  and from what Ive seen of 
her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mrs W was eligible for 
the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.While Mrs W had some benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of her work 
benefits and offered her significantly more comprehensive cover. I also understand there 
were people who were happy to help Mrs W, but there was always the chance theyd be 
unable to help when needed. And this mortgage was Mrs Ws sole responsibility  I dont 
think it wouldve been suitable for Halifax to recommend that she relied on other people to 
pay it. Its worth bearing in mind that if Mrs W fell behind on her repayments, she couldve 
lost her home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful for her in protecting her 
home and providing some peace of mind. 
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mrs W about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind. But as I explained above, Mrs W wasnt affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for her in case something 
went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. 
And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs W could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put her off 
taking out the cover at the point of sale.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman