DRN-2845879
The complaint
Mr J complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) wrongly refused to consider his legal 
expenses insurance claim. 
IPA use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance and manage claims, so 
any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or 
omissions of such intermediaries. 
What happened
Mr J is employed as a police officer. He made a claim against his employer in relation to 
changes made to his pension and joined the group action brought by solicitors Leigh Day on 
a damages-based agreement on 5 May 2017. 
Mr J has since sought to claim on a legal expenses insurance policy he held through a police 
group insurance scheme, which he says was with IPA until June 2015 when they switched 
providers. He says that the terms and conditions stated that the policy was on a claims 
occurring basis, which meant that IPA should consider his claim.
Mr J says that IPA told him to contact another insurer (LIM) as that was who the cover was 
transferred to in 2015. But the policy with LIM was on a different claims made basis than 
the previous cover held with IPA, and it also didnt cover employment disputes. 
Mr J said to IPA that they should cover his claim because they provided cover until 
June 2015, which covered the original circular regarding the pension changes (issued in 
November 2013), as well as the actual changes made to the pension that came into force on 
1 April 2015. However, IPA said that from the date they ceased providing cover, they would 
no longer consider any new claims. They said the transfer took place with an agreement that 
LIM would take on any further claims made via the Police Federation members policy on a 
claims made basis, so any claims made from June 2015 would need to be submitted to LIM 
regardless of the incident date.
Mr J complained that this was unfair as his policy with IPA was on a claims occurring basis, 
meaning he should still be able to make a claim with them despite the policy being 
transferred to LIM in June 2015.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. She was satisfied that IPA had clearly 
explained why it originally refused to consider his claim, and she also didnt think it wouldve 
been covered by the previous policy with IPA in any event due to an employment disputes 
exclusion relating to Mr Js activities as a police officer. Mr J disagreed, so the matter has 
been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
IPA have explained that they are no longer the provider of Mr Js police group insurance 
scheme as this was transferred over to LIM on a claims made basis on 1 June 2015, 
meaning that any claims submitted after that date would need to be submitted to LIM to 
consider (irrespective of the incident date due to the claims made nature of the policy). IPA 
have also said they were the provider for retired officers up until 2017, but that this was also 
subsequently transferred to another provider. The insurer has explained that the only active 
policy they have for Mr Js Police Federation that it did provide the legal expenses cover for 
was a travel insurance policy. But given that Mr Js claim concerns employment matters, the 
travel policy would not be relevant to his claim. 
I can see that IPA explained all of this to Mr J in emails dated 30 July 2020 and 3 August 
2020. But I appreciate that Mr J feels he has been treated unfairly, because he originally had 
a claims occurring policy with IPA that covered employment disputes, which subsequently 
transferred to a claims made policy with LIM that seemingly now doesnt consider 
employment disputes. 
The nature of a claims occurring policy means that claims will be covered that occur during 
the period of insurance  irrespective of when the claim is made. And I can see why Mr J 
thinks that IPA should have considered his claim, as the insured incident for his employment 
dispute seemingly fell within his period of cover with the insurer before the policy was 
transferred over to LIM. So, assuming for a moment that IPA were wrong not to consider his 
claim, and for the sake of argument, I have considered whether his claim would have likely 
been covered under the previous policy terms and conditions.
Mr J has provided a copy of the relevant terms and conditions from January 2014 (Police 
Officers Legal Assistance) when his policy was underwritten by IPA. I can see that legal 
expenses cover was available for employment disputes, but there were several exclusions 
applicable to this cover, including:
What is not insured:
Claims
a) For anything to do with Your activities as a police officer
In their final response, IPA explained that they wouldnt have covered Mr Js claim because it 
had arisen in relation to a dispute regarding his employment status, and his rights in relation 
to his Police pension. And having considered this carefully, I agree that IPA would have 
been justified in declining the claim on this basis, meaning it wouldnt have been covered 
under the policy. 
The term is clear that there is no cover for a dispute relating to Mr Js activities as a police 
officer. IPA says there is a reason for this, because the insurance was part of a package for 
police officers. They pay a subscription, which covers the cost of representation by the 
Police Federation for members in disputes they may have arising from their service as a 
police officer and conditions of that service  in other words, those that would be termed 
employment disputes if they were employees rather than office-holders. The legal 
expenses cover was designed to provide some additional cover for other things that werent 
related to their work, as well as covering employment disputes for their family.
I appreciate that Mr J does not consider that his dispute is anything to do with his activities 
as a police officer. But his dispute concerns his police pension. That is something he is 
entitled to as a result of being a police officer. If he were not a police officer, this dispute 
would not have arisen, so the claim is therefore to do with his activities as a police officer. So 
Im satisfied it would have been fairly excluded from cover under the policy.Therefore, even if IPA were wrong not to consider the claim initially, I dont consider this 
omission to have ultimately prejudiced Mr Js position or caused him any loss, because Im 
not persuaded his claim wouldve been covered in any event. 
I appreciate that some policies will provide legal expenses cover for the police pensions 
dispute, (which Mr J has alluded to, as he knows of some colleagues that have had their 
expenses covered by their insurance). But Im afraid it is all dependent on the individual 
terms and conditions of the insurance policy, as there are many variations which may be 
more generous in their scope of cover. But having considered the terms and conditions of 
Mr Js policy, Im satisfied his dispute would have been excluded.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr J. But in the circumstances, I wont be 
directing IPA to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman