DRN-2701074
The complaint
Mr B complains about Allay Claims Ltd and the fees they are charging him for successful 
payment protection insurance (PPI) claims he says he didnt authorise them to pursue.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr B signed up for a PPI check through an online website. Mr B thought this 
was for a PPI check only. To sign up for this check, Mr B had to provide personal details, the 
names of the lenders he wanted to check, and complete an online letter of authority (LOA).
This LOA authorised Allay to submit a PPI check on Mr Bs behalf. Allay did so, and Lenders 
C and B responded to this check confirming Mr B held PPI on accounts with them. Allay then 
proceeding to submit a claim on Mr Bs behalf. Both claims were successful in early 2020 
and Allay invoiced Mr B for their settlement fee. But Mr B wasnt happy with this, so he 
raised a complaint.
Mr B was unhappy that Allay were invoicing him for a fee. He recognised he may have 
submitted an online request for a free PPI check, but he didnt agree hes authorised Allay to 
submit a claim on his behalf. He said hed purposely ignored the letters sent by Allay, which 
asked him to wet sign a new LOA. And he didnt think the signature on the LOA Allay used 
was his. So, he didnt think he should be obliged to pay the fees Allay were charging him.
Allay didnt agree. They explained when Mr B signed the electronic LOA to complete the free 
PPI check, he agreed to the terms and conditions of the agreement. And this agreement 
explaining they would submit a claim if PPI was identified. They explained the terms and 
conditions gave Mr B 14 days to cancel the agreement, once hed been notified PPI had 
been found. And they didnt think Mr B had done this. So, they felt they had submitted the 
claims fairly and Mr B had received a PPI refund from the work theyd completed. So, they 
thought they were fair to invoice Mr B for their fees, in line with the terms of the agreement. 
Mr B remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought, on the balance 
of probability, Mr B did sign up to Allay through the online website. And although she 
recognised he may have thought this was for a PPI check only, she thought hed agreed to 
the terms and conditions of the agreement when completing the online LOA. And she 
thought this agreement made it reasonably clear that Allay would continue to submit a claim 
unless Mr B cancelled the agreement within 14 days. And she didnt think he did this. 
She recognised Allay sent Mr B letter asking for a wet signature and that Mr B didnt return 
these on purpose. But shed seen Lenders B and C had accepted the electronic signature 
and offered a refund on this basis. And she thought Allay completed the work to secure this. 
So, she thought Allay were fair to invoice Mr B for their settlement fee. She also recognised 
Mr Bs concerns about the signature, but she explained she wouldnt expect this to be the 
same as his wet signature as it was completed online. And she explained we dont look into 
the validity of signatures with our service. So, she didnt think Allay needed to do anything 
more.
Mr B didnt agree. He maintained his view that by not returning the LOAs Allay sent, he was 
purposefully not providing authorisation for them to continue. And he didnt think it was fair 
for Allay to proceed without a wet signature. He explained hed be suffering with his mental 
health due which had impacted the way he had dealt with his financial situation and wanted 
this to be considered. As Mr B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr B. I dont doubt Mr B 
thought he was signing up for a free PPI check. Or that by not responding the Allays 
communication, he thought he was preventing them from submitting his claims any further. 
So, when he received an invoice from Allay for their fees, I can understand why Mr B would 
be both worried and upset. But for me to say Allay should waive these fees, Id need to be 
satisfied they had done something wrong. So, Id need to see that Allay didnt have the 
necessary authorisation to pursue claims on Mr Bs behalf. If they did, Id then need to be 
satisfied that by invoicing Mr B for their fees, they failed to act in line with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement Mr B entered into. Or if they did act in line with these, that it was 
unfair for them to do so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first thought about whether Allay had authorisation to submit a claim on Mr Bs behalf. 
Mr B has accepted he may have signed up to a free PPI check online. Allay have confirmed 
this is how they received the details of Mr Bs claim and the enquiry was received from an IP 
address in the area of Mr Bs home. Ive seen the LOAs which provide Mr Bs personal 
information including date of birth and previous addresses. I think this is relatively specific, 
detailed information Id only expect to come from Mr B or those close to him. So, on the 
balance of probability, I think its like Mr B himself submitted this enquiry.
Im aware Mr B has disputed the signature on the LOA. But this was submitted electronically. 
So, I wouldnt expect this signature to be the same as his wet signature. And after 
considering Mr Bs testimony, where hes explained he didnt provide a wet signature when 
Allay asked him to, I think its reasonable for me to assume it was Mr B who signed this LOA. 
If he hadnt, I wouldve expected Mr B to query with Allay how they received his information. 
But he didnt. Instead, Mr B has said he didnt return any further forms as he assumed the 
fee would be too much for him to pay. So, I think Mr B was aware Allay were submitted a 
PPI check on his behalf, with his authorisation to do so.
So, as I think Mr B signed the electronic LOA, Ive considered what this signature reasonably 
authorised Allay to do. The LOA clearly says that by signing it, Mr B agreed to be bound by 
the terms of engagement which were overleaf. If Mr B hadnt seen these terms of 
engagement, I wouldnt have expected Mr B to sign the LOA. So, Ive assumed that Mr B 
has.
And I think the terms of engagement make it reasonably clear that if PPI was located from 
the PPI check, Allay would continue to submit a claim on Mr Bs behalf. And directly 
underneath this, the terms explain Mr B had 14 days from the day Allay submitted the claims 
to cancel the agreement, free of charge. Ive seen from Allays system notes they made Mr B aware in December 2019 that PPI had been located, and claims had been submitted. And 
Ive seen no evidence to show Mr B contacted Allay to cancel the agreement. Mr B himself 
has said he didnt do this, and he thought not returning the documentation Allay sent him 
was enough to cancel it. But I dont think thats the case.
While I understand why Mr B would assume that by not returning a LOA with a wet signature 
Allay wouldnt be able to proceed, that course of action didnt follow the cancellation process 
set out in the terms of engagement he agreed to. And on this occasion, both lenders 
accepted the LOA Allay provided, with the electronic signature. Most lenders accept this but 
there are occasions where they dont. Because of this, I dont think Allay acted unfairly by 
attempting to obtain a LOA with a wet signature as well. And I dont think this was an attempt 
to intentionally mislead Mr B, or is evidence that Allay shouldnt have continued with the 
claim.
So, I think that Allay acted in line with the terms of the agreement by progressing Mr Bs 
claim. And from what Ive seen, I think they acted fairly when doing so. Ive seen the final 
response letters sent by both Lenders C and B, which were forwarded to Allay. I think this 
shows Lender B and C recognising Allay as Mr Bs representative and confirms the refunds 
Mr B received were a result of the work Allay did. Because of this, I think Allay have acted 
reasonably when invoicing Mr B for their settlement fee to recognise the work they 
completed. Because of this, I dont think Allay need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for. And I recognise this may impact his 
mental health which he is struggling with at the moment. I want to reassure Mr B Ive 
considered the seriousness of this. But I can only direct Allay to do something to rectify Mr 
Bs situation if I think they did something wrong. And I dont think they did in this situation.
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Allay Claims Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman