DRN-3142688
Complaint
Miss B has complained about an overdraft and subsequent limit increase Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds) provided to her. She says the overdraft and subsequent limit increase was 
unaffordable and shouldnt have been provided to her.
  
Background and my provisional decision of 18 October 2021
Lloyds initially provided Miss B with an overdraft with a limit of £200 in December 2017.  
Miss Bs overdraft limit was increased to £450 in June 2018.  
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss B and Lloyds had told us. And she thought 
Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss B unfairly. So she didnt recommend that 
Miss Bs complaint be upheld. Miss B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint.
On 18 October 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on           
Miss Bs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that I used this approach to help me decide 
Miss Bs complaint.
I then went on to explain that essentially Lloyds needed to make sure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, what this meant was Lloyds needed to carry out proportionate 
checks to be able to understand whether Miss B could afford to repay before advancing any 
credit. Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders 
checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be 
less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in 
the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lloyds said it agreed to Miss Bs initial overdraft application and her limit increase after it 
obtained information on her income and expenditure and carried out a credit search. On the 
other hand, Miss B said the overdraft was unaffordable.
I carefully thought about what Miss B and Lloyds had said. 
I started by saying that Lloyds did ask Miss B about her income and expenditure before 
providing the overdraft and limit increase. And the information provided did suggest that 
what was being advanced was affordable. However, I was mindful that Lloyds had said that 
it credit checked Miss B and the credit check would have included details of any short-term 
and long-term lending products Miss B held both with Lloyds and elsewhere.
I didnt know what Lloyds saw as a result of its credit searches. But Miss Bs statements by 
the time of the limit increase to £450 showed that she was paying a significant portion of her 
income to loans from high-cost credit providers. In addition to this I could also see Miss B 
was also clearly borrowing from a number of payday lenders in order to try an repay her 
existing creditors and make ends meet. 
I thought that even if Lloyds searches didnt pick up all of this existing lending, which its final 
response at least suggests it would have, it would have at least picked up that Miss Bs 
outgoings already exceeded her income. 
Therefore, while the limit increase was relatively modest, I was satisfied that Lloyds 
nonetheless ought to have realised Miss B was already in financial difficulty. And, in these 
circumstances, not only should Lloyds have declined Miss Bs application for a limit increase 
but it should have taken steps to withdraw the overdraft completely.  
Miss B ended up paying additional interest as a result of Lloyds failing to realise that she 
was in financial difficulty. So it was my intention to issue a final decision which found that 
Miss B lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong and that it needed to put things right.
Lloyds response to my provisional decision   
Lloyds confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision and that it didnt have anything 
further for me to think about.
Miss Bs response to my provisional decision
Miss B confirmed that she had received my provisional decision and that she had nothing 
further to add.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their further comments. I can confirm that Ive read and considered 
everything theyve said and provided. 
My provisional decision set out why I was intending to partially uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
And as neither party has provided anything further or challenged my findings, Ive not been 
persuaded to alter my conclusions on this matter. 
Overall having considered the responses to my provisional decision, Im still partially 
upholding Miss Bs complaint. 
  
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Miss B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Bs complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Bs overdraft balance to ensure that from June 2018 all interest, 
fees and charges are refunded. I understand that Lloyds froze the charges on 
some occasions after Miss B got in contact to notify it of her difficulties, so it 
should also reflect this in any reworked balance; andAND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Miss B to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If Lloyds considers it appropriate to record negative information on      
Miss Bs credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started 
the process of taking corrective action on the account from June 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information it has recorded from Miss Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give    
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Since my provisional decision, Lloyds has confirmed that it no longer owns the debt accrued 
on Miss Bs account. So Lloyds will need to either buy the account back from the third-party 
and make the necessary adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in order for it to make 
the necessary adjustments, or pay Miss B an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this 
direction.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained and in my provisional decision of 18 October 2021, Im 
partially upholding Miss Bs complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should put things right in the way 
Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman