DRN-3798416
The complaint
Ms H complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost to an investment 
scam. Miss H is represented by a third party in bringing this complaint. 
But for ease of reading, Ill refer to any submission and comments it has made as being 
made by Ms H herself.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 26 October 2022. Ive copied the content of 
that document below:
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that in August 2020, Ms H began communicating with 
an individual claiming to be an investment broker, after being recommended the firm by her 
father. Unfortunately, unbeknown to Ms H at the time, the individual was in fact a fraudster. 
Ms H was initially investing with money her father had deposited into the account previously, 
but as the account appeared to be profiting, the fraudster suggested Ms H invest more to 
increase these profits. On this basis Ms H set up a cryptocurrency account and transferred 
£5,200 in from her Monzo account to convert to Bitcoin. She then transferred the funds on to 
what she believed was the brokers platform, the fraudster guiding her on the process using 
remote access to her computer.
When the fraudster asked Ms H to deposit a further £17,000, she became suspicious and 
asked to make an account withdrawal. However, after failing to receive her funds, Ms H 
realised shed been the victim of a scam and contacted Monzo to raise a claim.
Monzo declined Ms Hs claim to reimburse the payment shed made. It said the payment fell 
outside of the scope of the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code), as the 
funds went to another of her own accounts.
Unhappy with Monzos response, Ms H brought the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She didnt think the faster payment 
Ms H made was so unusual for her account that Monzo ought to have intervened before 
allowing it to be processed. Ms H disagreed. In summary, she said:
She was not in control of the account she transferred funds to as she was being 
manipulated and the account activity was being controlled remotely. 
Monzo ought to have taken more action to protect her from the scam.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about the Lending 
Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which Monzo hasnt signed 
up to, but has agreed to act in the spirit of. Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that 
a firm should reimburse a customer who is the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) 
scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the circumstances for the payment Ms H 
made and, in particular, whether Monzo ought to reimburse her under the provisions of the 
Code.
But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. The CRM Code only 
covers APP scam payments when the funds are being transferred to another person and not 
to a consumers own account. In this case, Ms H sent the money to a cryptocurrency wallet 
in her own name, that she had set up. While it seems the fraudster also had some control 
over, or access to this wallet, Ms H has confirmed she could also access this account  so I 
dont think Monzo is responsible for reimbursing Ms H because of any obligation under the 
CRM Code. Ive therefore considered whether Monzo should reimburse Ms H under any of 
its other obligations.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. Ms H accepts she willingly made the 
faster payment herself. This means that at the time she sent the money, she authorised the 
payment and wanted it to be made. Although she did not intend for the money to go to a 
fraudster, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 which apply to the payment she 
made, and the general terms and conditions of bank accounts, Ms H is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance.
But, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, any relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive therefore looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, being; should Monzo 
have recognised Ms Hs payment as being suspicious and intervened to try and mitigate the 
risk of her falling victim to financial harm from fraud.
Having considered this fraudulent payment against Ms Hs usual account activity, I think the 
payment was unusual enough that Monzo ought to have intervened before processing it. I 
say that because from reviewing her statements for the year prior to the scam, I can see 
there were around seven transfers out of Ms Hs account that were higher than £1,000 in 
value (only one of these being higher than the fraudulent payment). However, five of these 
transfers moved funds to another pot Ms H held with Monzo. Only two of the payments 
were where funds actually left Ms Hs Monzo account and these were both for £1,200 or under. Therefore I think an external transfer of £5,200 to a new payee was out of character 
for Ms H.
I appreciate the transfer was being made to an account in Ms Hs own name, but as 
Confirmation of Payee wasnt in use by the beneficiary bank, this wouldnt have been 
confirmed by Monzo when the payment was made. In any event, its now widely known by 
banks that fraudsters will arrange for payments to be sent to new accounts set up in 
customers names, before directing the money on - so I dont think this alone was sufficient 
for Monzo to not have intervened on this payment.
Had Monzo contacted Ms H prior to releasing the payment, I think there were sufficient red 
flags in what Ms H wouldve told them for it to have had concerns  for example, the request 
to set up a new account which the fraudster also had remote access to, the initial small 
investment to build trust followed by a significant increase and an inability for Ms H to 
personally withdraw perceived profits on her account. Here, Ms H was investing funds she 
had been saving for a house purchase and it was her first time investing. Had Monzo shared 
these further scam hallmarks with her, I think its more likely than not she wouldnt have 
proceeded to make the payment.
Ive also considered whether Ms H should take some liability for her losses, but having 
considered the particular circumstances of the scam I dont think she should. Ms H was 
initially advised about this firm by her father, who had seemingly been using the firm 
successfully for a few weeks by the point she became involved. Ms H has explained she 
checked the FCA register and found no warnings about this firm, had found the brokers 
professional network page online, that the company she was liaising with had a website and 
was calling her most days to trade. Ms H thought she could see her money being invested 
and her profits accumulating so I can understand why, without any advice on how 
investment scams can appear, this appeared very genuine to her.
Overall, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I dont think Ms H acted negligently 
when making the payment towards the scam and so shouldnt be held liable for any losses.
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is to uphold this complaint and for Monzo Bank Ltd to: 
Refund the £5,200 Ms H lost to the scam 
Apply 8% simple interest per year, from the date Ms H made the payment transfer 
until the date of settlement.
Both parties have now had the chance to respond to the provisional decision. Ms H accepted 
the decision. Monzo raised some further points for consideration. To summarise, these were:
A line has to be drawn between blocking payments in preventing scams and blocking 
genuine payments which disrupts its customers access to funds. Monzo considers as 
its more familiar with forms of scams, its in the best position to determine which 
payments should be considered unusual. Monzo also said its easier to identify a 
payment as unusual in hindsight. There was also a two-hour gap between Ms H 
transferring funds from her savings account and then on to the fraudster, rather than 
rapid movements that would appear more suspicious and in line with fraud.
While Confirmation of Payee was not in place for this payment, the payee was still 
listed in Ms Hs name, which is enough for Monzo to consider the payment was being 
made to her own account. In any event, the payment did go to Ms Hs own account 
initially, so this point is irrelevant when considering whether Monzo ought to have 
stopped the payment.
Ms H saw a tailored warning relating to investment scams and was on this page for 
11 minutes before continuing.My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my overall findings on the case havent changed and Im upholding Ms Hs 
complaint on the same grounds. I have thought about what Monzo has said since the 
provisional decision, but it doesnt persuade me to reach a different outcome.
I agree Monzo has to strike a fine balance between allowing its customers to access 
their money with as little disruption as possible, while also protecting them from 
financial harm from fraud. While I dont doubt Monzo has systems in place that aim to 
protect its customers, my finding is that in this case, there were clear enough 
indicators that Ms H may have been at risk of financial harm for it to intervene. As I 
explained in my decision, I reviewed Ms Hs statements for the year prior to the 
scam, and the highest external transfer I can see other than this scam payment was 
for £1,200. A £5,200 payment (also to a new payee) is therefore a significant 
increase in usual spending behaviour and something I therefore think ought to have 
been flagged as unusual and out of character by Monzo for additional questioning. I 
dont think the time lapse between funds being moved in from Ms Hs savings pot 
and transferred on again negates from the significance of this payments value in 
comparison to her usual spending.
In relation to Confirmation of Payee, the point I intended to make in my provisional 
decision was that this information couldnt be confirmed by Monzo when Ms H made 
the payment to the fraudster, to satisfy itself that the payment was not being 
maliciously diverted, as is often the case in some types of scam. However, as 
mentioned, even in cases where Confirmation of Payee does confirm the name 
matches, its still a common theme in certain scams, particularly investment scams 
as seen here, for fraudsters to arrange payments to be made to other accounts 
before moving funds on  so this alone shouldnt result in a payment not flagging as 
suspicious, particularly when its a new payee like in this case.
I appreciate Monzo provided Ms H with a warning relevant to investment scams and 
that she reviewed this warning for a significant time period. The warning advised that:
oLegitimate investments will never guarantee profits
oLegitimate investments arent arranged over social media or WhatsApp
oTo check the company is FCA registered
Monzo has acknowledged in its own investigations that Ms H did these checks and 
so may not have been alarmed by this warning. Ms H hasnt stated that she was 
guaranteed any profit, she was introduced to the firm by her father who believes he 
first saw it advertised in a newspaper, and while the firm wasnt on the FCA register, 
Ms H had noted that it also wasnt on its list of problematic traders which reassured 
her. Overall, in the context of how this scam was presented to Ms H and the addition 
of her father having already fallen victim to the scam and providing assurances, I 
dont think the actions Ms H took in light of this warning were unreasonable.
For these reasons I remain of the view that Monzo should be held liable for Ms Hs losses, 
as set out in my provisional decision.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Hs complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd. I require Monzo 
Bank Ltd to:
Refund the £5,200 Ms H lost to the scam 
Apply 8% simple interest per year, from the date Ms H made the payment transfer 
until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman