DRN-3732733
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H have complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) have 
unfairly declined a claim for theft under their home insurance policy.
I will normally only refer to Mr H, as he dealt with the claim and complaint.
What happened
Mr H advertised a computer graphics card for sale on an online marketplace. He agreed that 
a buyer could come to his home to buy the card. When the buyer arrived, he agreed to buy 
the card and Mr H put his bank details into the buyers mobile banking app. The buyer then 
showed Mr H a screen showing he had transferred the money. However, it didnt arrive in Mr 
Hs bank account. The buyer showed Mr H a webpage that said it could take up to two hours 
for a transfer to arrive. The buyer said he needed to leave because he had an hours drive 
home. He provided Mr H with a screenshot of the payment confirmation and showed an 
online statement that indicated his balance had reduced by the amount of the transfer. The 
buyer also said Mr H had his mobile number and could take photos of his car and vehicle 
registration. The buyer left. When Mr H checked his bank account 30 minutes later the 
money still hadnt arrived. So, Mr H checked the online marketplace and the buyer had 
deleted his profile and also deleted the transaction screenshot from a messaging app.
Mr H reported it to the police and then contacted Admiral to make a claim for theft. Admiral 
replied to say it had updated its records to show an incident had occurred, but no claim had 
been registered. Mr H then phoned Admiral and was told his claim had been rejected 
because of an exclusion on the policy.
Mr H complained to Admiral, as he said the initial rejection of his claim was unclear, he 
thought the claim should be covered and he also said he had been mis-sold the policy. 
When Admiral replied, it said Mr H should have received a detailed response explaining why 
his claim had been declined. It offered £25 compensation. However, it said that due to an 
exclusion in the policy, the theft claim wasnt covered. It also said the policy wording was 
clear about deception, so the policy wasnt mis-sold.
When Mr H complained to this service, our investigator upheld it. She said the exclusion 
referred to whether someone was lawfully on the premises. Based on what had happened, 
she said the buyer wasnt lawfully on the premises. So, she said Admiral should reconsider 
the claim without applying the exclusion.
As Admiral didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 5 September 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Admiral accepts that it didnt properly explain to Mr H why it had declined the claim. When it 
replied to the complaint, it explained why it had declined it by saying:
 the policy booklet advises the exclusion:
 Theft and attempted theft
 Loss or damage caused by you or your family, domestic staff, lodgers, paying guests, 
tenants or any other person lawfully in your home, including through a dedicated home-
sharing website, unless force and violence was used to enter your home.
As you advised that you were a victim of a deception and were scammed, the theft is 
excluded from your policy as shown above.
The exclusion Admiral referred to was about whether someone was lawfully on the 
premises. Whether someone is lawfully on the premises can be a relevant factor in a claim 
that involves deception, but this part of the policy isnt an exclusion for deception, despite 
Admiral seemingly saying that it is. It is, as the wording of the exclusion said, about whether 
someone is lawfully on the premises.
When Admiral responded to our investigators view, the arguments it made were about 
whether Mr H had taken reasonable steps to prevent deception taking place. In essence, this 
was that at each step of the transaction, Mr H could have done more to check that the buyer, 
and the transaction, was genuine. Those reasons arent about whether someone was 
lawfully on the premises.
In my view, Admiral hasnt dealt with the claim or the complaint well. Having looked at the 
circumstances of what happened, I think Admiral incorrectly applied the exclusion for 
someone being lawfully on the premises, as it wasnt relevant to what happened. As a result, 
I currently intend to say that Admiral should reconsider the claim without applying the 
exclusion for when someone is lawfully on the premises. Having done so, if Admiral settles 
the claim and pays a cash settlement, I also currently intend to say that it must pay interest 
on that amount because Mr H lost use of that money.
I also currently intend to say that Admiral should pay a total of £200 compensation, which 
includes the £25 previously offered, because of it how it dealt with the claim. Even when it 
acknowledged it hadnt properly explained why the claim had been declined, it still didnt 
appropriately assess the claim. I think this will have added to Mr Hs concern about how the 
claim was dealt with and whether it had been fairly considered.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 3 October 2022.
Mr H said my provisional decision was the first time he had been made aware that Admiral 
had questioned whether he had taken reasonable steps to ensure the buyer was genuine. 
Mr H confirmed again the steps he had taken to check the transfer of funds and again said 
he had taken a photo of the car registration plate. He said the person had obviously 
anticipated him taking those reasonable steps and mitigated them in an attempt to deceive. 
He said this supported that he hadnt been remiss in his responsibilities.
Admiral replied and repeated the points it had previously made about the steps it thought Mr 
H should have taken, including that Mr H should have checked he had the funds in his 
account from the purchaser before allowing the person to leave, he could have checked the 
car registration plate on the government website and he didnt seem to have the buyers 
phone number. Admiral disagreed that the claim and the complaint hadnt been handled 
correctly. Admiral said Mr H should have carried out due diligence. It questioned what would 
stop someone reporting they had been a victim of fraud or theft and then not providing any 
proof.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. I had already considered the points Admiral had previously made, some 
of which I note appear to be incorrect. For example, from what I could see, Mr H did have 
the persons phone number and provided this to Admiral when he first opened the claim. 
Looking at the car details on the government website, these are very brief but appear to 
match Mr Hs description. However, these issues werent the basis on which I made my 
decision.
The issue is that the exclusion Admiral applied wasnt relevant to the circumstances of the 
claim. Admiral has applied an exclusion about whether someone was lawfully on the 
premises, but the evidence it has relied on to show it was reasonable to apply it are about 
the steps it says Mr H failed to take to ensure the transaction was genuine. I am not, as 
Admiral seems to suggest, saying that a policyholder should be able to make a claim for 
fraud without any supporting evidence. In Mr Hs case, it doesnt actually seem to be in 
dispute that the loss was due to fraud. But Admiral can only fairly apply an exclusion in order 
to decline a claim where it is relevant to the circumstances. Admirals response to my 
provisional decision doesnt persuade me that the exclusion was relevant to the claim or that 
it was fair to apply it.
Putting things right
Admiral should reconsider the claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions, pay 
interest on any cash settlement and pay a total of £200 compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
Reconsider the claim subject to the other terms and conditions in the policy.
Pay interest on any cash settlement from the date on which the claim was first made to 
the date on which the payment is made, if it settles the claim.
Pay Mr H and Mrs H £200 compensation because of how it dealt with the claim, which 
includes the £25 it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman