DRN-1910521
The complaint
Mrs and Mr F complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) gave them incorrect 
information when they discussed how they could secure the level of mortgage borrowing 
they required. As a result, Mr F says he incurred a tax charge of nearly £3,000.
In order to put matters right Mr F wants NatWest to compensate him for the tax charge he 
incurred.
What happened
Mrs and Mr F wanted to move home and discussed their borrowing requirements with 
NatWest. Mr F had recently become self-employed. He says that NatWest told him that his 
income, for mortgage purposes, would be calculated based on his average income taken 
from his last two years income tax statements. 
Mr F says he was told that if he couldnt provide evidence that his income was sufficient to 
support the level of mortgage borrowing he required, his application couldnt be submitted for 
underwriting.
As Mr Fs income wasnt sufficient to meet NatWests lending criteria for the amount of 
mortgage borrowing he required, he says he felt he had no choice but to increase his taxable 
earnings by paying himself a dividend from his business in order to better meet NatWests 
affordability requirements.
After Mrs and Mr Fs mortgage application had been submitted the underwriter considering 
the application spoke to Mr F. During their discussions the underwriter told Mr F that his 
companys profits could be used to assess his income for lending purposes, rather than his 
personal tax returns.
Mr F complained to NatWest. He said that as a result of the incorrect information he had 
been given by branch staff he had paid himself a dividend and incurred a tax charge of 
nearly £3,000 on the dividend payment. 
NatWest said it hadnt advised or told Mr F to pay himself a dividend to increase his taxable 
earnings. It said it was Mr Fs choice to do so. It did, however, pay Mrs and Mr F £1,000 to 
compensate them for the poor service and delays they had experienced with their mortgage 
application.
Mrs and Mr F were not satisfied with NatWests response and referred their complaint to this 
service. Mr F said he wanted NatWest to refund the £2,925 tax charge he had incurred on 
the dividend he had paid himself in order to increase his taxable earnings.
Our investigator said that having considered Mrs and Mr Fs complaint she didnt think 
NatWest needed to do anymore to put matters right. 
She noted that Mr F had said his complaint was that NatWest had given him incorrect 
information about how his income would be assessed for lending purposes. And, based on 
this incorrect information, he had paid himself a dividend from his business  and incurred a 
tax charge on this. But the underwriter had later said his companys profits could have been 
used to assess his income, rather than his personal tax returns.
Our investigator reviewed NatWests lending policy for self-employed individuals. She noted 
it set out that it would assess affordability based on either:
- last 2 years finalised accounts of the business; or,
- last 2 years Inland Revenue Tax Assessments, plus a review of the bank statements.
She said she had also reviewed emails between Mr F and NatWest branch staff about his 
mortgage requirements. Having done so, she said it was clear that Mrs and Mr Fs mortgage 
application was complex, with several factors that needed to be taken into consideration 
including repaying debts to ensure that the mortgage would be affordable.
As Mr F had acknowledged, she confirmed that there was nothing in any of the information 
she had reviewed that showed or suggested that NatWest had told Mr F he must increase 
his taxable income by paying himself a dividend, in order to secure the level of mortgage 
borrowing required. 
Our investigator said that although Mr F felt he need not have paid himself a dividend in 
order to increase his taxable income, she was of the view that the increase in his taxable 
income meant that the branch staff were able to support the application and submit it for 
underwriting. 
As this was the case, she said she didnt think NatWest branch staff had acted incorrectly or 
given Mr F incorrect information about NatWests lending criteria. And she said she felt the 
£1,000 NatWest had paid Mrs and Mr F for the delays and poor service they received was 
fair and reasonable.
Mrs and Mr F didnt accept our investigators view and asked for their complaint to be 
determined by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mrs and Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
As Mr F set out, the crux of this complaint is that Mr F says NatWest branch staff told him 
that, my income for mortgage purposes would be calculated as the average of income 
from my last two tax returns. I was further told that if I could not provide evidence to support 
the correct level of income my application could not proceed and he would not be able to 
send the application to underwriting leaving me with no other option but to pay a dividend 
from my Company to increase my taxable personal earnings to meet the threshold as set by 
NatWests requirements.
But Mr F says that when he subsequently discussed the mortgage application with 
NatWests underwriter, . it became apparent that the underwriters actually consider 
Company profits rather than personal tax return amounts and so there was actually no need 
to pay the dividend at all and incur the additional tax liability. 
As our investigator explained, NatWests mortgage lending criteria for self-employed 
applicants sets out that it would assess affordability based on either:
- last 2 years finalised accounts of the business; or,- last 2 years Inland Revenue Tax Assessments, plus a review of the bank statements.
As Mr F had only recently become self-employed, he wasnt able to provide finalised 
accounts for the previous two years. He therefore chose to increase his taxable earnings by 
paying himself a dividend of £9,000, in order to increase the likelihood that NatWest would 
agree the level of borrowing he and Mrs F required.
Mr F accepts that NatWest didnt tell him to pay himself a dividend in order to increase his 
taxable income  in order to better meet its affordability criteria. He says the adviser he 
spoke to was at pains to explain that in paying the dividend it was not a guarantee that the 
mortgage would be approved. I understood that. I understood that in paying the dividend it 
simply allowed the application to be submitted and could still be declined at underwriting. 
However, the crux is that [the advisers] advice was incorrect and I shouldn't have needed to 
pay the dividend, simply just get my Company accounts signed-off (which I did anyway 
thankfully) and the underwriter would use those accounts to net-up profits for the year as a 
basis for earnings.
Therefore, my loss due NatWest's incorrect advice on their own earnings definition has 
caused me a loss of £2,925 being the income tax liability I have incurred.
In order to clarify this matter, I asked NatWest whether Mrs and Mr Fs mortgage application 
could have been submitted by the mortgage adviser to NatWests underwriters using 
information about Mr Fs companys accounts and a lower income shown in his tax returns 
for the past two years. I also asked it whether Mrs and Mr F would have been permitted to 
apply for the level of borrowing they required if Mr F had provided two years tax returns with 
a lower income (so less the additional £9,000 dividend Mr F chose to pay himself). 
NatWest responded to say that as its branch staff had discussed with Mr F at the time,  
we would need to see a certain level of drawings on his ltd company account, backed up by 
his HMRC tax returns. (The level of income we key into the affordability checker would need 
to be evidenced from his drawings/dividends on his ltd company account and backed up by 
his HMRC tax returns),
And it said:
I can confirm that we could not have submitted his case without the minimum level of 
drawings and dividends evident on his company account. This was his first year trading 
since leaving employment.
It is always difficult for lenders to assess whether borrowing will be affordable when the 
customer is newly self-employed. As Mrs and Mr F may be aware, the industry regulator 
requires that any lending agreed is affordable, both at the time the loan is agreed and for the 
foreseeable future. 
I appreciate that the underwriter told Mr F that NatWest could use his company accounts to 
assess the affordability of the mortgage, but I dont think that the branch staff could 
reasonably have been expected to know what discretion the underwriters might use when 
assessing affordability. And as NatWest has again confirmed, the branch staff would not 
have been permitted to submit the mortgage application without the minimum level of 
drawings and dividends evident on his company account.
I understand that Mrs and Mr Fs mortgage application was outside NatWests lending 
criteria and, from the information that this service has been provided with, it is clear that 
there were several factors that needed to be considered by its underwriters before it could 
make a decision on whether it was willing to agree the level of mortgage borrowing Mr and 
Mrs F required. It appears it was only when a detailed review of the application had been carried out by 
NatWests underwriters that it was suggested the affordability of the mortgage could be 
assessed using criteria NatWest would normally only apply to mortgage applications it 
received through its intermediaries channel. 
In view of this, I cant reasonably find that the branch staff gave Mrs and Mr F incorrect 
information. Nor do I think it would be reasonable to say that the branch staff should have 
known that the underwriter would be willing to assess the affordability of the mortgage 
application using criteria normally only applied to mortgage applications received through its 
intermediaries channel.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mrs and Mr F were hoping for but having 
carefully considered this matter I dont think the NatWest branch staff gave Mrs and Mr F 
incorrect information about its lending criteria.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman