DRN-2805143
The complaint
Miss D has complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) treated her
unfairly when they increased her insurance premiums after becoming aware of an
undisclosed claim.
Miss D is represented by her partner Mr G, but for ease Ill refer to Miss D throughout the
decision.
What happened
In 2018 whilst insured with a different insurance company, Miss D was involved in an
incident where a third party crashed into her. In February 2020, the insurer wrote to Miss D
and explained they hadnt been able to pursue a claim against the third party as they
couldnt be identified.
In March 2020, Miss D took out a motor insurance policy for her car with Skyfire through an
online price comparison site at an annual premium of around £634.
In April 2020, Skyfire wrote to Miss D to say that they were increasing her annual premium
by around £217. They said that theyd carried out some DVLA checks shortly after Miss D
had taken out her policy and that shed answered the question about any fault claims shed
had in the last five years incorrectly.
They said although shed declared the incident on the application form, shed said she
wasnt at fault for it. However, because the third party whod caused the incident couldnt be
found, her insurance company had settled the claim as a fault claim against Miss D as
theyd been unable to recover their costs.
Skyfire said they considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which meant
Miss D would need to pay around £217 more for the policy. They said if theyd known that
the claim in 2018 had been settled as a fault claim, they would have charged Miss D the
higher premium when she took the policy out.
Miss D didnt think this was fair as she felt shed answered the questions honestly based on
what shed been asked. She also didnt agree that the claim should have been settled as
fault against her, so she made a complaint.
Skyfire didnt uphold the complaint. They explained that as Miss D had disputed who was at
fault for the claim in 2018, theyd checked this on the insurance database which showed that
as the insurer couldnt recover costs it had been settled as a fault claim. They explained that
they didnt feel this was deliberate, but they had to price the policy accordingly.
They offered Miss D the option to proceed with the insurance at the higher premium  but
with the £50 admin fee removed, or to cancel the policy. Miss D didnt accept any of the
options as she remained unhappy and asked this service to look into her complaint. Skyfire
agreed that they would wait for our decision before taking any further steps.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. He thought that there had
been a qualifying misrepresentation and agreed it was careless, and therefore thought
Skyfire were entitled to increase Miss Ds premium. He also felt that Skyfire had offered
Miss D a reasonable resolution by allowing her to cancel the policy or proceed with it  albeit
at a higher cost.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 April 2021. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments ts fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a 
policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy 
on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to 
take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on 
whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Skyfire thinks Miss D failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she stated in her application via a comparison site that she hadnt had any fault claims in 
the last five years. Skyfire said Miss D had an accident in 2018 which should have been 
declared as a fault claim as her insurers at the time were unable to recover costs for the 
incident from the third party.
Skyfire also implied that Miss D should have been aware of the information they wanted 
based on the questions that theyd asked. They said that In the motor insurance industry 
claims are categorised by fault and non-fault, based on which insurer has to pay the 
claim. This is standard industry practice and if your insurer incurred any costs as a result of 
a claim, it is categorised as fault.
But I dont agree that Miss D failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation to Skyfire. I say this because Ive looked at the question Miss D was 
asked on the online comparison website which Skyfire said was completed incorrectly. It 
says, Who was at fault and the response options were Accident, At fault; Accident, Not 
at Fault; and Accident, Both parties at Fault  it didnt ask how the claim was settled or 
which insurer had incurred costs.
This implication also assumes that the consumer taking out the policy would know and 
understand what the standard industry practice is. This doesnt seem fair given that  as 
happened in this case  the question can be answered on a literal basis.
In addition, the help button to provide information about how this question should be 
answered only refers to claims that were going through at the time of the application. It 
explained that if you werent sure who was at fault for an ongoing claim you should say it 
was yourself as the policyholder.
However, neither of these were relevant for Miss D as her claim had already been settled 
and she knew she wasnt at fault for the claim as the third party had caused damage to her 
car. It doesnt at any point explain the standard industry practice of what is meant by fault or non-fault, so I think it was reasonable for Miss D to answer the question in the way she 
did.
Ive also seen that the letter Miss D received from the previous insurer says that they 
werent able to pursue the claim and A recovery has not been made as the third party is 
not known. Skyfire have also acknowledged this in their Final Response Letter (FRL) to 
Miss D so they were also aware of this. So looking at the how the claim was settled, it was 
a non- recovery by the previous insurer, but this doesnt mean that Miss D was at fault for 
the incident, which is what she was asked when she took the policy out.
I acknowledge Skyfire said that the annual premium charged needs to reflect the correct 
risk. But Miss D shouldnt be asked to pay an increase in premium or cancellation costs 
because she wasnt asked the correct questions to allow the insurer to apply the correct risk 
to her policy.
Ive seen that Miss D tried to explain to Skyfire several times that if shed answered the 
question as it was asked, and Im satisfied that Miss D was factually accurate in how she 
completed the questions she was asked. I think Miss D took reasonable care in giving the 
answer she did, and because of this, I dont think Skyfire have the right to remedy under the 
CIDRA rules.
Putting things right
Skyfire said that because of the careless misrepresentation, they were going to increase 
Miss Ds annual premium by around £217 initially, and then around £167 after theyd 
removed a £50 administration fee. But I dont think this is fair given the circumstances of 
the complaint.
Im satisfied that Miss D took reasonable care when answering the questions she was asked 
on the online application. This means there is no remedy for Skyfire under CIDRA, so they 
cant chase Miss D for the additional premium, and they should remove all evidence of the 
cancellation from the internal and external databases.
Ive also seen that Miss D told Skyfire how distressing it was being chased for the 
additional premium - which shed explained she didnt have - or having to worry about her 
policy being cancelled without the refund of what shed already paid  leaving her with no 
way to insure her car going forward. So, given the circumstances of the complaint Skyfire 
should pay Miss D a total of £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
I invited Miss D and Skyfire to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. Both Miss D and Skyfire accepted my 
provisional decision, and neither party had anything more to add.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both Miss D and Skyfire responded to say they accepted my 
decision, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. 
So this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Skyfire should do the following:
Remove the outstanding additional fee from Miss Ds account;Remove any evidence of any notice of cancellation from any internal and external
databases;
Pay Miss D £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Skyfire Insurance Company Limited must 
follow the instructions Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman