DRN-4013996
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays hasnt refunded him money he says he lost through a fraud or 
a scam.
What happened
The facts of this case arent clear cut. In what follows, I have set out what appears to be the 
sequence of events as best as can be established given the evidence available to me.
In August 2020, a loan was taken out in Mr Ts name and credited to a bank account he 
holds with another bank (which Ill refer to as N). 
Mr T has provided two different explanations of what happened  one when he first reported 
the matter to Barclays, and another version in later discussions. Both are summarised 
below.
Version one
Mr T said hed been looking to apply for a mortgage and was wanting to improve his credit 
rating first. Hed got in contact with someone (who Ill refer to as M) on a well-known social 
media platform (which Ill refer to as S). Mr T had seen people online suggesting M was 
someone who could help boost credit scores.
He says all the contact he had with M was made through S. Messages on S are only kept 
available for a short time before being automatically deleted, so Mr T doesnt have any of the 
messages now. 
M told Mr T they could help boost his credit rating by arranging a loan. Mr T says he was 
interested in going ahead and he provided personal information and a copy of his driving 
licence.
Mr T said later that day he received £9,500. This was credited to his account held with 
another bank, N. He says that, straightaway on receipt of the loan money, he messaged the 
person on S to say he didnt want it, explaining the interest being charged was too much. 
Mr T said the person on S told him to send the money to him and hed return it to the loan 
company. 
Version two
Mr T said he knew a work colleague, who was also a friend. The friend had said they knew a 
way to claim back money from tax paid to HMRC and said theyd do this for Mr T. But when 
Mr T received a letter about this from HMRC it had the incorrect job title. Mr T immediately 
spotted this error. He contacted HMRC and said it should not process the claim. He later 
noticed hed received £9,500 into his account with N. 
Mr T says hed thought this credit in his account with N was maybe connected to the tax 
refund. He asked his friend, but his friend told him it was a loan. Mr T said he didnt want a 
loan and wanted to return the money. He says his friend gave him a sort code and account 
number to use to return the money to the loan company. 
Mr Ts payments
Common to both versions of Mr Ts story is that on the same day that Mr T received the loan 
funds, he wanted to return it to the loan company. He initially tried to do this from his account 
with N. But N blocked him from making the payments. 
So, Mr T then sent the money over to his Barclays account instead. He made three 
payments out from his account with Barclays: £2,000, £3,000 and £4,500. It appears 
Barclays also initially blocked some attempted payments.
Mr T says that he realised all wasnt right when he received an email from the loan company 
the next day. This showed the loan wasnt repaid - when Mr T had been told by his friend or 
the person on S that it would be.
Mr T says he reported what had happened to both the Police and Action Fraud, but neither 
has taken any action (against either the friend or the person on S) despite Mr T providing a 
home address.
Mr T also reported what had happened to Barclays. Barclays looked into the matter. But it 
didnt think it needed to refund Mr T (believing he had a civil dispute with the person hed 
dealt with on S). Barclays attempted to recover the payments Mr T had sent, but 
unfortunately none remained.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ts case. She noted that Barclays is a signatory of the 
Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. The CRM Code 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. She thought this should apply and Barclays should refund 
part of what Mr T had lost.
Barclays didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review everything afresh. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me for an independent review. 
Since then, the Investigator has spoken to Mr T and asked him to explain the different 
versions of his story. Mr T says version two is the true one. He accepts he lied when he first 
reported what had happened to Barclays. Mr T assured the Investigator that he wasnt being 
pressured or threatened into lying. He says he did so because he thought it might cause 
trouble with the bank for himself or his friend if he told the bank the truth. 
Mr T says that since the event, hes been very worried about what happened and the money 
he lost, meaning hes been unable to sleep. Hes now been prescribed sleeping tablets. But 
he says he didnt have any health issues or other vulnerabilities before the scam  these 
resulted from what happened to him.
I issued my provisional decision on Mr Ts complaint on 23 February 2023. In that provisional 
decision, I explained why I didnt intend to uphold his complaint. An extract of that decision is 
set out below and forms part of this final decision:
This is not a straightforward complaint to decide. The evidence before me is 
contradictory. In particular, Mr T has given conflicting versions of events, accepting he 
lied to Barclays during the investigation of the alleged APP scam. 
Whats more, having listened to the conversations Mr T has had with our Investigator I am not persuaded he has been completely open in response to all the questions she 
asked.
When considering a fair outcome here, Ive had to take all of this into account. 
Based on what Ive seen, I cant safely conclude that Mr T was the victim of an APP 
scam. The only evidence supporting this being an APP scam stems from Mr Ts own 
testimony, and I find that I cannot reasonably give that much weight. I also cant safely 
conclude that Mr T believed what he was doing had a wholly legitimate purpose.
That means that I do not find Barclays has acted unfairly in saying the CRM Code 
should not apply to these payments. I cannot fairly require Barclays to reimburse Mr T 
under the terms of that code.
Even if I were to think differently, and to find the CRM Code should apply, the terms of 
the code include the requirement that a bank should take into consideration whether 
during the process of assessing reimbursement the customer has acted dishonestly in a 
material respect. Mr T has now accepted he was dishonest when he reported the matter 
to Barclays at the start of its investigation. That false version of events significantly 
differed from what Mr T now says is true. I think that would have been material to 
Barclays ability to fairly decide reimbursement under the CRM Code. I dont find Mr Ts 
justification for this material dishonesty persuasive or plausible.
Ive noted that Barclays blocked some of the payments Mr T attempted at the time. The 
payments do not, on the face of it, appear significantly out of character when compared 
against Mr Ts prior usage of the account. Nevertheless, amongst other things, Ive 
considered whether any intervention by Barclays at this point might have prevented the 
payments being made altogether. 
But, I dont think that is the case. I dont think any intervention the bank might reasonably 
have made here would have stopped the payments from going through. In particular, 
Ive noted that the earlier blocking of Mr Ts payments from bank N didnt stop Mr T from 
sending the payments by another means. That suggests some determination on Mr Ts 
part. Mr T later provided a convincing version of events to Barclays which he now admits 
was wholly false, and so I cannot exclude the possibility hed also have been able to 
successfully deceive the bank had Barclays spoken to him sooner. In all, it seems to me 
that intervention by Barclays would have been unlikely to prevent Mr T from ultimately 
making these payments.
And all things considered, I have not found Barclays otherwise at fault in what happened 
or in how the bank handled matters after Mr T made the initial report. 
Overall, I dont find Barclays is liable to reimburse Mr T. If Mr T believes the loan was 
taken out without his consent (or knowledge) he may be able to bring a complaint about 
that against the lender. But I cant fairly tell Barclays to refund the disputed payments  it 
has not treated Mr T unfairly.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Barclays responded to my provisional decision saying it had nothing further to add. 
Mr T responded with additional information by email and spoke to the Investigator. He said 
the following information helps show he was the victim of a scam: 
Hes provided screenshots of his Barclays account showing direct debit payments to an energy supplier and a mobile phone company. Mr T says those payments were 
fraudulent, and he thinks they may have been arranged by the same persons he 
says tricked him in relation to the loan that is the subject of this complaint. 
Mr T believes the same persons were responsible for a speeding ticket issued to him. 
Mr T also received a phone call (which he recorded) from someone claiming to be 
from his internet service provider (ISP) the month after the loan payments. Hed been 
able to simultaneously ring the Police and had been told by the Police to hang up the 
call because the caller from the ISP wasnt genuine. He thinks this later attempt to 
scam him may also have been connected to those whod been involved with the loan 
payment.
At this point, Id note that Mr T has raised points concerning direct debit payments which he 
now disputes. If he considers they were payments he did not consent to, he should raise this 
directly with Barclays in the first instance (it may be these can be considered under the 
Direct Debit Guarantee scheme). However, that would be a separate matter to the complaint 
he has asked me to consider about the payments he made concerning a loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to determine whether Barclays Bank UK PLC was at fault or unfair in how it 
has treated Mr T, and if so what it should do to put matters right.
I have reviewed everything afresh, taking into consideration Mr Ts further submissions in 
response to my provisional findings. But nothing Mr T has raised leads me to a different 
outcome than that I reached in my provisional decision, and for largely the same reasons. 
I will explain why.
Specifically, the details Mr Ts provided (including a speeding ticket, details of a scam phone 
call, and mobile phone direct debit payment) dont change what I think about the loan and 
the associated payments he made. The new information doesnt demonstrate a link to what 
happened with the loan. 
For example, Mr T has explained to the Investigator that he recorded a conversation with a 
caller who was impersonating his ISP. He thinks this could have been connected to the 
current complaint. But even were Mr T to provide that recording, I am satisfied this would not 
provide evidence relevant to what happened with the loan. That scam conversation was at a 
later date and about a separate subject. Unfortunately, it is all too common to randomly 
receive calls of that type which arent legitimate  regardless of any other scam or fraud. 
I have seen nothing else leading me to think there is any connection here.
Of course, its possible that there might be a connection. But I cant reasonably eliminate the 
possibility that those events are unconnected. Indeed, I find that the other documents and 
screenshot information Ive reviewed would be equally consistent with that being the case. 
Lacking any such clear connection means that, while this is information Ive taken into 
account as part of the wider circumstances, Ive reached the conclusion that it doesnt shed 
light on what truly happened with the loan and the payments in this case.
In short then, the further points made by Mr T do not change the basis for the findings Id set 
out provisionally. They do not persuade me that I can safely conclude Mr T was the victim of 
an APP scam. Mr Ts own testimony remains the only evidence pointing to that  and as I explained in my provisional decision, I have been unable to give Mr Ts testimony much 
weight. He acknowledges he deliberately misled Barclays about this very subject by 
providing stories he now says were false (and says he did so because he thought a 
fabricated story would make it more likely hed be refunded by Barclays). 
I had also said that I couldnt safely conclude that Mr T believed what he was doing in 
relation to the loan had a wholly legitimate purpose. Mr Ts further submissions dont change 
what I thought about these or other points.
Overall, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings, which I consider fair and 
reasonable based on the facts before me. So, while I appreciate this will not be the answer 
Mr T wants, I dont find Barclays was at fault, that it has treated him unfairly, or that it now 
needs to do more than it did. I cant fairly require Barclays to reimburse Mr T.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman