DRN-3749417
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has 
handled a claim under his motor insurance policy. He says it shouldnt have accepted liability 
for an accident.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr Hs car was involved in an accident when he was pulling out of a side road. 
Mr H said the third party had been indicating to turn into the side road but changed their 
mind resulting in the accident. 
Mr H reported the incident to LV and told them there was only minimal damage to his car. He 
also said the third party had indicated they wouldnt be making a claim. LV advised Mr H that 
the third party may still raise a claim and agreed to notify Mr H if that happened. LV said it 
would also try and argue the incident occurred due to the misleading signal. 
Mr H didnt hear from LV but noticed on his renewal that LV had settled the claim as a fault 
claim against him. Unhappy with this Mr H complained to LV. LV considered the complaint 
and upheld part of it because it hadnt notified Mr H of the claim as it said it would do and 
offered him £50 in compensation. But it didnt agree it had acted unfairly in settling the claim 
and accepting liability on his behalf. 
Mr H remained unhappy so referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into his concerns, but they didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. They felt LV had 
acted fairly and reasonably, in line with the policy terms and conditions. They also thought 
£50 compensation from LV for not informing him of the claim was reasonable.   
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said he didnt accept liability for the collision and that the evidence provided 
demonstrated that the third-party was more likely to be at fault for the accident. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this wont be the answer Mr H was hoping 
for. Ill explain my reasoning.
LV has a duty to look into any claim made against Mr Hs policy, whether thats a claim made 
by him, or a claim made by a third party. Here, Ive seen the third-party insurers claim 
alleging Mr H was responsible for the accident damaging its insureds vehicle when coming 
out of the side road.
LV has a duty to investigate this claim. In Mr Hs policy, LV says it can have total control to 
conduct, defend and settle any claim.... This is a common term in most, if not all motor 
insurance policies, and its a term wed consider fair. Without this term, insurers would have 
to act on their insureds instructions and who or who wasnt at fault can be an emotive 
subject. Without this term its likely much more insurance claims would end up in court, 
costing insurers, and ultimately policyholders more money. But, naturally, this term means 
insurers may make decisions that their insured dont agree with.
While this term allows insurers to make the final decision on any claim, they still need to act 
fairly. Any decision they make needs to be fairly based on the available evidence.
I appreciate here that Mr H feels the messages sent to him by the third party show that they 
accepted liability and so LV were unreasonable in settling the claim on a liability basis on his 
behalf. But I disagree. Nothing in the messages provided shows the third party accepted 
liability or that they were indicating to turn into the side road before continuing straight 
ahead. While I note the third party initially said they may repair their own vehicle Im not 
satisfied this meant they accepted liability. I say this because the third party, in the message 
to Mr H, said they were shaken by the incident at the time and werent sure who would be at 
fault but on reflection they felt it was Mr Hs fault.  
The version of events provided by the third partys insurer suggest it also felt Mr H was at 
fault, so Id expect LV to consider the other evidence available to it. LV say they considered 
the damage caused to the third party vehicle and felt it was consistent with what it would 
expect to see in the type of incident where a driver exiting from the side road would be at 
fault. The damage to the third-party vehicle was behind the passenger side door rather than 
towards the front of the vehicle and as an insurer, LV is likely to have experience of how the 
matter would be viewed if it went to court. So taking this into account, I dont consider it 
acted unreasonably in coming to the conclusion it did on the liability of the claim.
In terms of not notifying Mr H of the claim, while Im sure this would have been a surprise for 
Mr H on renewal, I dont think it would have affected the overall decision by LV to settle the 
claim in the way that it did. So I think £50 is sufficient compensation for this as its in keeping 
with the amount Id require for such an error, in keeping with our published guidance. So I 
dont require LV to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman