DRN-1924577
complaint
Mr B says S.D Taylor Limited trading as LoansAtHome4u irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 19 loans Mr B took out with LoansAtHome4u between October 2008 
and September 2011. The loans ranged between £200 to £750.  
An adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought that LoansAtHome4u shouldnt have 
given Mr B loans 6 onwards. He said this was because the pattern of lending suggested Mr 
B had become reliant on short term lending. 
LoansAtHome4u didnt agree with the review carried out by the adjudicator. It said there 
wasnt enough evidence to show that LoansAtHome4u had irresponsibly given loans before 
2011. It did however offer to make an offer on all loans given to Mr B in 2011. This meant it 
made an offer on loans 14 onwards. 
The offer was outlined to Mr B who did not accept it. As an agreement couldnt be reached 
the case was passed to me  an ombudsman - to reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr B doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that LoansAtHome4u wasnt 
wrong to lend the first five loans. So, it seems that this lending isnt in dispute and so I dont 
need to make a finding on them, although I will be considering them when looking at Mr Bs 
overall financial situation.
LoansAtHome4u had to assess whether Mr B could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. LoansAtHome4us checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments and Mr Bs 
income and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, less thorough checks might have been proportionate. But certain factors might 
suggest LoansAtHome4u should have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for Mr B. These factors include: 
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable); 
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable). There may even come a point 
where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the 
lending was unsustainable for Mr B.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B.
LoansAtHome4u was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his home 
credit loans  not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. 
Having enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B 
was able to repay his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the 
case. The Financial Conduct Authoritys (the industry regulatory) says in the Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) states payments are sustainable if they are made without 
undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought 
reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are 
unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
LoansAtHome4u didnt agree with the adjudicators review as it said there was limited 
evidence to show loans 6 onwards were unaffordable for Mr B. It also said that based on the 
evidence that was available there was no indication Mr B was experiencing financial issues 
as he had never accrued more than two weeks of arrears and he was generally up to date 
with payments. LoansAtHome4u argue that this shows the checks that must have taken 
place were robust. 
Ive carefully considered LoansAtHome4us comments and having looked at the overall 
pattern of LoansAtHome4us lending history with Mr B, I agree with our adjudicator that 
LoansAtHome4u should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful, at the time it provided loan 6. I say this because: 
By loan 6 it was 9 months into the lending relationship with no significant breaks 
between loans. And some of the loans overlapped. In my view, Mr Bs loan history up 
until this point was a clear indication that his underlying financial situation didnt seem 
to be improving.
During the time between loans 1 to 6, LoansAtHome4u wouldve seen that some of 
the loans were repaid earlier than scheduled with Mr B refinancing them into a new 
loan. For example - loan one seems to have been refinanced by loan four, whilst loan 
two was refinanced with loan five. And loan three was paid off with loan six. So, 
considering this and Mr Bs repayment history I think LoansAtHome4u ought to have 
realised it was more likely than not Mr B, on this occasion, was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole the repayment of the previous loan had left in his finances 
and that this was indicative of his indebtedness not being sustainable.Mr B seemed to be encountering difficulty in maintaining regular payments. Looking 
at his loans repayments he would often accrue two payments. LoansAtHome4u have 
said Mr B was generally up to date with repayments, but the refinancing of existing 
loans along with payments accruing can be an early indication of a customer having 
issues managing finances.
The home credit loans show a broadly similar pattern of borrowing. Mr B was 
consistently borrowing £200-£300 up until loan six. I think its most likely this 
consistent pattern of borrowing over the period showed that Mr B didnt just have a 
short-term cash-flow problem but was probably supporting regular living expenses or 
other financial commitments. And from loan six onwards Mr Bs borrowing increased 
to a point where he was borrowing £750 per loan.
From loan 12 the level of lending was at its highest and over three times as much as 
it had been earlier in the relationship. Mr B wasnt making any real inroads in the 
amount he owed LoansAtHome4u and the amount of time that Mr B spent indebted 
to LoansAtHome4u meant that he was servicing a debt to LoansAtHome4u over an 
extended period. 
I think that Mr B lost out when LoansAtHome4u provided loans 6 to 19 because: 
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Bs 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans. 
I can see LoansAtHome4u has made an offer on loans arranged in 2011 onwards. Im 
upholding the complaint about loans these loans and the loans that havent been included by 
LoansAtHome4u, so loans 6 onwards. LoansAtHome4 should put things right as detailed 
below.
putting things right  what LoansAtHome4u needs to do
refund all interest and charges that Mr B paid from loan 6 onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date
of settlement*;
remove any negative information about loan 6 onwards from Mr Bs credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan 6 means any information recorded about them is
adverse. So all entries about loans 6 onwards should be removed from Mr Bs credit 
file
*HMRC requires you to take off tax from this interest. If Mr B asks LoansAtHome4u for a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off, LoansAtHome4u should provide this. If 
LoansAtHome4u intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Mr B owes, 
LoansAtHome4u must do this after tax.
my final decisionFor the reasons given above, I partly uphold Mr Bs complaint. S.D. Taylor Limited should 
put things right for Mr B as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman