DRN-3297420
The complaint
A limited company, which I will refer to as S, has complained about the settlement provided 
in relation to a business interruption claim under its business insurance policy with certain 
underwriters at Society of Lloyds. 
Mr S, as a director S, has brought the complaint on its behalf. Mr S is also represented in 
this complaint but Ill refer to Mr S or S throughout. 
What happened
S is a travel agent made a claim under the policy in 2020, after it was impacted by the 
Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
The underwriters agreed to cover three periods of lockdown and travel restrictions (24 March 
to 4 July 2020, 5 November to 2 December 2020 and 20 December 2020 to 23 March 2021) 
which it calculated was a total of 223 days. The underwriters said the total loss of revenue 
over this period, having compared figures for previous years, was around £2.7million. It 
deducted costs of sales savings and other savings for wages and general operating costs. 
Having deducted these it determined the total net loss of income was just over £340,000.
However, the underwriters also said that S was underinsured, as the revenue sum insured 
under the policy was significantly less than the true amount. Because of this, they applied 
the average clause in the policy which says that where the value of the insured business is 
found to be more than the sum insured, a policyholder is only entitled to claim a proportion of 
the sum insured. The underwriters calculated that S should have been insured for £3.6 
million but only taken cover for £500,000, 13.91% of the appropriate figure. The underwriters 
made a proportionate deduction to reflect that underinsurance and paid around £55,000 in 
settlement of the claim. 
After S complained, the underwriters said it offers cover on a gross profit or a gross revenue 
basis. The underwriters referred to advice it had obtained from forensic accountants to 
support its position that S chose cover on a loss of revenue basis and the evidence is that 
income is akin to gross profit. As the policy allows it to deduct for costs of sales and other 
factors, the calculation of the loss payable would have been the same, even if it had been on 
a loss of income/profit basis. The main issue is the underinsurance and the underwriters said 
it was for the broker that arranged the policy for S to ensure S had adequate cover and 
understood it. 
The underwriters also confirmed they had not deducted any Government grants from the 
settlement but did take account of business rate relief and furlough payments, which is 
standard practice and reasonable. The underwriters offered S £100 as a gesture of goodwill 
but were clear this was not compensation, as they do not think they did anything wrong.
S still does not agree that this is fair. It has made a number of points in support of its 
complaint. I have considered them all and have summarised the main points below:
Settlement has been on loss of gross revenue when it should be gross profit. S has 
explained as a travel agent, it would only retain the commission element of any 
payments and around 80% of its revenue/turnover would be passed on to the tour 
operator. So loss of revenue cover would be entirely inappropriate for its business, as 
its income is only around 20% of its turnover and it would never be able to claim for 
anything near the sum insured on a gross revenue basis. 
The policy defines cover on a loss of income basis. Because of this its cover was 
based on gross profit figures endorsed by its broker. There is reference to loss of 
revenue in the policy schedule but not loss of gross revenue and these terms do not 
appear anywhere else in the policy. The policy schedule and policy wording are 
contradictory, which causes ambiguity. Loss of income does not mean revenue. 
An accountancy training manual confirms revenue is total money generated from 
selling products or service and income is profits, after expenses are deducted from 
revenue; and the two are not interchangeable.  
It accepts thered still be some underinsurance even using gross profit as the basis of 
cover, but the underinsurance would have been a significantly lower percentage and 
therefore the settlement would still be considerably more (it says around £340,000). 
The underwriters deducted furlough payments from the claim amount and it 
questioned if that was fair.
Delays on the part of the underwriters have caused additional financial difficulties and 
huge distress. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not think the complaint should be 
upheld, as he was satisfied the underwriters were entitled to calculate the underinsurance on 
the basis of the sum insured being for revenue instead of profit. 
S does not accept the Investigators assessment. It has said if the policy schedule had been 
issued correctly, it would have shown loss of income instead of loss of revenue and would 
have mirrored the defined term in the policy wording. There would then be clarity and no 
issue, as confirmed by the underwriters experts: income is akin to gross profit. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Policy terms
Among other things, the policy provides cover for losses arising from interruption of the  
business as a result of certain events. One of those events is a manifestation of a 
contagious or infectious disease at the insured premises or within a 25 mile radius of it. 
The policy states that it will cover such losses 
in accordance with the Basis of Settlement detailed below and stated as an item 
against the sub section in the schedule being either loss of income or increased cost 
of working. 
Basis of settlement
(1) Loss of incomeLoss of income to the business due to (a) reduction in income and (b) additional 
expenditure  less any sum saved during the Indemnity Period in respect of charges 
and expenses payable out of Income as may reduce as a result of the [business 
interruption]. 
The policy defines income as:
money paid or payable to the Insured for services provided in the course of the 
Business at the premises. 
The policy also defines annual income as
Income during the 12 months immediately before the Damage to which all variation 
trend and other circumstances affecting the Business will be taken into account so 
that the amount so adjusted represents as nearly as practicable the results that 
would have been expected during the 12 months after the Damage had the damage 
not occurred.
The terms above are sufficiently clear and unambiguous in my opinion. I know S disputes 
some of the figures used but in principle, I agree with the underwriters that it results in the 
same calculation of loss. The loss to S is its profit, so whether the underwriters starts with a 
gross revenue and then deducts costs saved, or whether they start with the gross profit 
figure, the calculation would result in the same figure for the value of the claim; and S is only 
able to recover its actual loss, which is its lost profit. 
The issue however, is the sum insured.
Sum insured and underinsurance 
I have not considered whether its fair and reasonable for the underwriters to apply the 
average clause, as this was not part of Ss complaint. S can raise a separate complaint 
about whether that was fair if it wishes. What I have been asked to determine in this decision 
is whether it was fair to apply the average clause based on Ss revenue or income/profit. 
The policy schedule says that there is cover for business interruption as follows: 
Loss of revenue £500,000
Additional Increased cost of working £ not insured
Indemnity period 12 months.
The underwriters say the policy was provided on a gross revenue basis and the premium 
was calculated on the basis of Ss revenue (not income/profit) being £500,000 per annum. 
The underwriters accountants said income would be akin to gross profit but they say the 
policy definition of income is how revenue would be defined in a gross revenue policythe 
reference to revenue on the schedule ties in with the policy definition of income such that 
there is no discrepancy between the meaning and effect of the terms as used/defined. 
S says the reference to loss of revenue in the schedule creates ambiguity because it 
contradicts to the policy terms, which Ive referred to above. 
Having considered everything, I do not think the terms are unclear such that the underwriters 
should disregard the underinsurance based on the revenue figures. The policy defines 
income as money received by S for services provided, which would be the same as revenue 
received.  And the schedule is clear that the sum insured is revenue up to £500,000. I do not think that any misunderstanding about the basis of the sum insured is as a result of anything 
the underwriters did wrong. It would be for the brokers to ensure the appropriateness of the 
cover provided and whether it was suitable for Ss needs. 
So in this case I think its fair for the underwriters to apply the average clause based on 
revenue in the way it did and Im not going to require them to increase the amount they paid 
on the claim. However, if S wants to raise a complaint about the application of the average 
clause, it can do so separately.
Other matters
S is also unhappy that the underwriters only paid for the time it was forced to close (i.e. 233 
days) and not for the entire period that its business was affected by Covid-19, which was far 
longer than this up to 12 months cover. The policy covers disruption to the business and 
doesnt require it to have been closed. As far as I am aware, this has not been considered by 
the underwriters or Society of Lloyds yet, so I cant address this in this decision. The 
Investigator can assist in progressing this aspect of complaint if necessary. 
S also said the underwriters also made mistakes in its calculations and deducted too much 
for wages savings among other things. The Investigator confirmed that deduction of furlough 
payments would be reasonable but the other matters have not been considered by the 
underwriters either. So again, I cant deal with that in this decision. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman