DRN-3651246
The complaint
Mr A complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) 
irresponsibly lent him money that he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Tesco provided Mr A with a loan for £35,000 on 30 January 2016. The loan was repayable 
over 120 months at the monthly rate of £449. Part of the loan (around £16,400) was used to 
pay off a previous Tesco loan. The balance of the loan was said to be for home 
improvements. Mr A struggled to repay the loan and he missed several payments. In 
February 2019 Mr A was issued with default notice and In March 2019, having failed to pay 
the arrears, a default was placed on his credit file. He has since come to a payment 
arrangement with Tesco.
Mr A complained to Tesco that the loan was unaffordable to him. In particular he said it failed 
to take account of another loan that he was paying when assessing his application. 
Tesco said it took into account the information Mr A provided together with that provided by 
credit reference agencies. it said Mr A easily passed its affordability assessment with a 
considerable disposable income remaining. There were no adverse indicators such as 
missed payments, arrangements or bankruptcy identified by the credit reference agencies. 
It's confident its assessment was thorough, so to evidence Mr A could sustainably repay the 
loan. 
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman our investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint 
as based on the information obtained Mr A appeared to be able to afford the repayments. 
However our subsequent investigator requested copies of Mr As current account 
statements. From the evidence seen in those it was established that Mr A was spending 
considerable sums each month on gambling at the time of the application. Our investigator 
said that given the amount of the loan and the period of repayment Tesco should have done 
further checks which would likely have revealed the gambling. So she said Tesco shouldnt 
have provided the loan.
Tesco reiterated that Mr A was assessed by the credit reference agencies to have a good 
credit risk and given Mr As history with it, it didnt consider it necessary to obtain bank 
statements. As Mr A didnt tell it about his gambling it wouldnt have known about it at the 
timer of providing the loan. It asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Tesco complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr A would 
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr A would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Tesco to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr As ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Tesco had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Tesco had to ensure that making 
the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr A undue difficulty or significant adverse 
consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of normal 
income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other 
payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the repayments 
having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Tesco to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr A. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive noted that Tesco didnt ask Mr A for payslips nor did it verify his income. However as the 
income figure Mr A gave was accurate I dont think anything turns on this. But I do think that, 
given the amount of the loan, the period of repayment and the amount of each repayment 
Tesco should have carried out a thorough assessment of Mr As finances.
On the face of it, Tescos credit check showed Mr A to have only one loan i.e his existing 
Tesco loan, no other loans, and no revolving credit (credit or store cards). However Mr A has 
shown us details of a loan which was issued to him on 25 November 2015, for which he was 
paying £167 a month, which hasnt been recorded by Tesco on its affordability check. As 
Mr A has shown us details of a more recent report from the same credit reference agency, 
showing the loan, I could assume that it hadnt yet been reported to that agency when Tesco 
did its check. But the later report did show that the record was updated on 1 January 2016 and given the date of the loan it seems likely the credit check was done after that. However 
as I havent seen the copy report Tesco obtained at the time, I cant verify this. The amount 
of that loan repayment added to the new Tesco repayment would have increased his credit 
to income ratio from about 24% to 33%. 
Mr A was assessed as having a disposable income after taking account of the new loan 
repayment of £678, which would have been £511 taking account of the missed loan. And, 
whilst he didnt say he what he was doing with it, he did repay that loan from the funds 
provided by the Tesco loan.
But I dont think that, on its own that would have been a reason to decline the loan. The loan 
payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  
Mr As loan history with Tesco, as advised to us by it, is that he borrowed £5,000 in 2013 for 
home improvements, and in March 2014 a further £5,000 for home improvements. In 
November 2014 he topped up his existing loan to £18,000, again for home improvements, 
and to pay off a credit card debt of £1,900. And, as Ive said the present loan issued in 
January 2016 was partly to pay off the second loan, as topped up and a substantial sum for 
home improvements. 
However whilst Tesco partly justifies providing the loan by pointing out that Mr A kept up with 
all the payments on those loans, it never queried why Mr A kept coming back for ever 
increasing sums for home improvements. Mr A has shown us his records, which show that 
none of those loans were used for home improvements. Rather they were used to pay off 
other loans. Whilst I would not expect Tesco to be interested in any paid off loans, the fact 
that Tesco loans, provided for something else, paid off those loans is I think significant in 
that it kept his credit score high. Those loans would have shown on his record as being paid 
off after receiving the Tesco loans.
As Ive said, in light of his repeated borrowing, the amount being advanced (which I 
understand is the maximum Tesco will loan) and the term and repayment period, I dont think 
Tesco carried out proportionate checks. And in any event from the checks it did, I think it 
should have been alerted to the fact that Mr A kept asking to borrow monies for home 
improvements. So I think Tesco should have carried out further checks. The easiest way to 
carry out those checks would have been to ask for recent bank statements. However Tesco 
decided to do this such checks would most likely have revealed that Mr A was spending 
substantial sums on gambling, of several thousand pounds a month. And as Tesco has 
advised us, had it been aware of Mr As gambling problem it most certainly wouldnt have 
lent to him.
I think, in the particular circumstances of this case, that Tesco should refund the interest and 
any other charges on this loan, as set out below.
Putting things right
Mr A has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that he should repay 
this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think Tesco should refund all interest and 
charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan. Treat any payments made by Mr A as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Mr A has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Tesco should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr A
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr As credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr A 
a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman