DRN-3582404
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Drydens Limited initiated a court claim against him in error.
What happened
This complaint surrounds a credit card account that Drydens were asked to manage on 
behalf of the debts owner.
Drydens asked Mr W to complete an income and expenditure form and to make an offer of 
repayment. Mr W did so within the allotted time, and gave Drydens his correct account 
details for a direct debit.
Drydens didnt set up the direct debit properly. They initially blamed Mr W for this, saying 
hed given them the wrong details. They wrote him an email about this, but sent it to an 
address thats different to the one Mr W provided.
Mr W then received a county court claim. He complained, but Drydens insisted hed given 
them the wrong details. Mr W investigated on Drydens behalf, made a number of phone 
calls, cross-checked the account details, and was able to show hed given them the correct 
ones. Drydens apologised and discontinued the court claim, but declined to provide any 
further redress.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They proposed 
that Drydens pay Mr W £300 compensation. Drydens felt this was too much, so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Drydens made a number of errors here, such as failing to set up the direct debit, placing the 
blame on Mr W, and failing to notify him about what had happened. I can see that their email 
was addressed to a different email provider to the one Mr W uses. That would explain why 
he says he never got it.
Drydens also didnt properly look into what happened at first, meaning Mr W had to make a 
number of phone calls and sort things out himself. And having listened to some of the calls 
involved, Drydens dont seem to have been very helpful.
Im glad that Drydens ultimately apologised, discontinued the claim, and removed the 
proposed court fees. But in the meantime, they caused Mr W some significant stress, 
frustration, and worry, and he had to put in time and effort to get things back on track after 
Drydens errors. That needs to be put right.
I understand Mr W asked for £2,000 compensation, on the basis of £100 per phone call and 
£100 per sleepless night. I do appreciate where hes coming from, though we dont award 
compensation in that method. Its also worth bearing in mind that were here to resolve 
complaints, rather than to punish businesses or issue fines  which is more the regulators 
territory. We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, based on a 
holistic look at the circumstances of the individual case, and I need to be consistent with 
those. Looking at what Drydens got wrong here, and the impact it had for Mr W, I agree with 
our investigator that £300 compensation would be fair to put things right. I understand that 
Drydens thinks this is too much, but it is very much in line with our approach, whereas the 
£150 they offered would instead be too little.
So I award £300 compensation here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint, and direct Drydens Limited to pay 
him £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman