DRN-4343716
The complaint
Miss D complains that due to delays by Pure Mortgage Ltd when it advised her about a buy 
to let mortgage and a residential mortgage she missed out on lower interest rate products. 
She asks that Pure Mortgage pays compensation.
What happened
Miss D took mortgage advice from Pure Mortgage. Miss D wanted to take out a residential 
mortgage to buy a property. She also wanted to take out a buy to let mortgage on a property 
she owned, to raise funds for a deposit for the residential property.
In early March 2022 Pure Mortgage carried out a fact find and made recommendations to 
Miss D. Ill refer to the recommended lenders as B1 (for the residential mortgage) and 
BTL1 (for the buy to let mortgage).
The broker was unwell and away from work from early June 2022 for over a month. He 
accepts he didnt keep Miss D informed about this or arrange for a colleague to deal with her 
applications. The application to BTL1 hadnt progressed and the broker hadnt submitted an 
application to B1.
Miss D took advice elsewhere and received mortgage offers in mid-July 2022. She says 
interest rates increased during the delays and shes about £200 per month worse off. Miss D 
had to move out of her rented property at the end of June 2022, before her purchase 
completed.
Initially, Pure Mortgage said it would compensate Miss D for her increased interest costs. It 
then said Miss D didnt pass BTL1s affordability checks for the amount she needed to 
borrow. Pure Mortgage said there were other matters that would have delayed Miss Ds 
mortgages completing. Pure Mortgage offered £2,000 to cover the fees Miss D paid to the 
new broker and the inconvenience caused.
After the complaint came to us, Miss D said shed spoken to BTL1 and found out that further 
delays were caused by Pure Mortgage failing to submit an application for six weeks. She 
says this information was withheld from her at the time and when she raised a complaint.
My provisional decision
I sent a provisional decision to the parties, setting out why I intended to uphold the 
complaint, as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Miss D took mortgage advice from Pure Mortgage about a buy to let mortgage and a 
residential mortgage.
I should first say that buy to let mortgages arent regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. That means we cant always consider complaints about the advice given by 
brokers about buy to let mortgages. Advice about residential mortgages is a regulated 
activity, and something we can consider complaints about. We can also consider matters 
which are ancillary to a regulated activity.
Miss D wanted to take out a buy to let mortgage to raise funds for the deposit for the 
residential property she wanted to buy. The application for the residential mortgage couldnt 
go ahead without the deposit. Pure Mortgage advised on both mortgages together  in fact, 
Miss D says Pure Mortgage advised her that it wouldnt submit an application for the 
residential mortgage until BTL1 issued an offer for the buy to let mortgage.
I think the advice about the buy to let mortgage was ancillary to the advice about the 
residential mortgage. That means we can consider Miss Ds complaints about poor service 
and delays in relation to both the regulated residential mortgage and the buy to let mortgage.
Problems and delays with the application to BTL1
Pure Mortgage accepts it made an error when its broker was away from work between mid- 
June 2022 and mid-July 2022 and didnt arrange for a colleague to progress Miss Ds 
applications.
Miss D had no response from the broker after 11 June 2022. When she contacted a 
colleague, he had difficulty progressing her application as he didnt have authority to deal 
with BTL1.
Miss D took mortgage advice elsewhere. She received mortgage offers from two different 
lenders (who Ill refer to as B2 for the residential mortgage and BTL2 for the buy to let 
mortgage) on 11 July 2022. The interest rates were higher than the mortgages 
recommended by Pure Mortgage. There were increases in the Bank of England base rate in 
mid-March 2022, early May 2022 and mid-June 2022.
Pure Mortgage wrote to Miss D in late July 2022. It proposed paying compensation for the 
additional interest costs if Miss Ds mortgages completed. It later withdrew this offer, saying 
the mortgages it applied for on Miss Ds behalf wouldnt have completed. It gave reasons for 
this, which Ill comment on below.
Miss D said she only went ahead as Pure Mortgage had offered to compensate her for the 
additional costs. She said shed also found out that Pure Mortgage might have caused 
delays before June 2022.
Miss D says she was told by Pure Mortgage it made an application on her behalf on 1 March 
2022. I think though that was the agreement in principle. This isnt a mortgage offer, which is 
subject to the lenders checks.
Pure Mortgage did fact finds with, and issued recommendation letters to, Miss D in early 
March 2022. It recorded that Miss D wanted fixed rate products for five years as she 
expected interest rates to increase. Miss D says she provided requested documents (such 
as payslips and bank statements) on 4 March 2022 and provided evidence to support this. 
She says Pure Mortgage asked for updated payslips and bank statements on 13 April 2022, 
which she also provided.
BTL1 told us Pure Mortgage submitted an application on behalf of Miss D on 13 April 2022. Pure Mortgage says it was unable to submit an application to BTL1 until 12 April 2022 due to 
problems with BTL1s systems.
In mid-April 2022 BTL1 asked for information about Miss Ds purchase and whether this 
would require a mortgage. It also asked for confirmation regarding know your client (KYC or 
identification) documents which Pure Mortgage provided a couple of days later.
BTL1 says it had to chase Pure Mortgage for information about the residential mortgage and 
didnt receive this until the end of June 2022. Pure Mortgage says it submitted an update 
form in mid-April 2022 and didnt initially know this hadnt been uploaded correctly. It 
submitted another update form in June 2022 which BTL1 was unable to read.
In early July 2022 Miss D took advice elsewhere.
I think Pure Mortgage caused delays with Miss Ds applications:
between 4 March 2022 (when Miss D provided the necessary documents for the 
application) and 12 April 2022 (when Pure Mortgage submitted the application to BTL1).
there were further delays from mid-April 2022 when BTL1 asked for information which 
wasnt provided.
from what Miss D says, Pure Mortgage didnt submit an application for the residential 
mortgage. If so, this likely meant it didnt secure an interest rate product for her. This 
could explain why it didnt provide information requested by BTL1 about the residential 
mortgage commitment.
There were further delays when the broker was away from work in June 2022.
This was during a period of interest rate rises. While Pure Mortgage says it had trouble with 
BTL1s systems, it hasnt provided evidence to support this. If problems with BTL1s systems 
meant it couldnt submit an application for nearly six weeks I think it should have discussed 
with Miss D whether to apply to a different lender.
If it did submit an application to B1, Pure Mortgage should provide evidence of this and how 
the application progressed. If not, it should explain why this was given that interest rates 
were rising.
Issues raised by Pure Mortgage about why the mortgages it recommended couldnt have 
completed
Pure Mortgage said Miss D wouldnt have been able to complete on her buy to let re-
mortgage and residential mortgage before early July 2022.
First, Miss D had applied to extend the lease for the buy to let property in mid-2021 and this 
hadnt been updated by the Land Registry. A previous lenders charge was still on the title. 
The re-mortgage of the buy to let property couldnt proceed until the Land Registry updated 
the title. Miss Ds emails suggest this didnt happen before mid-August 2022. Most likely 
though this issue would have been spotted by the conveyancers and sorted out sooner if 
Miss D had received mortgage offers earlier in 2022.
Second, Miss D was offered a new job in early July 2022, with a salary increase of £6,000. 
Miss D started the new job in late August 2023. Pure Mortgage said even if Miss D had 
received mortgage offers from B1 and BTL1 theyd have had to be notified of her new job as 
this was a material change and shed have had to provide a months payslip.The change in Miss Ds job wasnt a problem for the two lenders that issued mortgage offers 
to her. But even if this had delayed completion, based on the evidence provided by Pure 
Mortgage, its unlikely it would have resulted in the lenders withdrawing a mortgage offer. 
Most likely Miss D would have kept the benefit of any lower interest rate products.
Third, Pure Mortgage updated Miss Ds application with BTL1 at the end of August 2022. 
BTL1 said the application failed on affordability grounds by about £100 per month. BTL1 said 
it would lend about £103,000 rather than the £128,000 applied for. I note that Pure Mortgage 
submitted monthly payments for the residential mortgage Miss D was offered by BTL2 not 
the mortgage it recommended in March 2022. The payments were about £70 per month 
higher, probably because of the higher interest rate.
Its not as clear as Pure Mortgage suggests that Miss D would have failed BTL1s 
affordability tests had the application proceeded in March 2022. But if she had, shed have 
been able to make an application to another lender before interest rates increased.
Pure Mortgage also said Miss D only started to receive rental income from the end of 
January 2022. I note that the intermediarys search form provided by Pure Mortgage said the 
application would be assessed on the applicants income and not rental income. Miss D says 
she was asked for payslips but not asked to provide proof of rental income. She says she 
could have increased the rent, as shes now done anyway.
Fourth, Pure Mortgage says the number of potential lenders for the buy to let mortgage was 
reduced because Miss Ds sister lived at the property. It said BTL2 didnt offer buy to let 
mortgages when a member of the family was living in the property, so an application couldnt 
have been made to BTL2 until shed moved out. To support this, it provided an 
intermediarys search form which listed potential lenders. BTL2 isnt on the list, but then nor 
is BTL1.
The fact find says Miss Ds sister had been living at the property for about six months after 
separating from a partner. Miss D says her sister moved out at the end of June 2022. This 
looks to have been a temporary arrangement. Given that Miss Ds sister had moved out, it's 
unlikely this would have been a problem for a mortgage completing after June 2022  and 
its possible shed have moved out sooner if this was a problem.
Presumably, Miss Ds sister planned to move out some time before doing so. I think an 
application could have been made on the basis Miss Ds sister would move out before 
completion. If Pure Mortgage disagrees, it should explain why and provide evidence to 
support what it says. If Miss Ds sister had planned on staying in the property after the 
mortgage completed, it would presumably have been possible to make an application to one 
of the potential lenders listed on the intermediarys search form.
Miss D was offered mortgages by high street lenders in July 2022. Her financial 
circumstances didnt change between March 2022 and early July 2022. I think this strongly 
suggests applications made earlier in 2022 would have been successful, and Miss D would 
have been able to choose from products with lower interest rates.
Did Pure Mortgage cause Miss D financial loss?
Miss D says shell pay about £200 per month more for her two mortgages than shed have 
paid for the two mortgages recommended by Pure Mortgage.
Its not clear that Miss Ds financial loss is the difference between the cost of the mortgages 
recommended in early March 2022 and the mortgages she took out. Its difficult to say with 
certainty that Miss D would have received mortgage offers from B1 and BTL1. Its possible that the problems with the application to BTL1 between early March 2022 and June 2022 
were due to BTL1s systems. Its also possible that Miss D wouldnt have met BTL1s 
affordability criteria for the amount she wanted to borrow. As it seems no application was 
made to B1 we dont know how this would have progressed.
But I think Miss D lost the opportunity to apply for mortgages before interest rates increased. 
Miss Ds applications to B2 and BTL2 were successful, and I think this would have been the 
case if applications had been submitted earlier in 2022. We asked these lenders for their 
rates between March 2022 and July 2022.
Residential mortgage: B2s interest rates for equivalent products (with the same loan to 
value, product fee and term) were 2.57% (from 25 March 2022 to 11 April 2022) and 2.82% 
(from 12 April 2022 to 8 June 2022). The rate in the mortgage offer issued to Miss D was 
3.45%.
Buy to let mortgage: BTL2s interest rates for equivalent products (with the same loan to 
value, product fee and term) were 2.15% (from 14 March 2022 to 3 April 2022); 2.53% (from 
4 April 2022 to 15 May 2022) and 2.49% (from 16 May 2022 to 7 June 2022). The rate in the 
mortgage offer issued to Miss D was 3.05%.
If an application was started  or attempted  with BTL1 first, this would have delayed an 
application to another lender. I appreciate there were complications here, with the residential 
application dependent on the buy to let application and Miss Ds sister living at the property 
until the end of June 2022. But, even after taking this into account, I cant see why 
applications couldnt have been submitted in time for Miss D to benefit from the 2.57% rate 
on her residential mortgage and the 2.49% rate on the buy to let mortgage.
I think Pure Mortgage should compensate Miss D for her additional interest costs on this 
basis. It should provide calculations in response to this provisional decision. I think it already 
has the information it needs to do this (such as the mortgage offers from B2 and BTL2), but 
if not, it can ask for what it needs.
I think Pure Mortgage should refund any fees it received from Miss D and any other costs 
she incurred in relation to the applications to B1 and BTL1, plus interest at 8% simple.
I dont think its fair to require Pure Mortgage to pay for the fees and costs related to the 
advice Miss D received from the other broker or the successful applications. These are costs 
shed have incurred if shed gone directly to the other broker.
I think it is fair to require Pure Mortgage to pay compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience its poor service and delays caused to Miss D. She had to provide evidence to 
a new broker and to support new mortgage applications. Shed have been worried about the 
delays, especially when she was unable to contact her broker at Pure Mortgage. Miss D 
says she had to leave her rented property before her purchase completed. She went ahead 
with her purchase and mortgages in the belief that Pure Mortgage would compensate her for 
the additional interest, and was then told this wasnt the case. Taking all this into account, I 
think Pure Mortgage should pay compensation of £400 to Miss D.
Both parties will now have an opportunity to comment and provide further evidence.
How did the parties respond to my provisional decision?
Miss D made the following points:
She had to pay the second broker a higher fee to deal with the matter on a priority basis, due to the delays caused by Pure Mortgage.
The second broker made applications to lenders that could deal with an application 
quickly, rather than those offering the most competitive rates.
When Pure Mortgage asked her for updated documents in April 2022 it said this was 
because BTL1 had a backlog, it didnt say it had problems submitting the application.
Pure Mortgage repeated previous points, about Miss D not receiving rent for the buy to let 
property. It also said in summary:
When it spoke to Miss D in late 2021 and in June 2022 her sister had no plans to move 
out of the property and there was no suggestion that asking her to leave was an option. 
It wasnt possible to submit an application to any unregulated buy to let lender while a 
relative was living at the property.
It provided copies of chat transcripts from 11 April 2022 with BTL1 about whether it was 
acceptable for a relative to live in the property. BTL1 said this was up to the valuer.
It provided an undated chat transcript with BTL2 where it said a relative living in a 
property would have to move out before an application was submitted.
It thought Miss D would have continued with her purchase regardless of its offer of 
compensation. It said it offered compensation on the basis there was no change in 
Miss Ds circumstances. It didnt know her sister had moved out, meaning an application 
could be made to other buy to let lenders.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having read the comments from the parties, Im not persuaded to change my findings that 
Pure Mortgage made errors and caused delays. 
Id add that its chat transcript with BTL1 on 11 April 2022 suggests it hadnt yet submitted  
or tried to submit  an application on behalf of Miss D. If it had been trying to submit an 
application for nearly six weeks, Id expect it to provide evidence of a somewhat different 
conversation.
Pure Mortgages comment that it was not possible to submit an application with any lender 
while Miss Ds sister was living at the property isnt consistent with what it said previously. It 
had previously said this restricted the number of lenders and provided an intermediarys 
search form which (it said) listed potential lenders when a relative lives in the property. 
But if this is right, Pure Mortgage should have told Miss D this at the outset so that she (and 
her sister) could decide what to do. There was no need for Miss D to discuss moving out 
with her sister if Pure Mortgage hadnt said it was necessary to secure a mortgage. Instead, 
based on what Pure Mortgage told her, Miss D looked for and made an offer to buy a 
property on the basis shed be able to take out a buy to let mortgage to fund the deposit while her sister remained in the property. 
Pure Mortgage has given a variety of reasons as to why it says Miss D wouldnt have been 
offered a mortgage, or wouldnt have been offered a mortgage sooner or at a better rate. 
We cant of course be certain what would have happened if Pure Mortgage had provided 
better service and advice in March 2022. But, ultimately, Miss D was offered a buy to let and 
a residential mortgage. She received offers within a short time after applications were 
submitted and these mortgages completed at the interest rates in the offers. I agree that the 
applications were not straightforward. But to the extent the issues raised by Pure Mortgage 
were problems, I think its likely theyd have been resolved sooner if Miss D had received 
better advice and service from Pure Mortgage in March 2022. 
Because of delays caused by Pure Mortgage, Miss D lost the opportunity to apply for 
mortgages before interest rates increased. Even allowing time for the issues raised by Pure 
Mortgage to be resolved (if necessary) I think Miss D could have secured mortgages with 
BTL2 and B2 at rates available earlier in 2022.
Ive re-considered the redress I proposed in my provisional decision in light of the parties 
further comments. Having done so, I still think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances, 
with one change that the parties are aware of. 
I asked Pure Mortgage to provide calculations in response to my provisional decision. Im 
sorry it didnt do this, as this is intended to reduce the risk of a misunderstanding or dispute 
after the final decision. 
Pure Mortgage should calculate:
the amount of interest Miss D will pay for her mortgage with B2 at the product interest 
rate from completion until the expiry of the product she took out.
the amount of interest Miss D will pay for her mortgage with BTL2 at the product interest 
rate from completion until the expiry of the product she took out.
the amount of interest Miss D would have paid for her mortgage with B2 from completion 
until the expiry of the product she took out if the interest rate had been 2.57%.
the amount of interest Miss D would have paid for her mortgage with BTL2 from 
completion until the expiry of the product she took out if the interest rate had been 
2.49%.
For the purposes of the calculation Pure Mortgage should assume all mortgage 
payments are made on time.
Pure Mortgage should add together the results of 1 and 2, and deduct from this the 
results of 3 and 4. 
Pure Mortgage should pay the resulting amount to Miss D. It should send a copy of its 
calculations to Miss D. 
Miss D confirmed she didnt pay fees to Pure Mortgage.
Miss D says she paid for a priority service with her new broker, and the mortgage 
applications were made to lenders with a short application period rather than those offering 
the best rates. She said this wouldnt have been necessary if there hadnt been the delays caused by Pure Mortgage. 
I dont think it would be fair to base compensation on rates offered by other lenders. I cant 
be uncertain these lenders would have offered mortgages to Miss D. But I do agree that 
Pure Mortgage should compensate Miss D for the additional cost of the brokers priority 
service. Miss D provided evidence that the additional cost was £400 and Pure Mortgage 
agreed to pay this. 
I think its fair to require Pure Mortgage to pay compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience its poor service and delays caused to Miss D. She had to provide evidence to 
a new broker and to support new mortgage applications. Shed have been worried about the 
delays, especially when she was unable to contact her broker at Pure Mortgage. Miss D 
says she had to leave her rented property before her purchase completed. She went ahead 
with her purchase and mortgages in the belief that Pure Mortgage would compensate her for 
the additional interest, and was then told this wasnt the case. Taking all this into account, I 
think Pure Mortgage should pay compensation of £400 to Miss D.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Pure Mortgage Ltd to pay to Miss D:
Compensation calculated as set out above. It should also send a copy of its calculations 
to Miss D; plus
£800.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman