DRN-4176990
The complaint
G, a limited company, complains Aviva Insurance Limited didnt pay the full amount it 
believes is due following a claim on its business interruption policy. 
What happened
G has a Combined Commercial Insurance policy with Aviva which includes cover for 
business interruption. In August 2018 there was an escape of water (from a burst water 
main) in the street where it has its premises. The water caused damage to stock and other 
items in its premises and the road remained closed for some time afterwards. 
G made claims on its policy with Aviva for material damage and business interruption. I 
understand the damage claim has been settled so that isnt something which forms part of 
this complaint. In relation to the business interruption claim the loss adjusters report from 
the time said the Insureds evidence is that footfall has significantly reduced since the 
incidentinsofar as sales are concerned, the Insured advises that turnover has been 
significantly reduced since the date of the incident, partially arising from a reduced level of 
stock but primarily due to a decline in the number of customers visiting the premises.
Aviva considered the claim under the Prevention of access section of the policy. It accepted 
G had suffered a loss of business and paid it £50,000 (the limit for this section of cover set 
out in the policy schedule). 
G said having reviewed matters it now thought its losses were caused because (acting on 
advice from the loss adjuster) staff had sought to repair damaged items which resulted in 
lost sales as they werent able to focus on existing customers who took their business 
elsewhere. Items that were sold had to be discounted. And that reduction in income meant G 
wasnt able to buy and refurbish machinery which had been a significant contributor to its 
profits. 
So it thought the claim should be considered under the main section of the business 
interruption policy which covered escape of water and had a limit of nearly £260,000. It also 
noted a subsequent closure of the road where its premises were situated hadnt impacted its 
sales. 
Aviva didnt think G had shown there was an additional loss as a result of the issues arising 
from the water damage based on its past trading records. So it didnt agree to make any 
further payment. 
Our investigator noted Aviva had paid out the full amount under the prevention of access 
section of the policy. So he considered whether it had acted fairly in not paying out the 
claimed amount under the escape of water section. He accepted that evidence provided by 
G did show there was a dip in profits in 2018. However, he didnt think G had evidenced that 
was a result of the damage caused by escape of water. The loss adjuster hadnt been 
satisfied it resulted from that and the information provided was from two years after the 
insured event. He agreed Aviva didnt need to make any further payment. 
G didnt agree. In summary it said
Aviva had agreed to pay £2,000 for business interruption resulting from water damage 
(in addition to the payment under the prevention of access part of the policy). So it must 
have accepted there was a link here.
It provided photographs showing the extent of the damage caused and explained why 
that had impacted sales. And it said the later road closure didnt have a significant impact 
on those sales.
It was the loss adjuster (acting on behalf of Aviva) who had said it should try and repair 
stock to mitigate its losses and that had contributed to the loss in sales (as staff were 
employed in carrying out repair work). So Aviva should be responsible for this.
It provided details of its monthly sales in the two years prior to the incident alongside 
sales for the period after it and believed these did demonstrate a significant drop which it 
said was attributable to the flood.
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Its for the insured to show an insured event under the policy has taken place. If they can, its 
then for the insurer to show, on balance, that an exclusion or condition applies which means 
it can turn down an otherwise valid claim.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Gs policy. The business interruption section 
says:
We will cover You for any interruption or interference with The Business resulting from 
Damage to property used by You at The Premises for the purpose of The Business 
occurring during the Period of Insurance caused by the Contingencies stated in The 
Schedule
Those contingencies include escape of water from any tank, apparatus or pipe or escape of 
fuel from any fixed oil heating installation.
And the policy schedule sets out that the sum insured under the main business interruption 
policy is around £260,000 (Insured Profit) with a maximum indemnity period of 12 months. 
For Prevention of Access (which is an additional cover) the sum insured is £50,000. 
The policy goes on to explain the Basis of Settlement:
We will cover You only for loss of Insured Profit due to 
(1) reduction in Turnover, and 
(2) increase in cost of working. We will pay, less any savings during the Indemnity Period in business charges or expenses, 
payable out of Insured Profit, which reduce or cease due to the Damage, 
(1) Turnover, the sum produced by applying the Rate of Insured Profit to the amount by 
which, due to the Damage, the Standard Turnover exceeds the Turnover during the 
Indemnity Period. 
(2) increase in cost of working, any additional expense You necessarily and reasonably incur 
solely to prevent or limit a reduction in Turnover during the Indemnity Period which but for 
such additional expenses would have taken place due to the Damage. We will not pay, in 
respect of (2) above, more than the amount produced by applying the Rate of Insured Profit 
to the reduction in Turnover avoided by the expenditure.
Turning to the claim made by G, the contemporaneous reports from the loss adjuster say it 
believed its business interruption loss primarily related to the closure of the road. So I think it 
was reasonable of Aviva to consider the claim on that basis and its paid out the maximum 
available under that section of the policy. 
However, G subsequently argued the claim should be considered under the escape of water 
section of the policy. It said damage caused by the flood meant its employees had to spend 
time in carrying out work associated with that rather than focussing on their core role. And 
that led to a reduction in sales. That then meant G wasnt able to purchase machinery for 
refurbishment and onward sale. 
I understand how this could have impacted Gs sales. And Ive reviewed the photographs G 
provided and these do show reasonably significant water ingress to its premises. I dont think 
its in dispute that took place. Nor do I think its in dispute that there has been some impact 
on Gs business. Aviva wouldnt have paid out under prevention of access section of the 
policy if it hadnt been satisfied of that (the amount of £2,000 it also paid under the main 
section of the policy was for losses directly relating to the 48 hour period Gs business was 
closed). 
I appreciate G doesnt believe a subsequent closure of the road had any significant impact 
on its sales. And that the reason it decided to repair stock was based on advice from Avivas 
loss adjuster. However, G is recorded as telling the loss adjuster that the initial closure had 
impacted sales due to a decline in the number of customers visiting the premises. I dont 
think the fact a subsequent road closure impacted it differently means that was incorrect. 
That road closure took place two years later in which time G could well have made changes 
to its business operating model. 
Nor have I seen other evidence to support Gs view that the loss adjuster told it to repair 
stock. The loss adjusters contemporaneous report from September 2019 (following his visit 
to the premises) says G thought larger items remained saleable at close to their original 
retail value subject to sympathetic cleaning, drying and re-lubrication. 
And the Insured would prefer to undertake all restoration in house and is making enquiries 
regarding the availability of temporary or contract labour to assist with this task, with a view 
to freeing up employed technicians for regular tasks. That suggest to me it was Gs decision 
to refurbish this stock and its intention at the time was to source temporary labour to assist 
with this. 
In any event I think the key question here is to what extent Gs sales (and therefore its 
Insured Profit) were reduced as a consequence of any business interruption (whatever the 
cause of that was). And if theres been an impact here that exceeds the amount Aviva has 
already paid out on the policy; it would only need to take further action if that was the case. G believes there has been a much more significant loss. Its provided sales figures for the 
two years prior to the loss and subsequently. It says these show year on year growth of 
around 35% was being achieved. And its used that figure to predict the monthly sales G 
would have achieved but for the flood. 
However, Avivas loss adjuster reviewed that information and wasnt persuaded that did 
demonstrate trend growth at that level. He noted no discernible month to month, or season 
to season, pattern of trading was identified from historic financial data and occasional spikes 
in turnover appeared to arise due to one off contracts rather than any continuing positive 
trend. He thought anticipated turnover for the 12 month period following the loss (the period 
covered by the policy) was £514,673. That gave rise to a shortfall of around £81,800 and a 
loss of Insured Profit of around £33,500. Aviva nevertheless agreed to settle the claim at the 
£50,000 limit set out in the prevention of access section of the policy. 
Ive reviewed the information provided by G to decide if Aviva has acted fairly. I appreciate 
that a straight comparison of its sales in the two years before the flood does show an 
increase of around 35%. But as, the loss adjuster identified, the monthly figures for those 
periods are inconsistent. For some months theres no increase. And while there are other 
months where sales are significantly higher in the later year, in others theyre considerably 
lower. Nor does evidence appear to have been provided to Aviva to counter the loss 
adjusters view that the increases which did take place were due to one off contracts rather 
than representing an ongoing trend. 
And, as Ive already explained, it is for the insured to show it has a valid claim under the 
policy (which includes providing evidence in support of its loss). In this case Avivas loss 
adjuster wasnt satisfied it had demonstrated a loss in excess of the amount Aviva had 
already paid out. For the reasons Ive explained I dont think it was unreasonable of Aviva to 
rely on his opinion in declining to make further payments to G. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask G to accept or reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman