DRN-3868601
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt properly investigate or 
explain why some failed transactions cant be seen on his account. He would like  a full 
explanation, an admission of wrongdoing, an apology and compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Ks frustration. As I understand it  transactions to two merchants, one 
of whom  Mr K had successfully made payments to before, and another merchant 
were declined. Halifax apologised in its final response letter dated 13 June 2022 that 
its staff told Mr K it had no record of the transactions to the merchant he had 
successfully paid before. This was incorrect but Halifax apologised and paid £75 
compensation which I think was appropriate in the circumstances. I understand 
payment declined as the merchant wasnt set up for the correct fraud prevention 
measures.
In this same final response letter Halifax apologised  that it hadnt initially responded 
to Mr Ks question about the second merchant to whom transactions failed. It 
explained it had reviewed Mr Ks account and couldnt see any transactions linked to 
that merchant. Having looked at the account information neither can I. Halifax 
suggested this may have been an error on the merchants part. I appreciate Mr K 
doesnt find that to be an acceptable answer, but I dont agree with him. Sometimes 
its just not possible to give the clarity wanted. If Halifax has no record of transactions 
to this second merchant , then I think it is limited as to what information it can 
provide. And I think its suggestion of merchant error isnt an unreasonable one.
I appreciate Mr K doesnt feel he has had full answers to four specific queries, but I 
dont agree with that . Point 1 - Halifax hasnt told Mr K what merchants need to do to 
set themselves up for fraud prevention measures. It may not be appropriate for 
Halifax to share such information with consumers; however, Halifax did give Mr K a 
link to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website for more information on Strong 
Customer Identification Regulations as its these regulations that require payments to 
be submitted using the correct fraud prevention measures. Points 2-3  why Mr K 
was able to make a payment in the past to one merchant but a second one failed 
was addressed in Halifaxs final response letter dated 13 June 2022  it felt the issue 
was likely to do with the merchants systems. Mr K might not like or agree with that 
response, but Halifax has addressed the question. And if Halifax couldnt find an 
issue at its end its not an unreasonable conclusion for it to have come to . Finally 
point 4  why Halifax has no record of failed transactions  I have already covered 
this above.
In summary I do believe Halifax has provided sufficient information in response to Mr 
Ks complaint, it apologised in its final response letter and paid £75 compensation. I 
dont feel its appropriate to pay more compensation .There is inevitably some 
inconvenience and effort for both parties when complaints are made. But Mr K hasnt 
given me any information that leads me to feel that further compensation is 
appropriate in this case .
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman