DRN-4098864
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy because Sainsburys Bank Plc didnt uphold his chargeback claim and didnt 
investigate his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr H ordered a hot tub and paid a deposit of £200 using a credit card. He paid 
the balance in May 2022 using his Sainsburys credit card. The hot tub was delivered in May 
2022.
Mr H wasnt happy with the condition of the hot tub and contacted the merchant. The 
merchant visited Mr H to replace the tub but found the existing hot tub to be in satisfactory 
condition. Following a conversation with Mr H, the merchant collected the hot tub and offered 
to refund £4529.00, being the purchase price less £500 costs of return.
Mr H contacted Sainsburys and raised a chargeback claim for a partial refund. Sainsburys 
reviewed the claim and declined it on the grounds that the merchants terms and conditions 
stated that the costs of return were to be borne by the customer.
Mr H wasnt happy with the chargeback decision and was unhappy that Sainsburys hadnt 
considered his claim under section 75.
Sainsburys acknowledged that there had been some service failings in the time it had taken 
to deal with the claim. It offered Mr H compensation of £125 in recognition of the service 
failings but said it stood by its decision to decline the chargeback. Sainsburys said it hadnt 
raised a claim under section 75 because Mr H hadnt provided sufficient information and 
documentation to support and raise a claim under section 75.
Mr H remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that although Mr H had said that the 
goods werent of satisfactory quality, he hadnt seen any evidence to support this. The 
investigator said that the purchase price of the goods had been refunded less the delivery 
costs, which was in line with the merchants terms and conditions. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said he purchased the hot tub as new but when he received it, he 
could see that it was clearly second hand. He said the merchant had accepted this and had 
agreed to replace it, but then after months of delay the merchant refused to replace it and 
instead removed the hot tub. Mr H said that the letter hed received from Sainsburys led him 
to believe that it wouldnt help him and said that this made him feel compelled to accept the 
offer from the merchant.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When dealing with chargebacks, banks and providers of credit need to do so within the remit 
of the rules set by the relevant card scheme.
Chargebacks are a voluntary scheme. The card issuer checks the complaint against the 
possible chargeback reasons to see what sort of evidence is required and under what 
timescales. This is so it can decide whether or not it can make a successful claim for the 
customer. Card issuers dont have to submit claims and will only do so if they believe they 
have evidence which will back up a chargeback claim so it will be successful. This service 
expects card issuers to help if they can, but we dont expect them to raise a chargeback if 
there is little prospect of success. 
Ive looked at Mr Hs request to Sainsburys to raise a chargeback to see if it acted 
reasonably when it declined the chargeback.
Mr H has said that the hot tub wasnt of satisfactory quality. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that the hot tub had a fault or a defect. Nor have I seen any evidence that the 
merchant initially agreed that the hot tub wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Based on the information that was available to Sainsburys at this time, I dont think it acted 
unfairly by not upholding the chargeback claim. I dont think there was enough evidence to 
show that the hot tub wasnt of satisfactory quality, so I dont think the chargeback claim 
wouldve been successful.
I can see that Mr H received a refund from the merchant for the purchase price of the hot 
tub, less £500 for the costs of return. The merchants terms and conditions say that goods 
can be returned for any reasons within 14 days of receipt for a full refund or exchange, and 
that the costs of returning the goods shall be borne by the customer. So I cant say that the 
merchant has breached the contract here because it has acted in line with its terms and 
conditions.
Section 75
This service would expect a card issuer to consider whether there was a claim under section 
75 if it declines to process a chargeback. In this case, Mr H has said that Sainsburys wrote 
to him and told him that it couldnt help. He says that this letter implied that Sainsburys 
couldnt help with the chargeback or a claim under section 75. Mr H says this led him to 
accept the merchants offer.
Sainsburys has acknowledged that the letter it sent to Mr H declining his chargeback claim 
couldve been clearer. It has paid Mr H compensation of £125 in recognition of the service 
failings.
Ive thought about whether Sainsburys acted unfairly by not investigating the claim under 
section 75. I can see that Sainsburys requested further information from Mr H in November 
2022 as part of its initial consideration of a section 75 claim, but it didnt receive a response 
from Mr H. Because a section 75 claim requires evidence to show that theres been a breach 
of contract or a misrepresentation, I dont think it was unreasonable of Sainsburys to request 
further information from Mr H. 
In the absence of any evidence to show that theres been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation by the merchant, Im not persuaded that the outcome wouldve been any 
different had the section 75 claim been investigated. 
Taking everything into account, I havent seen anything to persuade me that Sainsburys 
acted unfairly when it declined the chargeback. The section 75 claim couldve been looked in 
to sooner, however, Im not persuaded that a section 75 claim wouldve been successful in this case. I think the compensation paid to Mr H for service failings is fair and reasonable. I 
wont be asking Sainsburys to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman