DRN-2050219
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy Santander UK Plc stopped paying interest on his Select current account
without telling him.
What happened
Mr L holds a sole and joint Select current account with Santander. This type of account pays 
interest subject to certain conditions. These conditions include, having at least two active 
direct debits on the account.
In June 2020, Mr L realised that he hadnt been receiving interest on his sole account since 
January 2019.  Mr L said Santander should have made him aware that interest was no 
longer accruing on the account, especially as he had more than two direct debits set up on 
his joint account, so he could have moved one of these. 
Mr L complained to Santander as he said hed still been paying the £5 monthly fee attached 
to this account, and he said one of the benefits was having an advisor. And since hed 
opened the account his eyesight had deteriorated, and he could no longer read his 
statements. He thinks Santanders adviser should have told him to move one of his direct 
debits to his sole account so he could continue qualifying for the interest. But they never told 
him that interest was no longer accruing on his sole Select account
Santander said Mr L hadnt been receiving interest on his account because he hadnt met
the criteria for this from January 2019, when he only had one active direct debit on his 
account. Santander also said whilst theyre able to alert customers of other aspects of their 
account by text message and email, they dont inform them when theyre missing out on 
interest. And an advisor would be able to answer any concerns brought to them by Mr L. 
They also said Mr L cancelled the direct debit for his sole account that had reduced the 
number to only one active direct debit before his visibility had diminished. But said, as a 
gesture of goodwill theyd refund Mr L the £5 monthly fee for each of the 17 months interest 
hadnt been paid and offered a further £30 compensation.
Mr L wasnt happy with Santanders response and thinks they should pay him the £26 per 
month interest he says hes owed from January 2019. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ls concerns. She said Santander had made the eligibility
criteria clear in Mr Ls bank statements and that the accounts terms and conditions didnt
say that Santander would contact customers to let them know they werent receiving interest.
Mr L disagreed. He said Santander should have helped him to manage his account in order 
to receive the interest especially as theyd continue to earn interest from the high balance he 
had on his account. He has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. For Mr Ls complaint I need to determine whether Santander has acted in line 
with their terms and conditions for this account. And whether I think they have been fair and 
reasonable in their dealings with him.
I can understand Mr Ls frustration as he has two Select accounts and enough direct debits if 
applied to each of them to satisfy the qualifying criteria for interest to be paid.  Mr L has also 
told us about the difficulty he has in seeing the information in his statements which Im sorry 
to hear about and I do sympathise with him. So, I can understand why hed be disappointed 
to find out he hadnt been earning interest on his account for several months.
Santander have provided a copy of the key facts document that is relevant to this
account. In this document, it explains that to qualify for the cash back and interest payments:
You must pay at least £500 into your Select Current Account every month to qualify for 
cashback and interest. This is not a calendar month, it is the monthly anniversary from the 
date you opened/transferred your account. The £500 minimum monthly payment does not 
include refunded amounts from your Santander Select Debit card or amounts transferred 
into the account from another Santander account in your name (including any joint 
accounts). Transfers in from a Santander Business Account do count towards the minimum 
£500 payment.
And
 You must also have at least two active Direct Debits set up on your account.
Mr Ls statement for his sole Select account (*1814) for December 2018 to January 2019, 
has a heading highlighted in a bold red, that shows how much interest has been accrued on 
the account for the current month and since opening. And for this statement period it shows 
no interest had been earned for this statement period. It also goes on to reaffirm:
Pay at least 500 GBP into your account each month and have at least 2 active Direct
Debits.
So, Im satisfied Santander had made clear the requirements needed to qualify for the 
interest to be paid and that Mr L would have had regular reminders in the bank statements of 
the requirements that needed to be met to earn interest.
Mr Ls understanding is that as he is paying a £5 monthly fee for his Select account, one of 
the benefits is that he would have an advisor, and that his advisor should have told him he 
was no longer receiving interest on his account. But as far as I can see, the terms of Mr Ls 
Select account dont provide him with a personal advisor, the monthly fee is more in respect 
of overdraft charges being applied. And I cant see that Santander ever said they would get 
in touch with Mr L in any month when interest wasnt earned. So, I think it would be Mr Ls 
responsibility to monitor his account to check he still qualifies for the benefits.
Mr L said hed moved a direct debit to his joint Select account and Santander should have 
advised him against doing this. But I think Mr L should have known the direct debits he had 
and in which accounts, so I cant hold Santander responsible for what Mr L did. And  as Ive explained above, I dont think Santander are obliged to proactively tell customers when they 
arent earning interest on their account.
Mr L has pointed out his difficulty in being able to see the details in his statements. But it 
wasnt until June 2020 that he made Santander aware of this, so I cant hold Santander 
responsible for only providing Mr Ls statements in the standard format. Santander has 
shown they offer other ways to make sure there is accessibility for their customers, this 
includes, large print, braille and audio compact disk. And I would expect Santander to 
arrange an alternative format for Mr L to help him, going forward to manage his accounts.
I understand Mr L is unhappy with the service he received from Santander in relation to his
complaint. However, I havent seen anything to persuade me that Santander have done
anything wrong or had treated him unfairly.
I know Mr L will be disappointed with this outcome but for the reasons set out above, I
dont uphold this complaint. Overall, Im satisfied that Santander acted fairly in the way they
applied the qualifying criteria to Mr Ls account. And its for Mr L to decide if he wants to 
accept Santanders gesture of goodwill offer.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman