DRN-4119062
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund two debit card transactions he said he 
didnt authorise. He wants the money refunded, plus interest. 
What happened
On 14 and 29 August 2021  two debit card transactions for £1,500 each left Mr Hs 
Santander account to a regulated firm of solicitors (who Ill refer to here as B). In December 
2021 Mr H raised a fraud claim with Santander disputing he authorised the payments to B. 
Santander declined the claim. It said the payments were not deemed fraudulent and Mr H 
had a pre-existing relationship with B. Mr H complained to Santander, but it maintained its 
position and suggested to Mr H that he take the matter up directly with B. 
Mr H brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our Investigator looked into things 
independently and didnt uphold the complaint. She found it was more likely than not Mr H 
had authorised the transactions. And she obtained confirmation from B that it had 
represented Mr H and invoiced him for £3,000 to cover legal expenses. 
Mr H didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He disputed that he had any 
links to B. Mr H also said he hadnt reported his debit card lost or stolen at the time, as he 
only found out about the disputed transactions in December 2021. He suggested this could 
be a case of identity theft and has since reported the matter to the police and Action Fraud. 
Mr H said there was no evidence to show he had authorised the payments. He said 
Santander had been unable to provide information on the IP address to show the payment 
was linked to him. And hed received no security notifications on his mobile phone about the 
payments - as he said he does with all other online payments he makes. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator  and for largely the 
same reasons. I realise this will be very disappointing for Mr H and Id like to assure him I 
havent taken this decision lightly. 
In doing so, Ive very carefully considered all the evidence provided. If I dont mention a 
particular point, its not because I havent considered it, but Ive focussed instead on what I 
believe to be important to the outcome of this complaint. 
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Santander would generally be required to 
refund any unauthorised transactions on Mr Hs account. Mr H disputes Santanders 
position that he did authorise the two August 2021 transactions and is holding him liable for 
them. So, Ive looked at all the evidence, and the wider surrounding circumstances, to 
decide, on balance, if Santander has acted reasonably here. 
Firstly, the evidence Ive seen shows that the correct debit card details were used to make 
the two transactions. But for a payment to be authorised, the customer needs also to have 
consented to the payment being made. 
It is helpful in cases like this to follow the money to help reach a view on whether a payment 
was likely to have been consented to by the customer. Both Santander and our Investigator 
established from B that Mr H was a client of theirs and that they had sent him an invoice in 
August 2021 for £3,000 for legal expenses. B has told us the invoice was marked as 
received with thanks.  This suggests to me the two £1,500 transactions were correctly 
processed.
Mr H has consistently argued that he has no relationship with B. But given the information 
provided by B  who confirmed the same date of birth and address for Mr H as we hold, 
and because the invoice amount matches the amount paid to B  I think, on balance, its 
more likely than not Mr H authorised the payments to settle an invoice sent to him from B in 
relation to legal work it carried out on his behalf. 
Mr H is adamant he didnt consent to the August 2021 transactions to B. And he questions 
why Santander has been unable to provide clear technical evidence that he did so. 
Santander has told us the transactions to B were made via a non-secure network and so it 
was unfortunately unable to identify the device used or the IP address. All Santander can 
confirm is that the payments were made online using Mr Hs debit card information. 
I can understand why Mr H believes the technical evidence Santander is relying on is 
inconclusive. But Im also mindful that IP addresses are not always an accurate indicator for 
where a person is located. I also have no reason to doubt Mr Hs point that he didnt get any 
security notifications about these payments on his mobile phone. However, that alone 
doesnt mean Mr H didnt authorise the payments.
Looking at the wider surrounding cicusmances, Mr H hasnt said his debit card was lost or 
stolen at the time of the transactions nor that his card details were compromised. But if that 
had been the case, and an unauthorised third party had access to Mr Hs card details to use 
fraudulently, theyd likely try to use the card multiple times and quickly, to get as much as 
they can. Whereas here, only two transactions were carried out about a week apart. I dont 
consider this to be indicative of the unauthorised use of a debit card. 
I fully understand Mr Hs strength of feeling here. But I must look at the evidence available to 
me  and based on that, I cant say Santander has acted unreasonably in holding Mr H liable 
for the two £1,500 payments. 
So, Im not going to tell Santander to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman