DRN-3358681
The complaint
Miss B and Mr L complain that Lloyds Bank PLC lent irresponsibly when it approved their 
loan application. Miss B and Mr L also complain that Lloyds advised they could renegotiate 
the interest rate once the loan was active.
What happened
In August 2011 Miss B and Mr L applied for a loan for £22,000 over 84 months. The loan 
application was made to consolidate other debts and fund some home improvements. In the 
application Miss B and Mr L gave details of their income and regular outgoings. Lloyds says 
it carried out a credit check and took information it found into consideration. 
Miss B and Mr L have told us branch staff advised they could renegotiate the interest rate 
during the loan term. The application was approved and the funds released. 
Miss B and Mr L have explained they struggled to maintain payments over the term and 
complained Lloyds lent irresponsibly. Lloyds issued a final response on 2 June 2021. Lloyds 
apologised as it found Miss B and Mr L had originally complained about irresponsible lending 
in 2014 but it had failed to respond. Lloyds paid Miss B and Mr L £150 to apologise for the 
delay. 
Lloyds didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly and didnt uphold the overall complaint. Miss B 
and Mr L referred their complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Lloyds had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take any further action. 
Miss B and Mr L asked to appeal so their complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Lloyds had to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure Miss B and Mr L could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. These 
affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The nature of 
whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various factors like: 
- The amount of credit;
- The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
- The duration of the agreement;
- The costs of the credit; and 
- The consumers individual circumstances. 
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. 
In this case, Lloyds took details of Miss B and Mr Ls income in the application. They also 
used outgoing figures for items like utilities, insurance, Council Tax, food and transport. In 
addition, Lloyds looked at Miss B and Mr Ls credit files. I understand the basis of the 
application was to consolidate other debts and fund some home improvements. Lloyds has 
provided details of its lending assessment that says the monthly payment was sustainable 
based on Miss B and Mr Ls disposable income. 
Businesses dont have to verify every piece of information a consumer provides in the 
application and theres no requirement to get proof of income or bank statements. Ive 
looked at the statements Miss B and Mr L have provided from the time. I note the income 
figures provided are broadly in line with what they said in the application. I havent seen 
anything that indicates the information Lloyds used in the application shouldve caused it to 
carry out further checks. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss B and Mr L but I havent found that Lloyds lent irresponsibly. The 
intention of the loan was to consolidate other debts and reduce Miss B and Mr Ls outgoings. 
In my view, the checks completed were proportionate to the application Miss B and Mr L 
made and Lloyds decision to approve the loan was reasonable.  
Miss B and Mr L have also complained that Lloyds told them it would be possible to 
renegotiate the interest rate during the term. Lloyds has advised the interest rate was fixed 
for the term of the loan as set out in the credit agreement. The credit agreement and 
associated terms sets out the basis for the loan. I understand my decision is likely to come 
as a disappointment for Miss B and Mr L but Im satisfied the interest rate applied to their 
loan was in line with the credit agreement. 
As Im satisfied Lloyds has dealt with Miss B and Mr Ls complaint fairly Im not telling it to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman