DRN-2648274
The complaint
Mr M complains that Premier Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on his
commercial vehicle insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr M had a van. Through an intermediary, Mr M took out an insurance policy for the year
from 10 August 2017. Premier was responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to 
Premier, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Premier responsible for their 
actions.
On about 7 June 2018, Mr M and a third party were involved in a road traffic incident.
In August 2018, Mr Ms policy with Premier expired and he took out a policy with a new
insurer. So  assuming that policy was for a year - it wouldve expired in August 2019.
On 16 September 2019, Mr M complained to Premier that it had settled the third partys
claim for about £3,000.00 without telling him. He said he hadnt told his new insurer about
the claim and it increased his premium by £250.00 when it found out.
After he complained in September 2019, Premier shouldve sent a final response within eight
weeks. Mr M first contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service in early October 2019. After
eight weeks expired without a final response, we started our investigation.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought that
Premier ought to have told Mr M that it had paid the third party claims. It didn't tell Mr M, and
this was poor service which caused him inconvenience. She recommended that Premier
should pay compensation of £100.00 to Mr M.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to Premier 27 January 2021. I summarise my findings:
Mr M mustve suffered upset on finding out that Premier hadnt given him at the 
relevant time the information that he felt he was entitled to know about the claim and 
its outcome.
Subject to any further information from Mr M or from Premier, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Premier Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr M £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Neither Mr M nor Premier has responded to the provisional decision. So I see no reason to 
change my view.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common practice for an insurer to treat a claim for payment under its policy as a fault
claim unless and until it recovers all its outlay. If liability is split 50/50 between the
policyholder and a third party, each insurer will recover half its outlay.
Most motor insurance policies contain terms allowing an insurer to decide whether to defend
or settle a third partys claim. In Mr Ms case, the Premier policy contained the following
term:
2. HANDLING THE CLAIM ON YOUR BEHALF
 Wecan take over and conduct in Your name :
 the defence or settlement of any claim...
That term meant that  on the issue of how to deal with a third partys claim  Premiers view
would prevail over Mr Ms. I dont consider such a term is unfair. But I will consider whether
Premier applied its policy term fairly in Mr Ms case.
Unlike a court, we dont hear evidence from all parties and witnesses to an accident and
decide the extent to which any of them is responsible for causing damage or injury.
The incident occurred on 7 June 2018. Ive seen a letter dated 15 June 2018 from Premier to
Mr M asking him to get in touch about an accident.
From its file I see that on 18 June 2018, Mr M contacted Premier. He reported that  on 7
June 2018 - he had been at a junction waiting to turn right from a minor road to a main road.
A car from the left gave way to allow him to proceed. As Mr M was turning right, the third
party hit him from the right. Mr M said the third party suffered a minor scuff.
From its file, I see that on 29 June 2018 Premier heard from the third partys insurer. I find it
fair to say that this could only have been about pursuing the third partys claim.
From its file I see that on about 26 July 2018, Mr M contacted Premier again. Mr M had
received Premiers renewal notice for the year from 10 August 2018. He was concerned that
this included the claim recorded as £800.00. I think its fair to say that Mr M realised that the
claim had increased the renewal premium.
Premier said that the third partys insurer had made contact so Premier was expecting a
claim. It said £800.00 was its standard reserve for meeting a claim. Premiers note includes
the following:
PH asked what he needs to put on his renewal - advised fault, disallow.
From that, I find that Premier had told Mr M that he should disclose a fault claim which would
count against his no claims discount.
I dont know what questions Mr Ms new insurer asked him. And I dont know what questions
his wifes insurer asked her when she sought cover including him as a named driver. But
almost all insurers ask questions about accidents or claims.
So I find it more likely than not that his new insurer had asked Mr M about accidents or
claims. In any event, it was only about two months since the accident in June 2018 and only
a matter of days since the call on 26 July 2018. So Mr M shouldve told his new insurer
about the accident. I think it was his decision not to do so. I dont hold Premier responsiblefor that.
The third partys insurer agreed to pay for repair of the third partys vehicle. Meanwhile the
third party had a hire vehicle on credit. From Premiers file, I see that the credit hire company
contacted Premier on 13 August 2018 and the hire period started that day. So Premier
couldnt have provided any information about the final invoice for the hire and repair before
Mr M started the new policy on 10 August 2018.
The hire lasted for nine days and the hire company asked Premier to pay over £1,000.00.
The third partys insurer contacted Premier to claim just over £2,000.00.
From Mr Ms report of the incident, Premier decided that  rather than incur the cost and risk
of losing a court case  it would settle those claims.
Im satisfied that Premier had done a reasonable and proportionate investigation into the
accident and the amounts claimed. As Mr M had reported that he was turning out of a
junction and had scuffed the third party vehicle, Im satisfied that Premier made a reasonable
decision. And I dont think there was anything that Mr M has said since that wouldve
changed the outcome.
Of course, Premier shouldve confirmed to Mr M at the time it had settled the claim. And it
didnt do that. That was a poor standard of service. But Mr M had taken out a new policy
before Premier reasonably in my view - settled the third partys claim. So I dont find that
Premier caused Mr M financial loss in the policy year from August 2018.
It was in September 2019 that Mr M complained to Premier that it had caused an additional
premium. So I find it likely that this was for the policy year from August 2019.
From what Premier told us in mid-February 2020, Mr Ms policy for the policy year from
August 2019 was again one under which Premier was responsible for dealing with claims.
But Mr Ms complaint wasnt that his new insurer shouldnt have charged the additional
premium or that it was too high. His complaint was that, by settling the third partys claim
without telling him, Premier had caused his new insurer to charge the additional premium.
Ive found that Premier settled the third partys claim reasonably. And I accept Premiers
statement that it asked Mr M whether he had been involved in any accident in the previous
five years and he said he hadnt.
Im satisfied that it was the 2018 accident that caused Premier to charge the additional
premium. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Premier to reimburse Mr M for the
additional premium or any part of it.
I accept that Premiers failure to inform Mr M when it settled the claim caused him some
distress and inconvenience when he found out. Much of his distress and inconvenience was
caused by the additional premium  for which I havent found Premier at fault.
Putting things right
Nevertheless, Mr M mustve suffered upset on finding out that Premier hadnt given him at
the relevant time the information that he felt he was entitled to know about the claim and its
outcome. So I find it fair and reasonable to direct Premier to pay Mr M £100.00
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Premier Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr M £100.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman