DRN-2938025
The complaint
Mr J complains that Oxford Capital Partners LLP (Oxford Capital) gave misleading 
information about their Estate Planning Service (EPS) and failed in their governance of the 
EPS.
What happened
In January 2015 Mr J invested £80,000 with Oxford Capitals EPS, following advice from his 
independent financial adviser (IFA). The EPS was a discretionary management service likely 
to provide business property relief, enabling investors to claim inheritance tax relief after two 
years.
Mr J invested in the return strategy Portfolio G, targeting compound growth of 5% p.a. over 
the medium to long-term, investing in shares in one third-party holding company. The 
applicable investment memorandum (IM), dated January 2014, explained, amongst other 
things, that:
The Oxford Capital EPS will invest on your behalf in one or more unquoted trading 
companies which ultimately derive their income from portfolios of infrastructure assets
The current investment strategy was said to be focused on renewable energy and power 
generation assets and over time other assets would be incorporated into the portfolio. The 
underlying assets held by the holding company in which Mr J invested were connected to the 
energy sector and property construction.
Those acting on behalf of Mr J say he was content with performance up to 2018. But Oxford 
Capital misled Mr Js adviser in early July 2018 at a meeting, in which Oxford Capital said 
that the EPS was ahead of target returns.
In February 2019, Oxford Capital suspended the EPS in response to a problem with a plant 
for which the holding company had provided construction finance. Oxford Capital wrote to Mr 
J in April and May 2019, stating that work was still being undertaken to value the shares in 
the EPS. In or around January 2020, the EPS was transferred to a new investment manager. 
That provider valued the portfolio at £42,244.32 in March 2020, by which time Mr Js 
investment had almost halved in value.
Through his representative, Mr J complains that:
1. Oxford Capital misled Mr J and his adviser, in failing to provide information about 
suspension of the operation of the energy plant. Mr J says that had Oxford Capital 
been honest about the underlying failures he would not have remained invested;
2. Oxford Capital gave an incentive to invest and emphasised the urgency of investing, 
thereby pressurising Mr J;
3. Oxford Capital invested more than 10% of the total loans through the EPS in a single 
endeavour, facilitating over £16.7 million one project, thereby exposing Mr J to more 
risk. Mr Js representative says loans should have been limited to £3 million and no 
more than 10% of the total loan book value should have been associated to a single 
project;
4. Oxford Capital breached the investment discretionary mandate in failing to focus on 
capital preservation;
5. Oxford Capital failed to generate returns of between 3% to 5%;
6. Oxford capital manipulated communications and failed to present viable long-term 
proposition.
To put things right, Mr J seeks for Oxford Capital to take ownership of the investment and 
return the decrease in value.
Oxford Capital say:
EPS made several secured loans to energy firms, in line with the mandate;
Discounted fees were offered periodically, but no offers were in place at the time Mr J 
invested and there was no urgency to invest;
At the meeting in early July 2018 between Oxford Capital and Mr Js adviser 
information was shared about the EPS portfolios covering three investment holding 
companies. At that time all (save for one) were performing ahead of target. Oxford 
Capital deny that any guarantees were made about performance but accept it is 
possible that an expression of confidence in continued good performance of the 
portfolio was made;
Mr Js IFA made the recommendation to invest in one of the holding companies;
The IM, which included the Investment Management Agreement, set out the 
parameters of investment and set out high risk warnings;
Investments with the significant potential benefits of business relief-qualifying 
investments are required to have significant levels of risk;
No guarantees were given about the target return;
There was no limit on the amount EPS companies could invest in a single endeavour 
in the IM. The longer-term aim was to decrease exposure in any single investment to 
under 10%;
Further, there was no limit on the loans amounts in the IM;
Whilst there had been an issue with a plant operating company, which was in receipt 
of loans from EPS (to finance construction), as at July 2018 it was anticipated that 
any remediation works were covered under a warranty and a parent guarantee was 
in place. By October 2018, it became clear that the plant would be offline for longer 
and value of the asset was reduced. Oxford Capital advised investors of this at the 
time. It wasnt until February 2019 that it became clear the remedial works would not 
be undertaken as anticipated and at that point Oxford Capital suspended the fund as 
financing was judged to be impaired;
At the time of suspension, the loan represented only 14.5% of the investments held by the holding company in which Mr J had invested;
The solar and property construction investment fared well but and anaerobic 
digestion and reserve power investments underperformed due to a series of factors 
outside Oxford Capitals control, namely a change in legislation and regulations 
governing the energy sector, a reduction in wholesale energy prices, market 
saturation and operating difficulties;
It was unfortunate that many of the risks highlighted in the IM materialised;
Management of the EPS transferred to a third party with effect from 31 January 2020. 
Oxford Capital had no involvement in assessing indicative valuations after this time.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought Oxford Capital hadnt done anything 
wrong. There were no meeting notes from the time to show that false statements were made 
at the meeting in July 2018. Having reviewed the IM, our investigator thought that the 
investment strategy was explained along with the inherent high risk with this type of 
investment. The companies invested in and the strategies deployed, were in line with the 
information given in the IM and Oxford Capital explained the investment structure. Despite 
Mr Js adviser referring to limits or loans, there were no restrictions within the IM.
As to disclosure around the energy plant, our investigator thought that Oxford Capital were 
unaware that remedial works would not be covered under the warranty until after Mr J had 
invested. It wasnt until October 2018 that the extent of damage was known, at which point 
investors were advised that the equity value had reduced. 
Our investigator had no information about an incentive to invest and there was nothing to 
show that a timescale with a sense of urgency was being promoted.
Mr J, through his representative, disagrees with the view. It is said on his behalf that it is 
unfair not to accept that reassurances were made at the 2018 meeting, our investigator had 
not reached the right outcome on the investment mandate, high gearing was taken by 
Oxford Capital and the investment should have been liquidated once 5% concentration was 
reached. The representative again said Oxford Capital had failed to act line with the limits on 
permissions, excessive risks were taken, there was a failure to facilitate realistically 
anticipated returns and false communications. 
In response our investigator said the risks were explained and no evidence had been 
provided of a finding of wrongdoing by the regulator.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I think its helpful to explain that Mr Js IFA recommended investment into the 
EPS. To be clear this decision does not consider whether that recommendation was suitable 
for Mr Js attitude to risk, objectives and capacity for loss at the time. Any such complaint 
about suitability of the recommendation lies against the provider of that advice. The 
investment agreement, signed by Mr J, expressly stated that Oxford Capital were not 
responsible for the suitability of the investment as against Mr Js needs.Having read all the information provided, I hope Mr J wont take it as a discourtesy that I 
havent addressed every point raised. Ive concentrated my findings on what I consider to be 
the key factors in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. So, the focus of this decision is 
whether Oxford Capital provided clear, fair and not misleading information about the EPS 
and whether it was managed in line with the mandate during the period that Oxford Capital 
was responsible for managing the EPS.
Incentive
I havent seen any evidence that an incentive was offered to Mr J at the time he invested and 
Oxford Capital maintains that a fee discount was not offered at the time, albeit offers were 
made from time to time. Mr J and his representative havent pointed to anything to show that 
inappropriate time pressure was applied or that any complaint about pressure was raised at 
the time Mr J invested. 
Meeting July 2018
It is agreed that a meeting took place in early July between Mr Js IFA and Oxford Capital. 
On balance, I prefer Oxford Capitals assertion that the meeting was not specific to Mr Js 
potential investment but was a meet the manager meeting, at which all three holding 
companies were discussed. Despite the assertions made on behalf of Mr J, there is nothing 
from the adviser to show that the meeting was a due diligence exercise. Neither party have 
provided contemporaneous notes of what was discussed at the meeting, so Ive made my 
decision based on what I think is more likely than not to have happened. Im also mindful 
that memories can fade with time and these events took place almost four years ago. 
Oxford Capital have confirmed that at the time of the meeting the majority of investments 
were performing above target and theyve provided documents to support this. They accept 
that at this time confidence in the EPS was strong. Ive balanced this against the nature of 
these high-risk investments and the repeated risk warnings within the IM which was also 
available at the time. So, whilst I think it is likely that Oxford Capital broadly discussed past 
performance and their future expectations, I dont think its likely that any guarantees around 
future performance and returns were made. Its also important to note that Mr J had invested 
in 2015, so, theres also nothing to show that the meeting in July 2018 influenced his 
decision to invest.
Investment parameters, returns and risk
Mr Js representative has said that Oxford Capital exceeded the limits for investment in a 
single endeavour and the amount lent exceeded the limits set. Further it is said that Oxford 
Capital failed in its governance of the EPS because it failed to manage the EPS in line with 
capital preservation and failed to achieve the returns.
Ive reviewed both the IM and the due diligence pack for Q4 of 2017 (which was only sent to 
advisers and expressly state that the risks were set out in the IM). No restrictions were 
placed on the amount that any underlying holding company could lend and no restrictions 
applied as to the amount to be invested within a single investment. No evidence has been 
provided from Mr J or on his behalf to show that he was told any such limits applied. I have 
seen that information was later provided in reports about the average value of loans at the 
time of the reports, so it may be that there has been confusion on the part of the 
representative.
Ive also considered the investment strategy held out by Oxford Capital. The IM explained 
that the subscription would be invested in shares, which should qualify for business property 
relief. The IM also explained that investors could select investment options to meet their objectives. Seven different options were presented with an explanation as to each. Ive not 
seen anything to show that the options presented were misleading. 
Mr J invested in the return strategy, Portfolio G, which had the highest target aiming to 
achieve a return of 5% p.a. over the medium to long-term. No guarantee was given and this 
was expressly stated under the investment risks section that said, The value of your 
investment may go down as well as up and is not guaranteed. A company in your portfolio 
may fail resulting in its securities being sold for significantly less than the amount paid for 
them. Further, the performance of your investment, including the level of income 
generated, cannot be guaranteed. The target returns quoted represent the objective of the 
relevant strategy . .  The Important Note section at the beginning of the IM stated that 
Oxford Capital EPS,  . ... will invest in unquoted securities. Such investments can be more 
risky than investments in quoted securities or shares and market-makers may not be 
prepared to deal in them. Unquoted securities may be subject to transfer restrictions and 
may be difficult to sell. . . Investing in private companies may expose you to a significant risk 
of losing all the money invested.
The IM stated that subscriptions would be used to buy shares in one or more unquoted 
trading companies, generating revenue by a series of subsidiary companies. Mr Js 
subscription was invested in one holding company, which had a number of subsidiary 
companies, in line with information in the IM.  
The IM went on to explain that Oxford Capital would be appointed as the discretionary 
portfolio investment manager, which meant they would select the investments on Mr Js 
behalf. By investing in a holding company, Mr J would acquire an interest in all of the 
existing and future subsidiaries. Progressive diversification was anticipated over time, but 
the two forms of investment were companies that would own or provide loans to companies 
operating infrastructure assets capable of generating stable income streams. Oxford Capital 
gave examples of current investment in renewable energy and power generation but other 
assets were to be incorporated over time.
I havent seen anything that shows the holding company invested outside the typical 
activities of the holding companies listed above. Ive seen that investment was within the 
energy and property sector. The construction loan in respect of the energy plant was within 
this scope. Mr Js representative has complained that some assets were leveraged but there 
was nothing within the IM which prohibited holding companies or their subsidiaries using 
loans provided by third parties. 
Further, the April 2018 report also highlighted that an acquisition by the holding company 
was financed by raising long-term debt into a trading subsidiary. Theres nothing to show 
that any complaint was raised about this at the time and it supports my view that Mr J and/or 
his adviser ought to have been aware of the use of debt by subsidiary companies.
The risk section in the IM also highlighted a number of other risks, including the potential for 
changes in legislation which might reduce tax benefits or changes to reliefs and allowances 
which might make underlying investments more difficult to sell. Changes in wholesale energy 
prices could also affect returns. Further business property relief qualification was not 
guaranteed. Also, it was highlighted that underlying investments may operate in a common 
industry or sector, which may increase the level of investment risk.
On balance, I am satisfied from the information provided that Oxford Capital provided clear, 
fair and not misleading information about the investment and I think the risks were fairly 
highlighted. Im not persuaded that Mr J has shown otherwise. Im satisfied that Oxford 
Capital made a distinction between investment strategy with a target return and the inherent 
high-risk nature of this investment. And as Ive said whether this level of risk and this particular investment was suitable for Mr Js needs, isnt something Im considering within 
this decision.
Its unfortunate that a number of the risk factors identified in the IM materialised which 
resulted in underperformance of the holding company, but it doesnt follow that Oxford 
Capital did anything wrong. The changes to legislation and falling energy prices were 
matters outside their control as were the events with the construction loan.
Information about the energy plant
First, I think its important to put into context that the loan formed part of the investments held 
by the holding company. At the time the fund was suspended the loan represented 14.5% of 
the investments made by the company Mr J held shares in. The failure of the loan was one 
of several factors, which led to underperformance. Im also mindful that it isnt fair and 
reasonable to make an assessment with benefit of hindsight, so Ive considered the 
information available at the time Mr J invested. At the time Mr J invested in 2015, there was 
no issue with the energy plant.
Those acting on behalf of Mr J have said that Oxford Capital failed to disclose an increased 
inherent risk as they hid the reality of the situation. Ive balanced that against the clear risk 
warnings in the IM in respect of the portfolio, set out above. Further, Ive considered the 
sequence of events below.
On balance on the basis of the information provided by the parties, I think it is more likely 
than not that Oxford Capital reasonably believed the plant would only be shut temporarily as 
at July 2018, when a meeting took place. They believed any remedial works were covered 
under a warranty. At that time, it wasnt unreasonable to conclude that any interest payments 
due, would be repaid once the plant became operational. It was only later that the extent of 
the problems became clearer, which is supported by the information in the accounts of one 
of the subsidiary companies. Even if information had been shared in July 2018, as Oxford 
Capital took the view that the loan remained secure at that time, I cant fairly say now that  
Mr J would have acted differently.
Once Oxford Capital became aware of the extent of the problem, they relayed information 
about the revaluation of the asset in early 2019. The subsequent failure of the guarantee 
was a matter outside Oxford Capitals control and it was for them to take such steps as 
seemed fit as discretionary manager. Suspending the EPS wasnt outside the range of 
reasonable responses and it was open Oxford Capital to exercise their commercial judgment 
as they saw fit.
I dont underestimate Mr Js strength of feeling at sustaining losses and I am sorry to 
disappoint him, but in light of my findings, I am not upholding this complaint, so I wont be 
asking Oxford Capital to do anything more.
My final decision
I am sorry to disappoint Mr J but for the reasons given above, I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman