DRN-3168361
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage account with Barclays Bank UK PLC which is in the joint 
names of Mr C and Mrs T, who are now estranged. Mr C has dealt with the complaint 
throughout, with the consent of Mrs T.
Mr C is unhappy that Barclays has declined to extend the term of the interest-only mortgage 
(which expired in August 2019) on the basis of the mortgage being transferred into his sole 
name. 
To settle the complaint, Mr C wants Barclays to agree to a term extension and to remove 
Mrs T from the mortgage. Mrs T also wants to be removed from the mortgage.
What happened
The events giving rise to the complaint are set out in detail in the correspondence between 
our investigator, Mr C and Mrs T and Barclays, so I wont repeat all the details here. Our 
decisions are published and so its important that I dont include any information that might 
lead to Mr C or Mrs T being identified.
Briefly, Mr C and Mrs T have a mortgage with Barclays, which expired in August 2019. There 
is approximately £670,000 outstanding on the mortgage, on an interest-only basis. Other 
than a sale of the property, there is no other repayment vehicle. Barclays declined to extend 
the mortgage term because it considered it to be unaffordable in Mr Cs sole name. Mr C 
thinks this is unfair and says he has sufficient income to support the mortgage in his sole 
name. 
An investigator considered the complaint. Initially she wasnt persuaded that Barclays had 
given fair consideration to the term extension request, and so she upheld the complaint. She 
asked Barclays to give fair consideration to an application to extend the mortgage term in 
Mr Cs sole name, and to pay Mr C and Mrs T £250 compensation.
In response, Barclays provided internal documents showing the affordability assessment it 
had carried out and which led to Mr Cs request being declined. In the circumstances, the 
investigator reviewed the complaint and thought Barclays had considered the request fairly, 
and so didnt recommend the complaint should succeed.
Mr C asked for an ombudsman to review the investigators findings, saying that she had 
incorrectly thought the application was for an extension on a capital repayment basis, 
whereas he wanted it on an interest-only basis. Mr C maintains that Barclays hasnt been 
reasonable in the way its dealt with his request and that its decision to decline a term 
extension is unfair, particularly as he says he has more than sufficient income to support the 
payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Mrs T are no longer together, and have reached an agreement about what is to 
happen to their former marital home, with Mr C staying in the property and taking over the 
mortgage. The court has, I am told, endorsed this agreement and embodied it in a Consent 
Order. But this is not binding on Barclays and the bank is under no obligation to remove 
Mrs T from the mortgage, even though that is what both she and Mr C want to happen.
Barclays lending policy is a matter for its own commercial judgement, and I dont have the 
power to substitute my own lending decision for that of the bank. However, Id expect the 
bank to consider requests and applications on their own individual merits and to take 
account of individual circumstances  and to consider making exceptions where appropriate, 
in line with the banks regulatory obligations.
Ill begin by explaining that there are regulations that have flowed from the FCAs Mortgage 
Market Review (MMR) which took place after the financial crash in 2008. This has led to a 
series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are 
regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter lending 
assessments, aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more 
responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old rules but not 
under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. The rules are contained 
in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB 11.6.3, says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a 
borrower wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional borrowing 
(other than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage that affect its 
affordability
There are also transitional arrangements, particularly MCOB 11.7.1, which says that a lender 
need not carry out an affordability assessment if: 
the borrower has an existing mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is applying to 
vary that mortgage or replace it with a new one;  
the application wouldnt involve any additional borrowing except for essential repairs to 
the property, or to add product fees to the balance; 
theres been no further borrowing (with some exceptions) since 26 April 2014; and  
the proposed transaction is in the borrowers best interests. 
So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage takes 
place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the lender decides 
to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a reason to decline an 
application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the customers best interests. 
But the lender can take the assessment into account as part of its consideration of best 
interests.
In this case, there are material changes to the affordability of the mortgage, because there is 
a request to remove Mrs T from the mortgage, and for the mortgage to be switched to capital 
repayment. But the provisions of MCOB 11.7.1 dont say that Barclays isnt required to carry out an affordability assessment, only that it doesnt have to, provided it thinks the new 
mortgage is in Mr C and Mrs Ts best interests.
Ive thought about whether the transaction would be in Mr C and Mrs Ts best interests. 
Clearly, in order to effect a clean break between them, it would be desirable for Mrs T to be 
removed from the mortgage. But I think it was legitimate for Barclays to have concerns about 
the affordability of what it was being asked to do in the light of the information provided to the 
bank about Mr Cs financial position.
Barclays did carry out an affordability assessment, but Mr C didnt meet Barclays 
affordability criteria. I am entitled to treat the information provided by the bank about this in 
confidence because it relates to Barclays lending criteria and so is not something I am able 
to disclose to Mr C. Banks are entitled to keep their lending criteria confidential because if 
they were made public, borrowers who didnt meet lending criteria could temporarily 
manipulate their finances in order to qualify for a mortgage they would otherwise not be 
eligible for. I must emphasise here that I do not include either Mr C or Mrs T in that category, 
but this is a valid reason why lending criteria is commercially sensitive information and must 
remain confidential.
Initially the original repayment strategy for the interest-only mortgage was sale of the 
property. Mr C does not, however, want to sell the property and so effectively has no 
repayment vehicle for an interest-only mortgage. I also note from the banks internal 
documents that the application was to proceed in Mr Cs sole name on a capital repayment 
basis because he wanted to remain in the property rather than sell it to pay off the mortgage. 
Switching from interest-only to capital repayment is a material change which has an impact 
on affordability.
Although Mr C says his earnings are approximately £10,000 per month, this was not borne 
out by the information provided to Barclays by Mr C, his accountants or records held at 
Companies House. In the circumstances, given that Mr C wanted the mortgage in his sole 
name, and on a capital repayment basis, I think it was reasonable for Barclays to carry out 
an affordability assessment.
Overall, Im not persuaded Barclays has acted unfairly, given that Mr C and Mrs T were 
asking the bank to take on additional risk  removing one borrower and changing the 
mortgage to capital repayment  in circumstances where Mr C didnt meet the banks 
affordability criteria. As I have said above, even though the regulations give Barclays 
discretion to waive an affordability assessment, Barclays is still allowed to consider the 
affordability of the request.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr C and Mrs T wanted. I note Mr C wants time to arrange 
alternative finance, and I think this is reasonable, as it will take some time to put a new 
mortgage in place. Barclays should allow Mr C a reasonable amount of time, say, three 
months from the date of this decision, to pay off the mortgage, before it decides to take any 
action to recover the outstanding balance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman