DRN-1690917
The complaint
Mr H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly declined his 
claim for damage to a motor vehicle under his marine insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H arranged for his vehicle to be shipped from the UK to Australia by a shipping company 
(Company A). It was collected in January 2019 and delivered in March 2019.
Following collection, Mr H noticed an issue with the vehicles suspension, causing it to sit an 
inch lower on one side. He said this was due to Company As method of strapping the 
webbing to the leaf springs on the vehicle instead of the wheels.
RSA didnt agree, saying its own motor engineer had reviewed Mr Hs photos and supporting 
evidence and concluded it would be extremely unlikely for the damage to the suspension to 
be caused by the way the vehicle was secured. 
RSA also said it seemed more likely that the cause of the damage was due to Mr H loading 
his vehicle to near full capacity. It said overall the onus sat with Mr H to prove he had a valid 
claim and said it would reconsider its position if he provided any expert evidence to show the 
method of securing the vehicle had caused the damage.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said RSA had acted fairly in relying on the 
opinion of a motor engineer to decline the claim, and by remaining open to consider further 
evidence. And he said he wasnt persuaded, based on the evidence provided, that the 
damage was caused by the method of securing as Mr H had alleged.
Mr H didnt agree, so the case has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions on this complaint as our investigator.
Mr H says he paid Company A to ship his vehicle using a particular method. But instead it 
used a different method of securing his vehicle. Within this decision I have only considered 
RSAs actions in considering and declining his insurance claim. This means I wont be 
commenting on any separate complaint Mr H may have with Company A.
Mr Hs insurance policy covers his insured property in the event of physical loss or damage 
subject to certain conditions and exclusions. In an insurance claim of this nature, the first 
step is for a policyholder to prove they have a claim and that an event covered under the 
policy has occurred.
 
RSA hasnt disputed that there is damage to the vehicle  simply that Mr H hasnt proven 
that this damage was caused by the method of securing it as he alleges and therefore, he 
hasnt shown there has been an insured peril. 
Ive carefully considered all of the evidence Mr H submitted to RSA in support of his claim, 
including a quote from a garage for suspension repairs and his own comments and 
submissions hes made to our service. From what Ive seen, despite RSAs request, Mr H 
hasnt provided an independent expert opinion to demonstrate the cause of the damage. The 
garage quote hes provided shows the cost to supply and fit suspension components but 
doesnt provide any opinion on the likely cause of the damage. 
Mr H has also provided dashcam footage of the unloading of the vehicle alongside photos 
and other commentary. Ive reviewed all of this and dont agree it demonstrates the cause of 
the damage Mr H has claimed for as he has suggested.
RSA has passed on all the evidence Mr H supplied to one of its motor engineers for their 
comment. The engineer was clear in saying the method of securing the vehicle wouldnt 
have caused the damage in question. Instead they said it was more likely the load the 
vehicle was carrying was the main reason for the failure of the spring. And that the straps 
used to secure the vehicle would be tight but wouldnt expect the strain on the springs to be 
significant enough to have a lasting effect.
Mr H has said these comments do not amount to a report and that the engineers 
qualifications are unknown. But this doesnt change my mind. I say this as Im satisfied RSA 
has considered the evidence from one of its experts in that field, and relied on that opinion, 
while taking everything provided into account. I would add I wouldnt expect insurers to 
provide full technical reports in every case, and this will depend on the circumstances. 
Mr H has made reference to his own qualifications and knowledge when putting his opinion 
forward. And while Ive considered his perspective, Im not persuaded it outweighs the 
evidence or opinions Ive outlined above. In short, Im satisfied RSA has fairly declined this 
claim based on the evidence it was provided with. RSA has said it is willing to reconsider this 
claim in light of any expert evidence Mr H can provide on the cause of damage, and I 
consider this to be fair and reasonable. It follows Im not asking RSA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman