DRN-3170609
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) incorrectly 
updated his motor insurance policy.
References to Mrs D, or Mr D, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of Hastings involved throughout the claim but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Hastings.
 
What happened
Mr D held a motor insurance policy with Hastings. He contacted Hastings in June 2021 to 
add his wifes car to his insurance and make it a multi-car policy. He paid an additional 
£27.94 for this change.
When Mr D checked his updated insurance documents, he noticed that instead of adding 
Mrs Ds car to his policy, Hastings had replaced his car with hers, meaning his car was 
uninsured.
Mr D contacted Hastings by phone the following day to inform them of its error and it set the 
multi-car policy up. It refunded the £27.94 that he had already paid, and he then paid a 
further £250, to change the policy to a multi-car policy.
Due to administration errors by Hastings, the payment of £250 Mr D made for the multi-car 
policy was refunded to him. This triggered an automated letter to him to say that a payment 
was outstanding. In this letter it warned him his policy would be cancelled if the payment 
wasn't made. 
Mr D had to call Hastings again to sort the issue out and to make the £250 payment again. 
He also made a complaint. 
Hastings agreed they had made an error and made a compensation payment of £100 for the 
poor experience Mr D had when changing his motor insurance policy.
Mr D is unhappy with the amount of compensation Hastings offered and that it told them it 
had closed the complaint.
As Mr and Mrs D werent happy with Hastings, they brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He looked into the case and did not think that the 
compensation payment of £100 was enough in the circumstances and said that a further 
£150 should be paid to Mr D by Hastings.
As Hastings are unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me 
for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The issues caused by Hastings were 
Mr Ds Policy was not updated to a multi car policy as requested  meaning his car was 
uninsured for up to one day. 
The payment made by Mr D for his multi-car insurance policy was not allocated to the 
policy and instead was refunded back to Mr D.
A letter was sent to Mr D requesting payment and notifying him of potential upcoming 
cancellation of policy due to non-payment. 
It did not call back Mr D, as agreed, after he had called them to sort out the payment 
issue.
Hastings have accepted that these mistakes were made and made an offer of £100 
compensation. After the initial error in not updating the policy to a multi-car policy was made, 
it explained that the payment errors had been caused mainly by its internal automated 
systems. 
I cannot see how Mr D could have done anything any differently than he did. The cause of 
the issues are with Hastings entirely.
Hastings agree its overall service was poor and there were definitely elements that should 
have been done better. But it feels the further compensation our investigator feels 
appropriate is disproportionate to the events that actually happened and is not reasonable.
I think if Mr D had not been on top of the situation and if he had not been proactive in 
contacting Hastings that the mistakes would have taken longer to be found. The implications 
and consequences could well have been bigger for Mr and Mrs D, however we are unable to 
compensate for scenarios that may happen, only for what happened.
The impact of the mistakes made by Hastings meant that Mr D had been uninsured on his 
car for a short period of time (less than one day). He was also inconvenienced by the 
number of times he had to proactively contact Hastings in reaction to its further mistakes. 
Mistakes which were made by Hastings when trying to resolve its initial mistake.  
Mr and Mrs D said that the number of issues and poor customer service received resulted in 
stress and inconvenience to them both. After consideration of all the information provided, I 
think that due to the number of different mistakes made by Hastings, listed above, the £100 
it has awarded should be increased. 
Therefore, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and I agree with our investigators view that a further 
£150 should be paid for the inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs D. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Hastings Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr D a further £150 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman