DRN-4267631
The complaint
Mr J complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt with a claim 
he made on his motor insurance policy following a non-fault accident.
What happened
Mr J has a comprehensive motor insurance policy with RSA. 
Unfortunately Mr J was involved in an accident. He says it was a low-impact collision and the 
other car pulled out in front of him. Mr J reported the matter to his insurer.  
RSA accepted Mr Js claim  and explained the car was considered a total loss. So it said it 
would provide a cash settlement to him. RSA offered Mr J an amount of £1,800.  
Mr J is unhappy he wasnt provided with a courtesy car following the accident, his car wasnt 
recovered and says there were delays in dealing with his claim. 
Mr J says he wasnt recompensed for the recovery of his vehicle, or the failure to provide a 
courtesy car, and RSA failed to pay compensation for suspending his policy.  
Mr J wasnt happy with the service he received so he complained to RSA. RSA said when it 
decided how to deal with Mr Js vehicle it compared the cars market value, using industry 
accepted guides, against what the repair costs were likely to be. RSA said the cost of 
repairing the vehicle would have exceeded its market value and so it was deemed a total 
loss. RSA said Mr J elected to keep his vehicle whilst private repairs were carried out. RSA 
accepted it failed to notify Mr J that his insurance had been reinstated and apologised. RSA 
accepted it should have provided Mr J with a courtesy car from the date he reported the 
accident on 8 November 2022 until 24 November 2022. So RSA awarded Mr J £160 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him. It also paid £192 for the loss of use of the 
courtesy car. 
Mr J wasnt satisfied with the response from RSA so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into things for him. She thought RSA had acted within the 
terms and conditions of the policy and thought the settlement RSA had offered was fair. The 
investigator said Mr Js policy explained it would base any cash settlement on the market 
value of the car. Having checked the relevant trade guides, which provide details of market 
values, she felt the amount offered was fair  and was based on an average of the ones she 
found. So she didnt think RSA needed to take any further action. 
Mr J didnt agree. He said he believed RSA had assumed the mileage of his car for the 
valuation. He also felt he should receive more compensation. Because Mr J didnt agree his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say that the insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly.  
Recovery of vehicle
RSA has accepted there was a miscommunication over the recovery of Mr Js car, the facts 
of which are not in dispute so I wont repeat them here. RSA acknowledges Mr J couldve 
been provided with a better service. And it apologised for Mr Js car not being recovered. 
Mr J asked his neighbour to help him recover his car. And paid him £60 to move his car  of 
a mile to his home. Mr J wants RSA to reimburse him for this amount. But Mr J could have 
asked RSA to recover the vehicle the following day and it wouldnt have cost him anything.
Mr J was put to a lot of inconvenience by what happened, and I appreciate the frustration 
and upset this caused him  he shouldve been able to reasonably expect his car to be 
collected when he was told it would be, and he wouldnt have expected the collection not to 
go ahead. Because of this, Im satisfied that compensation is due to Mr J in the 
circumstances and I will discuss this further below. 
Declaring the vehicle a total loss
Mr J complains that his car wasnt inspected by anyone at RSA before the decision was 
made to declare the vehicle a total loss. He explained some photographs of the damage 
were taken the following day. One of its in-house engineers considered those and decided 
that the car was uneconomical to repair and so it was a total loss.  This appears to be fair as 
RSA is entitled to do this under the terms of the policy. 
Its worth noting that RSAs engineers will have expertise in assessing the damage and 
value of cars. And it wouldnt be in RSAs interest to pay for the total loss of a car where it 
might be economical to repair it. And its particularly important in this case that RSA didnt 
pay too much to settle the claim as liability wasnt in dispute. That means RSA would try to 
reclaim its outlay  what its paid to settle the claim  from the other drivers insurer. And if 
the other insurer thought RSA had paid out more than it needed to in order to settle the claim 
then its likely the other drivers insurer would limit the amount it repaid to RSA to the cost of 
repairs rather than the full total loss settlement amount. So if RSA had any concerns about 
whether or not the car was economical to repair then it would be in its interest to have a full 
engineering report done. But where that wasnt in doubt then a full engineers estimate 
wouldnt be necessary. And there is no requirement for RSA to incur the costs of such an 
assessment. So I think it handled the matter fairly. 
For completeness I think it would help if I explain that when a car is considered a total loss, 
there are various categories it might fall into, from being so badly damaged it cant be used 
for parts to simply being uneconomical to repair. Mr J doesnt think the car should have been 
written off. But Ive seen the report from the engineer. He said the car is a category N total 
loss. But, whatever category it falls into, RSA is required to update a shared database with 
information so that any future prospective buyer can find out it has previously been deemed 
a total loss. 
In this case RSA has said the car is a category N total loss, which means its repairable and 
has not suffered any structural damage. As Ive said above, given the cost of repairs was 
significant and was in excess of the cars pre-accident market value I think RSA fairly 
considered it to be uneconomical to repair. As such its a total loss regardless of whether its 
repairable. And I think it was reasonable it did that. Total loss payment 
Ive reviewed Mr Js policy documents to see what his policy says about how any claims will 
be settled. And I can see his policy booklet does say that if Mr Js car is damaged it will 
settle a claim as follows; 
If your car is lost and never found, or if in our view, it cannot be economically repaired 
based on its market value we will pay either (a) the market value, or (b) the cost of a 
replacement new car. Should we choose to pay the market value or purchase a replacement 
new car, your car will become our property. 
Because Mr Js car was considered a total loss RSA decided to give Mr J a cash settlement 
for his car. So, as above, it would need to do this based on the market value of the car. The 
policy defines the term market value. It explained that this means the cost of replacing the 
vehicle with a car of the same make, model, specification, mileage, and age in a similar 
condition as the car was immediately before the loss or damage. 
So Ive needed to consider whether RSA has acted in line with these terms, and provided a 
fair settlement to Mr J, based on the market value of his car. 
RSA said the market value of Mr Js car was £1,800, and it arrived at this figure based on 
national trade guides. Ive looked at these trade guides too to see whether the offer RSA has 
made is in line with these guides or not. Ive done this because using motor trade guides is 
the accepted industry practice for valuing a car  they are based on nationwide research. 
Having done so, I can see that based on the make, model, year, mileage, and condition of 
Mr Js car RSA has provided an average settlement that the trade guides note. So I think the 
basis of RSAs cash settlement is fair. 
I have reviewed the claim notes and can see RSA discussed the claim with Mr J. The notes 
say Mr J wanted to retain his vehicle. So he was offered £1,800 for his car, less £288 for the 
salvage amount. And Mr J accepted this offer. So the car became RSAs property and Mr J 
needed to pay the salvage to retain it. And this is what happened. Had Mr J not wanted to 
keep his vehicle then the only option open to him would have been to accept the cash 
settlement offer, meaning he would have received £1,800 for his car but his car would have 
then belonged to RSA and he would have need to purchase another car with the settlement. 
Mr Js policy says once RSA has settled a total loss claim then the car becomes its property. 
And where a policyholder decides not to buy back the car its usual for an insurer to sell the 
car to a salvage agent. The salvage agent will then decide how it wants to dispose of the 
car. But, depending on the damage to the car, that doesnt necessarily mean the car will be 
physically scrapped. The salvage agent may decide to repair the car and sell it, sell it as it is 
for someone else to repair, break the car for parts or crush it. 
Mr J objects to paying the salvage fee since the car was owned by him. But this is standard 
practice in the industry. As explained above once the total loss settlement is paid the vehicle 
becomes the property of the insurer. If the customer wants to retain the vehicle, as is the 
case here, then they pay the insurer a salvage fee. The vehicle then belongs to the 
customer. 
Repairs
Mr J says the repairs to his vehicle should have been paid for by RSA under the terms of his 
comprehensive insurance policy. But RSA estimated the repair costs to be in excess of the 
vehicles value and so deemed it a total loss. When a car is deemed a total loss the insurer 
will pay a cash settlement for the vehicle. It wont then also pay for repairs to the car. Mr J wanted to keep his vehicle so he was paid the settlement minus the salvage fee. He 
was then able to repair the car himself and Im pleased the vehicle is now roadworthy. 
Courtesy car 
Mr Js policy provides for a hire car if he makes a claim on his policy for the duration of the 
repairs. The policy says if the car has been declared a total loss then the hire car wont be 
provided. 
RSA accept Mr J should have been provided with a hire car from the date the incident was 
reported to the date the car was deemed a total loss. So it made Mr J a loss-of-use payment. 
This was £12 for 16 days between 8 November 2022 and 23 November 2023 which totalled 
£192. And I think this is reasonable in the circumstances and in line with our approach.
Suspension of policy 
When Mr J decided to keep his car RSA suspended its cover to when the repairs were 
completed and Mr J could show the car had passed its MOT and was roadworthy. 
Unfortunately there was some delay in letting Mr J know the policy had been reinstated in 
writing but Mr J was told on the phone on 9 December 2023. So Im satisfied RSA acted 
fairly and promptly here. 
Customer service 
I can see that not everything went smoothly following Mr Js claim. In particular he had to call 
a number of times to get updates on his claim, his car wasnt recovered, and he wasnt 
provided with a courtesy car as per the terms of the policy. RSA accepted that in its 
response to Mr Js complaint and it paid Mr J £160 in compensation  which is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and in line with what I would have suggested had an offer 
not already been awarded.
I should explain that awards of compensation that this service can make arent intended to 
fine or punish a business. we can award fair compensation thats an appropriate reflection of 
the impact a businesss actions have had on its customer. 
I recognise Mr J feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my response. Mr J 
remains unhappy and believes RSA havent treated him fairly. But based on everything Ive 
seen I think RSA has done enough to put things right here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman