DRN-2564363
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained about their contents insurer Soteria Insurance Limited in 
respect of a policy it had set up for them when theyd only called it to make payments on 
another policy.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr and Mrs P became aware that they had two home contents policies in 
operation with Soteria. One Ill refer to as X, and one M. They also had a policy A which 
gave them cover for personal belongings such as jewellery and cameras.
In late June 2014 Mrs P had called Soteria to make a payment for premiums on X. But, at 
that time, X had been cancelled due to non-payment. Soterias call handler set up policy M. 
Theres no record of this call but policy documents were issued and Mrs P signed and sent 
back a direct debit form. A payment for X was then sent to Soteria and policy X, which 
Soteria says runs on a different system to M, was reinstated. Until the dual insurance was 
discovered in August 2020, both policies ran concurrently, with premium payments for both 
being taken.
  
When the dual cover was identified Mr and Mrs P felt Soteria must have acted deliberately in 
2014 to try and get rid of their old policy and swap them on to a new one. They said they had 
never spotted the different reference numbers on the documents and payment records 
Soteria had subsequently sent them. But they had never intended to start another policy  
and they certainly hadnt needed both. Soteria told Mr and Mrs P that a manager would call 
them, but this didnt happen.
Soteria acknowledged that, in the main, X and M gave Mr and Mrs P dual insurance. But it 
noted that high value home entertainment equipment had been specified on M in 2014 which 
X did not offer cover for. Soteria initially cancelled X and reimbursed the whole premium paid 
for it since June 2014. But when Mr and Mrs P said this was the policy they had wanted to 
keep, Soteria reinstated it, cancelled M and reimbursed most of Ms premium. But it said it 
wouldnt reimburse the part that related to cover for the specified items, because those, it 
said, had not been dual insured. An apology was given for the missed manager call back.
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy. They felt this had all been engineered by Soteria. They 
said they had intended to add the high value items to A, not M. So any premium amount 
withheld should have been based on the cost of their cover on A. Soteria said that A would 
never have supported such items. Mr and Mrs P complained to us.
Our investigator didnt think Soteria had done anything wrong. She didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr and Mrs P asked for an ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded Soteria did anything wrong here. Its possible that a misunderstanding of 
some sort occurred when Mrs P called Soteria in 2014  but as a recording of the phone call 
is not available there is no way to know if this resulted from or was caused by a failing of 
Soteria. It may have been. But even if it were Mr and Mrs P had ample opportunity following 
this to spot that they now had two policies, providing similar cover, in place. 
Furthermore, once the issue was drawn to Soterias attention in 2020 it acted to cancel X 
and reimburse its cost. Strictly speaking, in line with good industry practice, Soteria could 
have kept both X and M active, refunding only half of the cost of each of them. Whilst 
I understand Mr and Mrs P wanted X keeping, I see Soteria responded to that concern by 
switching the cover over and refunding the outstanding difference.
Ive not seen anything that makes me think Mr and Mrs P tried to add their high value 
equipment to A. Given the comments Ive seen from Soterias underwriter, I think if they had 
theyd have been told this wasnt possible. As these items havent been covered elsewhere, 
and Im not persuaded they ended up on the M policy by any fault of Soteria, I think its 
reasonable that Soteria keeps the premium for them.  
I understand that not receiving a promised call back is frustrating. But I see that, following 
this, a complaint was logged and the matter did progress. Im satisfied that an apology for 
this poor level of service, on this occasion, is a fair and reasonable resolution.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Soteria Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman