DRN-3839889
The complaint
Ms F complains, via her relative, about poor handling and delays of her claim by her property 
insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc. I have just referred to Ms F throughout.
What happened
In August 2021 Ms F discovered an escape of water in her home and made a claim to AXA. 
AXA appointed agents to manage the claim, but Ms F said this was ineffective. AXA 
appointed contractors to access and fix the leak, dry out and scope the repairs. 
Ms F said AXAs handling of her claim wasted time and resource, and extended alternative 
accommodation twice. She said AXA didnt maintain communications with her or her relative, 
particularly in the absence of its case worker. She complained to AXA in December 2021.
AXA responded in January 2022 and apologised that its agents hadnt responded to Ms Fs 
communications. It said there had been unavoidable delays with the absence of contractors 
and with deliveries and materials. AXA also apologised for putting back the start of Ms Fs 
alternative accommodation, and paid her compensation totalling £200. 
Ms F didnt agree and brought her complaint to us. She said even after its acknowledgement 
of poor service there was little improvement in AXAs communications or claim handling until 
it concluded in June 2022. She said this caused her relative difficulties and extra travel costs 
to where she was staying and held up an operation. Ms F wants increased compensation to 
reflect the additional distress and lack of improvement in the claim handling.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as he said the £200 
compensation was in line with what he would award in these circumstances. He said there 
was no evidence of AXA delaying the claim, but it did miss its initial estimated completion 
date due to material and labour shortages. 
Ms F disagreed with the investigator saying a schedule of works wasnt completed, causing 
confusion as contactors didnt know who was responsible for cleaning kitchen surfaces after 
the tiled floor was removed. She said AXAs delays meant the claim lasted from August 2021 
to June 2022 when the original expectation was that it would finish around Christmas 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Ms F for the incident that damaged her home and the 10 months it took for 
this to be put right. Claims for escapes of water tend to involve quite a lot of damage with 
several parties involved and usually take several months to resolve. In her case, the time 
taken was extended by supply and personnel problems that followed the covid pandemic.  
Ms F complained to AXA on 7 December 2021, and AXA upheld this via its Final Response 
Letter on 24 January 2022. I can see from what Ms F has said that she considers the 
mismanagement and lack of communication to have continued after this and extended the 
length of claim. However, I am only able to consider the issues up until the date of AXAs 
final response. This is one of the rules we must follow in considering a complaint and 
ensures that a business has the opportunity to respond to a complaint first.
I am aware that Ms F has a further complaint with our service, and this covers the period 
after AXAs Final Response Letter. 
During the period of the claim I have reviewed, I can see a large number of emails from Ms 
Fs relative about the claim, but not many responses. I can see that this would have caused 
frustration and uncertainty about the progress of the claim and the specific issues raised. 
There were also conflicting messages about the start date for the repairs and the alternative 
accommodation and this was extended twice causing a delay of more than a month.
AXA was in the hands of its contractors concerning the date the repairs would start and this 
had to follow on from the drying out of the property. The contractors provided AXA with a 
costed schedule of work. 
Although I can see and appreciate the reasons for the delays, I think the lack of response to 
Ms Fs emails and calls was poor service. Im pleased AXA has apologised for this and 
offered compensation. I think for the period I have considered the £200 compensation AXA 
has offered is about right. I recommend that Ms F accepts the offer of compensation from 
AXA. However, if she doesnt accept this decision, it wont be binding, and she can pursue 
her complaint by other means. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman