DRN-2174721
The complaint
Mr C says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr C bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint because:
I think Lloyds made Mr C aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take
it. I say this because he did tick the box on the credit card application form to show 
that he wanted the cover. There was a box next to the one that Mr C ticked that he 
couldve completed if he hadnt wanted the cover. So I think Mr C wouldve realised 
he had a choice about buying the PPI.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C but it doesnt look as though it was unsuitable 
for him, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Even though Mr C 
says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer, the policy wouldve paid out in 
addition to his employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. So I think the 
policy wouldve provided a useful benefit for Mr C, despite his existing arrangements. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But its unlikely Mr C would have been affected by any of the main
things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information about the PPI wouldve 
stopped him buying it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman