DRN-4144954
The complaint
Mrs C complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure), then Guardian Financial Services, gave 
misinformation which led her to believe shed be entitled to a spousal annuity upon her late 
husband, Mr C, passing away. 
What happened
As the events are well known to both parties, Ill only set out what I think is key to reaching 
my decision here. 
In 2011, Mr C used the benefits in his personal pension plan to purchase a protected rights 
annuity. The statement of benefits named his then wife  as annuitant B. The accompanying 
annuity guide said that if annuitant B was Mr Cs spouse or civil partner at his retirement 
date, the pension will be paid to them if he died before them. And that annuitant B would 
always be entitled to the pension, even if Mr C remarried. 
In May 2016, ReAssure wrote to Mr C explaining the policy was set up on a named spouse 
basis, meaning it would pay his then wife if he died before her, even if they divorce. And that 
this cant be changed under the rules of the annuity. And, in July 2017, ReAssure wrote to 
Mr C again re-confirming this. 
In June 2018, Mr C asked ReAssure to amend the annuity to reflect that hed divorced his 
wife who was named on it and had married Mrs C. And, in response, on 2 July 2018, 
ReAssure responded with the same content as its previous letters, explaining why this 
wasnt possible. 
On 18 July 2018, Mr C disputed this and sent ReAssure information confirming his ex-wife 
had relinquished all rights to future his pension payments. And, in August 2018, it responded 
confirming 50% of the protected rights benefits will be payable to whoever Mr Cs married to 
when he passes away. And while it noted hed like the dependents pension to also be paid 
to his partner, it said it would require proof of financial dependency. 
In March 2022, Mr C sadly passed away, so Mrs C got in touch with ReAssure. And, in    
April 2022, it said a reduced income would be due to Mr Cs ex-wife, who was named as 
beneficiary on the policy.
Mrs C complained to ReAssure about this and that shed had to chase its response, which 
was sent to her neighbour as it didnt include her full house number. Mrs C says she spent 
time on the phone to it distraught, during the worst time of her life. And, in mid-April 2022, 
ReAssure wrote to Mrs C at the wrong house number again, acknowledging her complaint. 
At the start of June 2022, ReAssure told Mrs C she could make a financial dependency 
claim. And, following this, on 9 June 2022, ReAssure wrote to the wrong house number  
despite Mrs C having asked it to amend this on 22 April 2022  explaining that a survivors 
annuity or pension can be paid if, in the scheme administrators opinion, theres financial 
dependency. But that this is subject to their decision and success isnt guaranteed. 
On 9 June 2022, ReAssure also sent Mrs C its final response letter to her correct address. It 
apologised for the incorrect and misleading information in its August 2018 letter, as well as 
the confusion this caused Mrs C during a sensitive time. It explained though that the policy 
was taken out on the basis the spousal annuity was payable to the spouse named at the 
time. And that it had confirmed on other occasions that this cant be changed. ReAssure 
offered Mrs C £350 compensation for the impact of its error though. And it reiterated that 
while she could claim under dependency rules, the outcome wasnt guaranteed. 
In mid-June 2022, Mrs C told ReAssure that, in summary, she was still receiving letters to 
the wrong house and her neighbour wasnt happy with this, leading to a difficult conversation 
and time spent collecting these from a post office. Mrs C said that ReAssures August 2018 
letter misled her that shed be paid the annuity. And that she and Mr C married to ensure she 
would be his next of kin and to avoid situations such as this, which has caused her anxiety 
and upset, as well as inconvenience. Mrs C also said that suggesting she complete a 
dependents claim gave her false hope and meant she spent time explaining their 
circumstances, which ReAssure dismissed without reason. 
On 14 June 2022, ReAssure wrote to Mrs C increasing the total compensation it had offered 
her to £425, to take into account that it had written to her at the wrong address after shed 
clarified this with it. And, on 21 July 2022, ReAssure wrote to Mrs C explaining it wouldnt be 
able to pay her financial dependency claim, as the annuity terms mean the benefits remain 
payable to the spouse named when it was set up.  
In August 2022, Mrs C brought her complaint to our Service. One of our Investigators looked 
into it and said she wasnt asking ReAssure to do anything further. She said that while it had 
made errors, in particular it had incorrectly said the annuity would be payable to Mrs C, she 
felt £425 in total compensation was enough to make up for this.  
Mrs C didnt agree. She said, in summary, that the misinformation in August 2018 was a 
major error, which caused her shock and financial distress. And that we should listen to her 
calls with ReAssure, as she was told this was a serious matter that she should be 
compensated for. Mrs C clarified she doesnt dispute the wording of the annuity but feels that 
ReAssures misinformation about this and continued errors means it ought to do more. 
Mrs C also said the £425 it offered was for customer service and administration, rather than 
the August 2018 error. And that she still doesnt understand why ReAssure told her she 
could submit a financial dependency claim, which built her hopes and causing her stress.
 
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not asking ReAssure to do anything further, for largely the same 
reasons as our Investigator. Ill explain why. 
Mrs C doesnt dispute that policy wording says that Mr Cs wife named at the time the 
annuity was purchased would be entitled to his pension if he passed away, regardless of 
whether he remarried. And that ReAssure made an error in August 2018 when it instead said 
this would be payable to whoever he was married to at that time. So I havent considered 
this any further. 
Whats left for me to decide is whether ReAssure needs to do anything more to make up for 
the impact of this error on Mrs C. Ive taken into account that Mrs C was understandably upset and frustrated to learn 
ReAssure had made an error in its August 2018 letter to Mr C. And that Mrs C discovered 
this during an already difficult time for her.
 
I havent felt it necessary to listen to the calls Mrs C had with ReAssure about this to reach 
my decision though, as I dont doubt that it recognised to her that this was a significant error. 
And I think the customer service ReAssure provided Mrs C with could have been better at 
times, for example it didnt always call her back when it said it would. ReAssure also 
incorrectly addressed what appears to be three letters to Mrs C, even after shed raised this 
with it on one occasion. And, while Mrs C still received these, albeit with a bit of delay as a 
result, this understandably caused her frustration and inconvenience, particularly as shes 
said this led to difficult conversations with her neighbour.  
That being said, I can see ReAssure has recognised this and apologised. I note Mrs C hasnt 
suggested or evidenced that shed be in a different position now if not for ReAssures error in 
August 2018, for example that theyd have made other means of financial provision for her in 
place of the spouse annuity. And Ive also borne in mind that ReAssure had already told 
them on three occasions what the policy said before making this error. So, its reasonable to 
think that when Mrs C was more recently told again that the annuity wasnt payable to her 
she already had some understanding of why, I think lessening the impact of the error 
somewhat.  
While I recognise Mrs C also feels with hindsight that making a dependency claim was a 
hopeless task and that ReAssure falsely raised her expectations about this, I dont think it 
did anything wrong by telling her she could do so. This was another avenue for Mrs C to try, 
while already in the knowledge of what the policy said. And I can see ReAssure tried to set 
Mrs Cs expectations when it told her on a few occasions that a successful outcome wasnt 
guaranteed and was at the scheme administrators discretion.  
Mrs C has said the £425 ReAssure offered her was just for the customer service and 
address issues, but I can see from the final response letter that the £350 it initially offered 
was also to make up for the impact of its error in August 2018. And, in any case, Ive 
considered what I think is fair and reasonable compensation overall, in all the circumstances 
of this complaint. And, for the reasons given, I think the £425 in total compensation that 
ReAssure has already offered Mrs C is a fair and reasonable amount to make up for the 
considerable distress and inconvenience caused to her by this matter. Im not asking it to do 
anything more. 
My final decision
ReAssure Limited has already made an offer to pay Mrs C £425 in total compensation to 
settle the complaint and I think this is fair in all the circumstances. So, for the reasons Ive 
given, my final decision is that it should pay Mrs C this, if it hasnt already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman