DRN-2881273
The complaint
Mr I complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) failed to let him know 
when a third-party claim was made against his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr I was driving in poor weather conditions and accidentally hit a parked 
car. Mr I says the incident was minor and no damage was caused to either vehicle  and he 
took pictures to evidence this. Nevertheless, he called his insurer to inform it of what had 
happened. It sent Mr I an email later that day to let him know that it had logged the incident 
and that it would have to accept responsibility if the third-party got in touch. 
At the beginning of March, Admiral hadnt received any claims so sent Mr I a letter to say the 
claim had been closed and that it wouldnt affect his no claims bonus. It said the matter may 
be reopened if the third-party got back in touch. Mr I got in touch with Admiral and requested 
that it contact him as soon as possible if any claims were made by the third-party and before 
any action was taken.
Later in March the third-party got in touch with Admiral to make a claim against Mr Is policy. 
Admiral settled the claim on behalf of Mr I but failed to get in touch with him to let him know 
that a claim had been made. Mr I became aware of the claim when his policy came up for 
renewal and had to get in touch with Admiral to find out why a claim had been added to his 
policy documents. When Admiral let him know what had happened, Mr I raised a complaint.
Admiral acknowledged that it had made an error and should have got in touch with Mr I as it 
had agreed. But it said it was still able to consider his photographs, so it asked him to send 
them to it. Admiral acknowledged that it should have got in touch with Mr I and paid him 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him and a further £10 
for any call costs incurred in raising the matter.
In June 2020, Admiral received Mr Is photographs and asked the third-party insurer to send 
images so it could compare them. It chased these in July but only received the images from 
an independent engineer acting on behalf of the third-party in September 2020. Following 
the receipt of those images, Admiral requested to inspect Mr Is vehicle however as he had 
sold it by this time, that wasnt possible. So Admiral maintained its position regarding the 
claim made by the third-party. Mr I didnt agree with Admirals response and wanted the 
claim removed from his records. So he referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral had made 
a mistake in not contacting Mr I but that ultimately, under the terms of the policy, it was 
entitled to choose to settle the claim on Mr Is behalf. So she thought the £160 paid to Mr I 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr I didnt agree so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Having reviewed the contact notes, I can see that Admiral agreed it would contact Mr I if the 
third-party contacted it to make a claim. This was clearly written on Mr Is notes and I think 
Admiral should have followed his instructions in getting in touch with him, as he had 
requested. Admiral has already acknowledged that it should have done this and has offered 
him £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused and a further £10 for the 
calls he had to make in relation to this incident. While I appreciate that Mr I was shocked to 
find that there had been a claim made against his policy, I also think Admiral acted quickly in 
admitting its mistake and explaining what had happened. So while it seems clear that this did 
cause some distress to Mr I, I think the £150 already offered fairly reflects that.
Ive then considered whether, had Admiral contacted Mr I, it would have changed whether 
the claim was recorded against the policy. Mr I had photographs showing there was no 
visible damage to either car following his accident, so I can understand why he believes this 
would have made a difference to the outcome of the claim. However I dont think that was 
the case.
Mr I provided Admiral with a copy of the photographs he held after it had paid the claim. As 
the claim had been paid on a non-prejudice basis, Admiral explained that it could have 
requested the settlement amount back if it believed the photographs changed its position. So 
Admiral asked the third-party insurer for photographs of the third-party vehicle so it could 
compare the damage, which I think was a reasonable next step in order to investigate 
whether these images would change the outcome of the claim. Unfortunately it took a few 
months for Admiral to receive this evidence from the third-partys expert, but I dont think I 
can hold Admiral responsible for those delays as it was waiting for the expert acting on 
behalf of the third-party to provide evidence. And, once it did receive the images, Admiral 
was no longer able to inspect Mr Is vehicle as it had been sold. So ultimately Mr Is evidence 
didnt change Admirals position.
I have considered whether I think the position would have been different if Admiral had 
contacted Mr I straight away on receiving the claim. However, while Mr I would likely have 
provided the photographs sooner than he did, it still would have needed to wait for a 
response from the third-party. And given that Mr I had admitted he hit the third-party vehicle, 
the evidence it had and its later decision not to reclaim the settlement when it reviewed Mr 
Is photographs, I think its likely Admiral still would have reached a decision to settle the 
claim with the third-party. 
Mr Is policy with Admiral allowed it to settle the claim on Mr Is behalf. The agreement 
Admiral made with Mr I was to contact him when the claim was received, not to allow him to 
direct how the claim was settled or to prevent it settling the claim. So, the agreement 
between Mr I and Admiral doesnt change my decision that Admiral acted reasonably in 
choosing the settle the claim on behalf of Mr I in line with the policy terms.
While I realise Mr Is strength of feeling on this matter, based on the terms of the policy I 
think Admiral was entitled to decide on whether to settle the claim with the third-party. And 
as it did, it was entitled to record that a claim had been made. However, like the investigator, 
I think Admiral should have honoured its agreement to contact Mr I when the claim was 
made as it had agreed to. As it failed to do this or notify Mr I about the claim, I think it did 
cause some distress and inconvenience, However, Admiral has also recognised this and for 
the reasons outlined above, I think its offer of £160 compensation is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. So it follows that I wont be asking it to take any further action.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman