DRN-2267865
The complaint
Mr R complains that a car supplied to him by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) under a hire purchase agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In October 2014 Mr R entered into a three-year hire purchase agreement, under which 
MBFS would provide a cabriolet sports car with a folding metal roof. The agreement ran its 
course and, at the end of the hire period, Mr R made the final balloon payment and bought 
the car. 
In December 2019 Mr R contacted MBFS to say that the roof was leaking. This had been the 
case for a couple of years, but had by that time the leak reached the stage that he thought it 
should be rectified. 
Mr R arranged for the car to be inspected by the manufacturer. The manufacturer 
recommended that the front section of the roof be replaced with a glass or metal one. Mr R 
says he was told that the metal part of the roof no longer fitted the seals; this was a common 
problem, as the metal could buckle and change shape. He sought a quotation for the repair 
and was given a figure of some £10,000  roughly the value of the car. He complained to 
MBFS, as the supplier of the car. 
MBFS didnt accept that it was liable to fund the repair costs. It referred to the age of the car, 
its mileage and that it was no longer under warranty. Mr R referred the matter to this service, 
where one of our investigators considered it; he was however broadly in agreement with 
MBFS. Mr R asked that an ombudsman review the case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R acquired the car from MBFS with finance provided by it under a regulated consumer 
credit agreement. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the hire purchase agreement was to 
be read as including a term that the car would be of satisfactory quality. Goods are of 
satisfactory quality if they meet the quality a reasonable person would expect in all the 
circumstances. Those circumstances include, in the case of a car, price, age and mileage. 
Mr Rs car was just over two years old when he acquired it, with a recorded mileage of just 
over 19,000. The price attached to it was a little under £22,000. It was however a further five 
years before he reported any problem with the roof  although I note he says he had 
experienced some leaks before that. 
I can understand why Mr R feels that the car isnt of satisfactory quality. Hes explained that 
he expected to be told that the roof seals would need to be replaced, not that he would need 
a new roof at a price close to the value of the car. Hes also referred to customer forums 
indicating that a number of people have experienced the same problem. Hes said too that 
the metal folding roof is no longer supplied, because of the problem hes experienced. Hes 
suggested that indicates an inherent manufacturing defect. 
However, the main issue I have to consider is not whether there is a problem now  there 
clearly is  but whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. Given in 
particular the fact that Mr R had had the car for around five years before he mentioned any 
issue and that it was by then seven years old, I dont believe that I can fairly conclude that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. The faults developed well after the 
expiry of any warranty; theres been no wider recall by the manufacturer.   
I note too that Mr R says the mileage  which by December 2019 was around 33,000  
should not make a difference, since the roof isnt subject to mechanical wear and tear in the 
same way as, for example, engine parts. I understand his point here, but mileage might be 
an indication of how often the roof has been operated and of the stresses placed on it  a 
cabriolet roof isnt a fixed part. 
In any event, in the absence of clearer evidence tracing the problem back to the time of 
supply, I cant safely that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time of supply.       
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision 
before 7 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman