DRN-3559820
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr K complain about the settlement that Aviva Insurance Limited offered them 
following a claim made on their motor insurance policy for the loss of their car. They want it 
to increase its offer by £2,400. Mr K is a named driver on Mrs Ks policy.
 
What happened
Mr Ks car was involved in an accident and declared a total loss. Aviva offered him £46,600 
in settlement of his claim. But Mr K was unhappy as he couldnt replace the car with a like 
one for this amount. He thought Avivas offer didnt take into account the cars features and 
options. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Avivas 
offer was higher than those provided by the motor trade guides we use. He thought this 
would take into account the cars options. And so he thought Avivas offer was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr K replied that similar cars were advertised at much higher prices. He said he wouldnt be 
able to find a like for like replacement for Avivas offer. Mr K thought the Investigator was 
looking at trade prices, not retail prices. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs K wants the best possible settlement for the loss of her car. Mr K 
said he couldnt find a like for like replacement for Avivas offer. But their policy doesnt 
provide for a like for like replacement. It provides the market value in the case of its total 
loss. This is defined in the policy booklet as:
The cost of replacing your car with one of the same make, model, specification and 
condition. The market value may also be affected by other factors such as mileage, MOT 
status (if one is required), how you purchased your car and whether it has been previously 
declared a total loss.
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to see whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Mr K said he provided examples of similar cars advertised at higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
Our Investigator thought Avivas settlement offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked 
how he came to this conclusion. I can see that he looked in the motor trade guides we use 
for cars of the same make, model, age, features, mileage and condition as Mr Ks car at the 
date of its loss. He looked for the retail transacted valuations, not the trade prices. 
The range he found was between £43,880 and £44,750. The car had an additional security 
feature, and he allowed for the cost of that. Avivas settlement offer of £46,600 was higher 
than the valuations provided by the motor trade guides. So I cant say that it was unfair or 
unreasonable. And I dont require Aviva to increase its offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman