DRN-3716588
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC arent providing payment confirmation. Due to this, he 
cant see foreign exchange rate information and believes there are incorrect charges.
What happened
Mr S receives regular monthly pension payments from France, which Lloyds convert from 
EUR to GBP before crediting his account.
Mr S says there is a Club Lloyds promise not to charge commission and, up until around 
April 2020, Lloyds issued written confirmation of the payment received. So, he could see the 
amount of EUR credited together with the EUR to GBP exchange rate. Also, he could ensure 
no commission is charged.
Lloyds suspended this confirmation service due to Covid-19. So, Mr S cant see how many 
Euros have been received, what exchange rate has been used to convert to GBP, or if any 
commission has been charged. 
Mr S describes the current process as opaque and is under the impression that Lloyds have 
been charging commission. So, he complained to Lloyds and asked them to reinstate the 
service and refund any commission charged. 
Lloyds said they were currently unable to reinstate the service but were looking to do so in 
the near future. Also, they explained they hadnt charged any commission, however they 
pointed out there was a margin on foreign exchange transactions which is detailed on their 
website.
Mr S complained to our service as he wants Lloyds to show the details of each transaction 
as before and to refund the commission charged. Our investigator said he couldnt tell Lloyds 
what process to have in place and he is satisfied no refund of fees are due.
As Mr S remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the following reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Although our service does not regulate business processes, procedures and policies Im 
satisfied that Lloyds have acted fairly and reasonably when suspending the written 
confirmation service. This is because they explained the resource issue caused by Covid-19. 
Also, that the suspension was temporary, and they were working on an improved electronic 
solution. In addition, they offered Mr S an alternative solution  which was confirmation 
advice through secure email via their international helpdesk. 
Im also satisfied that Lloyds havent been charging any commission. I can understand why 
Mr S feels the exchange rate margin represents a charge. However, its not unusual for 
banks to apply margins and not use the mid-market exchange rates as these are constantly 
changing and risks are involved.
I can see that Lloyds have been transparent about their exchange rate margins and the 
exchange rates applied to Mr Ss transactions are in line with their guidance. So, Im 
satisfied that when Lloyds applied the exchange rate - and the margin - it was in line with its 
own procedures. 
Also, I dont think Lloyds have given any misleading advice here. Lloyds foreign exchange 
rates are publicly available and its common that the rate and margin arent separately 
identified.
As this service isnt the industry regulator its not for me to comment on the commercial 
decision of a bank or the margins it applies, or the rates it offers. And I havent seen 
evidence, in this particular case, to suggest Lloyds have applied any incorrect rates or 
margins.
So, although I understand Mr Ss frustrations here, I havent seen anything which suggests 
Lloyds have acted unreasonably or unfairly and I dont think they need to do anything further 
in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman