DRN-4316083
The complaint
Mr B and Ms J are unhappy White Horse Insurance Ireland dac turned down a claim they 
made on their wedding insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2022 Mr B and Ms J took out insurance with White Horse for their wedding which 
was scheduled for July 2022. Unfortunately, two days before the wedding Mr B tested 
positive for Covid 19 (as did other family members). So the wedding couldnt go ahead. 
Mr B made a claim for irrecoverable costs to White Horse the following month. It turned 
down the claim because it said the policy didnt cover claims or losses arising from a 
pandemic or epidemic (such as Covid-19). Mr B provided website information which said the 
policy did cover Covid-19. White Horse said that applied to policies sold from March 2022 
and Mr Bs was sold in January 2022. 
Our investigator thought the policy terms as they related to the exclusion for claims relating 
to Covid-19 were clear and was satisfied they applied here. And it was those terms rather 
than any website content that set out what the insurer would cover. The website in any case 
appeared to be the responsibility of the seller of the policy (a different business). So any 
concerns Mr B had about that and what he was told when taking out the policy would need 
to be pursued against that business. 
Mr B confirmed he did want to complain about that business but also asked for this 
complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. So I need to reach a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say White Horse has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr B and Ms Js policy. This does cover 
irrecoverable expenses caused by the unavoidable cancellation of a wedding. And covered 
cancellation reasons include the death, injury or sickness of one or both of the couple or 
their close relative which would make having or continuing with the wedding and/or wedding 
reception inappropriate.
However, that section of the policy goes on to set out what isnt covered which includes 
losses arising directly or indirectly from any pandemic or epidemic (e.g. COVID-19), 
including any mutations of such pandemic or epidemic diseases. The general exclusions of 
the policy (applying to all sections) say there is no cover for any claim caused directly or 
indirectly or contributed to or byclaims or losses arising directly or indirectly from any 
pandemic or epidemic (e.g. Covid-19). And the Welcome page of the policy says Claims 
and losses arising directly or indirectly from any pandemic or epidemic (e.g. COVID-19) are 
not covered by this policy. 
The relevant rules also require that an insurer should produce an Insurance Production 
Information Document (IPID) which includes information on the main exclusions where 
claims cannot be made. In this case the IPID relating to Mr B and Ms Js policy contains a 
What is not insured? section which includes Losses arising directly or indirectly from any 
pandemic or epidemic (e.g. Covid-19), including any mutations of such pandemic or 
epidemic diseases
I think White Horse made clear in the information it was responsible for (the policy wording 
and the IPID) that claims relating to a pandemic or epidemic werent covered. And its not in 
dispute the reason Mr B had to cancel his wedding was because he (and other family 
members) contracted Covid-19. At the point he did so Covid-19 continued to be classed as a 
pandemic by the World Health Organisation. So I think White Horse was right to conclude 
the policy exclusion applied to the claim Mr B made. 
Mr B has provided wording from what I understand is a frequently asked questions section 
of a website which says cover will be provided if a wedding is cancelled because of Covid-
19. Its unclear when that dates from but it appears to be from the website of the seller of the 
policy (a different business). So any concerns about that wording would need to be pursued 
against that business; its not something White Horse is responsible for. Its the policy terms 
which set out the cover its policy provides. And for the reasons Ive explained I think White 
Horse has applied those terms correctly and fairly when turning down Mr Bs claim. 
Mr B has also expressed concern White Horse asked him for information about his claim 
(including Covid-19 test results) and then went on to rely on the exclusion. However, call 
notes from when Mr B contacted White Horse in July 2022 say he was told at that point there 
was no cover for Covid-19 claims under the policy. Mr B was unhappy with this and 
referenced the website information. White Horse agreed to send him a claim form so these 
issues could be considered further. 
I appreciate it then asked him for more information on his Covid-19 test results but I dont 
think it was unreasonable White Horse wanted to be in possession of full information before 
making a formal claims decision. But it had already given him an indication of what the likely 
outcome would be so I think Mr B was able to make an informed choice about whether to 
pursue matters. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms J to accept or reject my decision before 9 
November 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman