DRN-2667661
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H had home insurance, including accidental damage, with Aviva Insurance 
Limited (Aviva). Theyre unhappy that Aviva declined their claim for damage to their ceiling 
caused by an escape of water from their shower. The policy is in joint names but, for ease, 
Ill refer only to Mr H throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr H contacted Aviva to say water had come through his ceiling after the shower had been 
in use. The country was in lockdown and Aviva didnt gain access to inspect the damage 
until around four months later. During that time, Mr H effected repairs so that he and his 
family could continue to use the shower.
Because Mr H said water had leaked through the sealant between the shower tray and the 
wall, Aviva declined the claim as a gradually operating cause. Disagreement between Mr H 
and Aviva followed about definitions of equipment, how long the sealant may have been 
damaged, repeated repairs, and whether resulting damage was covered. 
Our investigator initially thought Aviva hadnt handled the claim fairly, but after receiving 
further information from Aviva, he decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H didnt agree. He remained of the view that the sealant and grout holding the shower 
tray in place was equipment. He agreed that Aviva neednt cover the cost of repairing the 
sealant and grout, but he thought his policy covered the resulting damage.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr H will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain.
Mr H reported to Aviva that the water came through where the shower tray and the wall meet 
 through the sealant  and damaged his ceiling. Mr Hs key point is that he doesnt expect 
Aviva to fix the sealant or grout, but he does think his policy covers him for the resulting 
damage. Hes likened it to a leak from a pipe, where Aviva would cover the repairs of the 
resulting damage but not the actual pipe repair. The cause of the damage here is not 
disputed, so I see little benefit in commenting on the detail of the disagreement between Mr 
H and Aviva about whether sealant is equipment, or why it was discoloured.
I understand the point Mr H is making when he compares his claim to one of a leaking pipe, 
but I dont agree. His policy provides accidental damage cover as follows:
We will provide cover for accidental damage to the following:
fixed glass and sanitary fittings that form part of the building;
This includesfixed baths, shower trays, shower screens
Accidental damage is defined within the policy as:
Damage caused suddenly and unexpectedly by an outside force.
The policy goes on to say:
We will not cover:
Damage caused by wear and tear, settlement and shrinkageor any damage which 
happens gradually.
While water leaked from Mr Hs shower, damaging the ceiling downstairs, the cause of the 
leak was not accidental damage. If Mr H had dropped something onto the shower tray and it 
cracked, that wouldve been accidental damage  something which happened suddenly and 
unexpectedly as a result of an outside force.
Mr H hasnt said that something happened suddenly and unexpectedly to pull the sealant or 
grout away from the wall and shower tray. He said the sealant and grout failed, implying that 
it was a gradual failure of the type that might be expected with sealant. As this doesnt meet 
the definition of accidental damage, the policy doesnt cover the failure.
I understand that Mr H doesnt expect Aviva to cover the failure and repair of the sealant and 
grout, but he thinks the resulting damage should be covered. I think thats because he 
considers the resulting damage as sudden and unexpected, therefore meeting the definition 
of accidental damage. But its the order of events that matters here. Damage is covered if its 
caused by an accident. Accidental damage caused by wear and tear isnt covered. 
So, going back to the policy wording its quite clear  We will not coverDamage caused by 
wear and tear - Aviva wont cover the damage to Mr Hs ceiling because it was caused by 
wear and tear.
Overall, Im satisfied that Aviva declined Mr Hs claim fairly in line with the terms of the policy 
and I wont be asking it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman