DRN-3389671
The complaint
Mr B complains that Starling Bank Limited declined his request for an overdraft facility to be 
extended. Hes also unhappy about how Starling handled things afterwards.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr B applied to increase his overdraft facility, having experienced some 
unexpected expenditure due to issues with his car. He asked for a temporary increase to his 
overdraft facility.
Starling declined the application. Mr B complained. In response, Starling said the decision to 
decline had been based on eligibility criteria, including information about Mr Bs account 
usage and information from credit reference agencies. Starling said it wasnt upholding Mr 
Bs complaint because it had followed the correct process.
Mr B remained unhappy and complained to this service. Hes said that his complaint isnt 
that his application was declined but that the process left him feeling that the bank hasnt 
acted fairly. Hes unhappy that following his application, a representative from the collections 
team contacted him.  Mr B feels that the bank has breached his trust by passing on 
information which he provided when he applied for the overdraft.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Starling had a responsibility to 
ensure that it completed thorough checks on applicants looking to increase borrowing, and 
that it hadnt acted unfairly by following its process. The investigator also said he didnt think 
Starling had treated Mr B unfairly.
Mr B didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has said that his complaint isnt about his application for an extension to his overdraft 
being declined. Hes said that he understands that Starling is entitled to decide who it does 
and doesnt extend credit to.
The nub of Mr Ss complaint is about what happened after his application was declined. Hes 
said that a representative from the collections department contacted him, which left him 
feeling confused and annoyed that his personal information had been used in this way.
I appreciate that Mr B feels very strongly about whats happened. Whilst Im able to look into 
whether Starling has followed its process correctly and applied its process fairly, Im not able 
to tell Starling what process it should follow. Thats a decision for Starling, having regard to 
any relevant legislation and guidelines. 
Ive reviewed the available information. I have no reason to doubt Mr B when he says that a 
representative from the collections department contacted him. But there isnt enough 
evidence to link this to his application to extend his overdraft facility. Even if there was a link, 
I havent seen anything to suggest that Starling acted unfairly, or that it has misused Mr Bs 
personal information. 
Taking everything into account, and whilst I understand that Mr B is unhappy about whats 
happened, Im unable to say that Starling has done anything wrong, or that it has treated Mr 
B unfairly. So I wont be asking Starling to do anything further.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman