Complaint
Mr A complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua contacted him on a Sunday morning at 
8am to discuss a missed payment on his account. He also complains that NewDay Ltd 
trading as Aqua misled him about the purpose of the call.
Background
Mr A had a credit card account with Aqua. He says Aqua contacted him on a Sunday 
morning at 8am. He says it told him it wanted to discuss possible fraudulent activity on his 
account. But, after verifying his identity, he says it demanded that a missed payment on his 
account should be paid. 
Mr A says Aqua was acting fraudulently and illegally when it made this call. He complained 
to Aqua. 
Aqua looked into his complaint. It initially sent him a response which dealt with issues about 
charges on his account and the number of calls hed received. But, it didnt deal with his 
complaint about the Sunday morning call. So, it reviewed his complaint again and sent a 
final response to him. It upheld his complaint. It said calls were before the department 
opening times and should not have been made. It also credited Mr As account with £20 by 
way of compensation.
Mr A was not satisfied with this response and so he referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He said, on balance, he thought a call was made 
on a Sunday but because there was no recording of the call, he couldnt know what had 
been said. So, he thought £20 was fair and reasonable compensation for what had 
happened. 
Mr A provided further information. He sent us call logs recorded on his own system which 
showed calls being received from Aquas fraud department. He said these calls started on 
11 January 2019. But, our investigator said he couldnt be sure whatd been said on the call 
Mr A had complained about. So, he didnt change his view. Mr A disagreed and so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.        
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive reviewed the logs that Mr A has sent us of calls hes received from Aqua. And, Ive 
reviewed the logs and the information Aqua has sent us concerning calls they say theyve 
made to Mr A. Ive also compared the dates of the calls on Mr As log against the dates of 
DRN-1565046the calls on Aqua's log. The log Aqua provided related only to calls recorded on its "Dialler" 
system. It's also provided recordings of other calls that were made and notes from its 
systems of calls that have taken place. I've checked all of the information provided by Mr A 
and by Aqua. But, I cant see any record of a call being made to Mr A on a Sunday.
Mr A is adamant that he received the call. He is able to access records of calls he received 
during this period and has provided us with copies of some of those logs. So, I wouldve 
expected him to be able to provide evidence of the call he says was made on a Sunday. We 
asked him to do that but he hasnt provided us with that evidence. 
I can also see that Aqua in its final response letter dated 25 April 2019 told him it was 
upholding his complaint. It said
..the calls were made before department opening times so they should not have been 
made to you
Aqua has subsequently said it has no record of the call Mr A refers to. It also says its 
collections team doesnt start until 10am on a Sunday and there is no facility to transfer calls 
from its security team to its collections team. It said its letter of 25 April 2019 was written 
because the agent had decided to take the customers word.
So, I can see why our investigator decided, on balance, to take the view that a call had been 
made on a Sunday. But, theres no record of the date or time that call was made. Nor is 
there any recording of what was said on the call. And, in these circumstances, I agree with 
our investigator that £20 was fair and reasonable compensation.
Aqua says it keeps a record of all its calls and it also records the calls. As mentioned above 
there is no recording of the call Mr A has complained about. But, Ive listened to a number of 
other calls between Mr A and Aqua. I havent found any evidence on any of those calls that 
Aqua has provided misleading information to Mr A about the purpose of its calls. On each 
call it has given the name of its adviser and correctly stated the purpose of the call. 
When considering this matter, I have to consider the evidence thats been presented. Where 
the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I have 
to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
Aqua misled him about the purpose of any of its calls.
So, whilst I know Mr A feels very strongly about this matter, I agree with our investigator that 
Aqua has treated him fairly and reasonably. It accepted his word that a call had been made 
on a Sunday, it agreed to delete his phone number from its records to prevent further calls 
and it credited his account with £20 by way of compensation. I dont require it to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against NewDay Ltd trading as 
Aqua.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.Irene Martin
Ombudsman