DRN-3280419
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the response of U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) 
following a claim on their legal expenses insurance. They think U K Insurances questions 
were excessive and the terms it sought to agree with their solicitors were unreasonable.
What happened
Following a boundary dispute with their neighbour in July 2018, Mr and Mrs H instructed a 
solicitor in August 2018 and in December 2018 they contacted UK Insurance.
As a result of contacting U K Insurance, they understood that they could claim legal cover for 
the trespass and encroachment. Mr and Mrs H were told a home visit would be required to 
understand the situation if they instructed solicitors through UK Insurance. They chose 
instead to retain their own solicitor. They were under the impression this would still be 
covered under the legal expenses cover when they were ready to issue proceedings.
By August 2020 it was clear to Mr and Mrs H negotiations between them and their 
neighbours had failed. They wanted to retain their solicitors who were familiar with the case. 
They say over the next nine weeks U K Insurance tried to impose onerous and restrictive 
terms on their solicitors. Eventually their solicitors said they couldnt act for them as the 
terms were onerous and restrictive. When Mr and Mrs H told U K Insurance this it offered 
them the opportunity to choose one of its panel solicitors or to top up the fees it paid. 
Mr and Mrs H chose to stay with their existing solicitors and not to involve U K Insurance any 
further. They say they were devastated that they had wasted nine weeks due to U K 
Insurances involvement particularly as U K Insurance hadnt shared the terms and 
conditions with them at an earlier stage.
Theyd like U K Insurance to reimburse them for the legal costs theyve incurred, as well as 
offering them £1000 compensation for the stress caused by the situation. They also want the 
costs of their proceedings against their neighbour to be covered.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought as the policy set 
out that Mr and Mrs H had the option to request to see the terms of appointment, they could 
have made a request to see it. She also couldnt see that U K Insurance caused 
unnecessary delays. 
Mr and Mrs H disagree they feel because U K Insurance repeatedly assured them that their 
insurance would cover the costs of going to court, they didnt put the wheels in motion to find 
a barrister. They feel that months were lost by U K Insurances actions.
The investigator issued a second view setting out a detailed timeline of contact between it 
and the solicitors. She said she couldnt see that U K Insurance made unnecessary contact 
with Mr and Mrs Hs solicitors during this time. U K Insurance had to contact the solicitors to 
confirm prospects and chase any delays in receiving this information. And any work Mr and 
Mrs Hs solicitor did prior to accepting U K Insurances terms of appointment wouldnt be 
covered under the policys terms and conditions. This is outlined within the policy booklet 
which Mr and Mrs H were given when taking out the policy.
Mr and Mrs H would like an ombudsmans decision. They feel quite strongly that U K 
Insurance didnt understand the case and asked irrelevant questions. They also feel that to 
an ordinary member of the public it is misleading to be told you have insurance cover if you 
have to pay solicitors costs before they send the terms of business to the solicitor and that 
UK Insurance should at least ask relevant questions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Hs frustration here. If they had known how things would have 
turned out they wouldnt have contacted their insurers about their claim, and they would 
have saved time and money. But for me to uphold their complaint I must find that U K 
Insurance did something wrong. 
Mr and Mrs H think U K Insurance has done several things wrong. They think:
it should have provided a copy of the terms of appointment to their solicitor at any 
earlier stage;
the terms of that appointment are onerous; and
U K Insurance asked excessive and unnecessary questions. 
They think because of these errors U K Insurance has cost them time and money.
Given how events unfolded I think it would have been helpful if the solicitors had seen a 
copy of the terms of appointment at an earlier stage. But I cant say U K Insurance was 
wrong not to send the terms of appointment until it did. It repeatedly made clear that no costs 
would be covered until the terms were agreed. Doing things sequentially, as it did, is 
beneficial in some cases and not in others. For example, if there were no prospects of 
success a policy holder might be unhappy that their solicitor had spent time reviewing terms 
and conditions that were never going to be needed. It was always open to Mr and Mrs H or 
their solicitor to ask for the terms of appointment at an early stage. So, I cant agree with 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about the timing of the provision of the terms of appointment.
Mr and Mrs H have provided an email from their solicitor explaining why he was unable to 
accept the U K Insurances terms. He said he considered the terms to be generally onerous 
and restrictive in a way which would fetter freedom and discretion. He thought the overriding 
basis of the terms is there needed to be constant referral to the insurers for approval for 
virtually every step to be taken which is not a practical way to run litigation when things 
change and matters require attention. He said this meant the exercise of his discretion was 
severely eroded and the reporting requirements imposed are restrictive and severe yet the 
insurers will not pay for any correspondence other than that itemised in the reporting 
requirements. He also says there is no agreement to pay interim bills for costs unless 
ordered by the Court and the rate of indemnity offered is ungenerous.
Broadly his concerns seem to be about the amount he will receive for his work (that includes 
the hourly rate and having to do some work which wont be paid) and a restriction on his 
discretion. I dont think it is unreasonable for U K Insurance to want to keep control of its 
costs for the litigation or for it to be kept informed. Mr and Mrs Hs solicitor hasnt given any 
specific example of how the reporting requirements would negatively impact on his clients or 
their case. Many firms work within these terms every day and so I dont think based on what 
I have seen I can say that the terms are unfair.When Mr and Mrs Hs solicitor declined to agree to the terms of appointment U K Insurance 
gave Mr and Mrs H the chance to switch to one of its panel lawyers. It was Mr and Mrs Hs 
choice not to take this option. As U K Insurance didnt decline to offer legal cover, I dont 
think it would be fair to require it to pay Mr and Mrs Hs legal costs.
I have looked at the information available to me regarding the correspondence between U K 
Insurance and Mr and Mrs Hs solicitors. The investigator helpfully set out a timeline which I 
wont repeat here but it doesnt seem to be that there was an excessive amount of 
communication between the insurer and solicitor. U K Insurance seems to be looking to 
establish that there were reasonable prospects of success and that action was 
proportionate. This is in line with the terms of the policy and is what I would expect to see. In 
cases of boundary disputes proportionality is often not a straightforward thing to consider. 
Cases can be complex, and costs can become disproportionate. I can see that U K 
Insurance agreed to fund the instruction of counsel to confirm the position on prospects of 
success and proportionality. I think this was reasonable. I cant see that U K Insurance 
caused unnecessary delays. Overall, it seems to me that U K Insurances communication 
was reasonable. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H might think that some of the questions about 
their neighbours financial position werent relevant. But in the event the court proceedings 
were successful then U K Insurance would in some circumstances expect Mr and Mrs Hs 
neighbours to be ordered to pay Mr and Mrs Hs costs. So, Mr and Mrs Hs neighbours 
financial position was relevant.
In conclusion, I cant see that U K Insurance has acted unreasonably. It hasnt withdrawn 
cover. It made clear that it wouldnt pay any costs incurred before the terms of appointment 
were agreed with the solicitors. When the solicitors declined to accept these terms, it offered 
Mr and Mrs H the opportunity to use one of its panel solicitors. It reasonably asked questions 
to establish whether the proposed proceedings had a reasonable prospect of success and 
were proportionate. It didnt cause any unreasonable delays.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman