DRN-1516273
The complaint
Mrs C says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mrs C bought the PPI in 1999 whilst applying for a new credit card. Our adjudicator who 
looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs C has already received some money back for the commission Barclays received from 
selling her the PPI. However, she still thinks she was mis-sold the PPI in the first place and 
disagrees with the adjudicator. The complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
Mrs C says the PPI was added without her knowing or being told anything about it. But Im 
afraid I was sent a copy of her credit card application and I can see the form gave an 
obvious choice to either have or not have PPI. Mrs C selected the box to add the PPI and 
she signed the form. In addition to this, she would have also then been able to see the PPI 
charges listed regularly on her monthly credit card statements. I think if she had never 
asked for it, she would have wanted to know why she was being charged.
So whilst I dont doubt Mrs C genuinely cant remember much about this now, the evidence 
is much more persuasive that she agreed to the policy and would have seen that the cover 
was set up on her account.
Mrs C says she probably responded to an advert (or similar) to get the card account set up, 
which means this would have been a postal sale. She would have therefore filled out the 
application form in her own time and without any intervention from Barclays. And it was her 
decision as to whether or not the PPI was something she wanted.
Looking at the form, I can see ways where things could have been set out more clearly but 
this wouldnt have made much difference, in my view, to what Mrs C went on to do. I think 
she would have still asked for the cover.
Thats because she could see there was a choice and I think she was eligible for the cover 
and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. 
Looking at the work she did, I agree she would have had some sickness protection through 
her job. But this doesnt make the PPI of no use. It would have paid out 10% of her 
outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if shed needed to claim and this would have 
been in addition to any other means she had at that time. I also see that the cost was 70p 
per £100 outstanding on the card, which I think would have been affordable for Mrs C.
I think this policy was of use to her and assume this is why she decided to buy it at the time.
Mrs C said her parents would have always helped out if needed and so the PPI wasnt 
necessary. But as Ive said, this was a decision for her to make and whilst Im sure her 
parents would have wanted to help, this would depend on many factors, over a long period 
of time.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs C but I think the evidence shows its more likely she chose 
the policy and would have known it wasnt something she needed to have. This means Im 
not upholding her mis-sale complaint. Barclays has already paid back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer 
is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs C. But it has already paid her for the commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman