DRN-4493693
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about a claim he made on his Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) legal expenses insurance policy.
Mr C says RSA treated him unfairly.
In this decision all references to RSA include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr C made a claim on his RSA legal expenses insurance policy for cover to deal with 
problems he was having with HMRC due to the actions of an accountant he engaged.
Mr Cs complaint is about the time it took RSA to deal with his claim and provide him with an 
answer. He says the delays in their dealing with his claim meant that he had to cancel an 
appointment he made with an accountant, only for RSA to then ask the accountant to 
provide them with further information. He also says that if hed gotten help from RSA in time, 
he couldve had the full amount he was being asked to pay HMRC wiped off, but now the 
deadline to respond has been missed he cant do that. Mr C feels RSA are responsible for 
this.
Our investigator considered Mr Cs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. She said 
that although RSA had caused some delays in dealing with his claim, they had offered him 
adequate compensation for this, and they hadnt prejudiced his position because his claim 
wasnt covered by the policy in any event.
Mr C doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Cs complaint. This is why.
Mr Cs complaint is essentially about how RSA handled his claim, rather than the fact that 
they declined it. These are the matters hes concerned about:
The delays RSA caused in dealing with his claim;
The fact that he didnt receive proper advice to help him with his claim so he could 
challenge HMRC properly.
The impact of the delays caused meant he was out of time to respond to HMRC so he 
missed his chance to have the amount they were asking for written off;
RSA focussed on the wrong part of his claim to start with, which contributed to the 
delays.
The Claim(s)
I can see the investigator addressed these issues in the round when she set out the 
chronology of things. I wont be doing that here but rather pointing to the reasons why I dont 
think RSA did anything wrong.
The starting point was the claim Mr C made. From what Ive seen the initial claim Mr C made 
wasnt for advice in respect of HMRC, rather it appeared to be a claim against the 
accountancy practice hed instructed to file his self-assessment tax returns and the fact that 
HMRC had determined that he wasnt entitled to his expenses. Mr C says he contacted his 
accountant and they told him he had signed a disclaimer to this effect, and this was down to 
him.
RSA turned the claim down on the basis that it didnt cover contract disputes where the 
contract was entered into before his insurance was in place- and in this case Mr C instructed 
the accountant he seemed to be complaining about in 2019, which was before cover was in 
place. They also said they couldnt consider the claim under the tax protection section of the 
policy because the claim Mr C was seeking to make wasnt in relation to the self-assessment 
but rather the fact that he had signed a disclaimer with his accountant agreeing to the 
position he found himself in with HMRC. They relied on the following term in this regard:
We will cover the Costs and Expenses if you are subject to a comprehensive examination 
by HM Revenue & Customs that considers all areas of your self-assessment tax return, but 
not enquiries limited to one or more specific area.
Mr C says that RSA had misunderstood his claim. But I dont agree. The claim Mr C had 
made was framed as being against his accountants. And when asked by RSA to clarify if the 
claim was in professional negligence against the accountant, Mr C confirmed this was 
correct. This was noted in an email Mr C sent them in March 2023. But in May 2023 Mr C 
told RSA his claim was in relation the HMRC dispute and investigation into his self-
assessment tax return. So, whilst Mr C says RSA considered the claim under the wrong 
section of cover and focussed on the wrong part of his claim, I think this was led entirely by 
the information he had supplied including confirmation of the claim he wanted to bring and 
the party he wanted to bring it against. So, I cant say RSA did anything wrong here. 
In response to Mr Cs request to look at the claim as against HMRC, RSA asked Mr C for 
confirmation of details of an accountant who would be prepared to consider dealing with his 
claim that they could contact to seek an opinion from, in accordance with the remaining 
terms of the policy. Mr C did this and RSA contacted the accountant for further information 
following this. No response was received from Mr Cs accountant until after RSA issued a 
final response letter dealing with Mr Cs complaint to them about the matters that have gone 
before this.  I think it was reasonable for RSA to reconsider the claim in light of Mr C saying 
that he wanted help with HMRC when he asked for it. I dont think RSA could have done this 
before he told them that thats what he wanted, so I cant say that they did anything wrong 
here. 
Although Mr C hasnt asked me to determine whether RSA were right to turn down the claim 
he made when he did, for the sake of completeness, I agree with the claims decisions they 
made about cover, when they made them and with their interpretation of the relevant policy 
terms based on the information they had at the time.
DelaysRSA have already accepted that there were unnecessary delays on their part in dealing with 
Mr Cs claim. In particular theyve cited that they didnt always respond to Mr C in 
accordance with their service standards. In some cases, they accept that they took far longer 
than they should have to reply to him and that they didnt always keep him informed of what 
would happen next at times when this was necessary. RSA have also accepted that they 
didnt call Mr C back when he requested this on a few occasions. As a result, they 
apologised and offered him £200 in compensation for this.
The investigator identified that as well as the delays identified by RSA, they also took too 
long to contact Mr Cs accountant. Mr C said this led to his making then cancelling an 
appointment with the accountant. But I cant say this meant that his claim was prejudiced. 
Rather it means he suffered some inconvenience. 
The overall delay in dealing with Mr Cs claim since it was submitted was, in my view, down 
to the fact that RSA were investigating cover for an entirely different claim- namely one 
against the accountant. But that was based on the information Mr C provided. So, I dont 
think I can say that RSA were responsible for this. And although Mr C says that the time it 
took for RSA to contact the accountant, he provided details of meant he was out of time to 
pursue things with HMRC, I havent seen anything to support this- nor that he provided RSA 
with any details of an impending deadline that he was facing, for which he needed help that 
the policy would definitely offer. As things stand, RSA said they would consider funding his 
accountants fees in helping him, but that was subject to the remaining policy terms. And its 
not currently clear whether the claim is covered based on those terms so I cant say that he 
would be entitled to cover with any certainty. Because of this I cant say that RSA did 
something wrong, such that they need to do anything else. And I take the view that the offer 
of £200 in compensation adequately compensates Mr C for the way in which they handled 
his claim- in relation to delays in progressing it, for failing to keep him updated when they 
should have and for not calling him when he asked for this. If Mr C hasnt already accepted 
this amount, he can do so by contacting RSA directly.
Mr C feels adjustments should have been made for the way in which RSA communicated 
with him due to a learning difficulty. This didnt form part of Mr Cs initial complaint against 
RSA and RSA havent had the opportunity to comment on it. As such its not a matter I can 
determine. What I am able to say however is that I havent currently seen anything in the 
communications between Mr C and RSA that suggests that what they told him wasnt clear 
or that Mr C wasnt able to engage with them meaningfully. If Mr C wants to pursue a 
specific complaint in relation to this issue against RSA, then he will need to raise this with 
them directly in the first instance. 
Alternative cover
I can see that RSAs claims handlers also looked at whether Mr C had cover for the claim 
against his accountant under another policy. I cant comment on that here because thats not 
the subject of this complaint and Im not considering a claim against a different insurer in this 
decision. If Mr C is unhappy with the outcome of his claim under that specific policy, he will 
need to raise a complaint with that insurer directly. The ongoing claim
I dont know what Mr Cs accountants response was to RSA and whether theres a claim 
capable of cover currently. From Mr Cs comments, it sounds like the claim might not have a 
prospect of succeeding. Thats not something I can comment on however given it doesnt 
form part of this specific complaint. However if Mr C feels he hasnt received a final answer 
on his claim or that it still requires further attention from RSA, he should contact them 
directly.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman