DRN-2042574
The complaint
Mr A says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2009 Mr A took out a personal loan with Lloyds and the bank recommended that he also 
take out PPI to protect his repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt find the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are the same as those set out on 
our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Lloyds gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr As needs?
- Did Lloyds give Mr A the information he needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr A 
is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different  such as not taking 
out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Im not persuaded that Mr As PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Lloyds records from the time the policy was sold indicate there were quite detailed 
discussions around buying the PPI. Lloyds notes say:
although [Mr A] and his wife are in partnership there was a concern with sickness critical 
illness and life cover for loan payments by taking the LP [PPI] the payments would be met or 
cleared in the event that [Mr A] was too sick to work or passed away. [Mr A] is aware of the 
additional cost and separate d/d in place for this cover.
Details about the PPI were also set out separately on the loan agreement Mr A signed. The 
agreement says This insurance is optional. 
So from what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Lloyds made Mr A aware that the PPI was optional 
and he chose to take it out. 
Lloyds advised Mr A to take out the policy and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this because:
- Theres nothing to suggest that Mr A wasnt eligible for the policy given his 
circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions.
- It doesnt appear that Mr A would have been affected by any of the significant limitations 
or exclusions of the cover - such as those relating to pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr A was self-employed when the policy was sold. But it wasnt any more difficult for 
self-employed people to make an unemployment claim on the policy than it wouldve 
been for employed people. So this point doesnt persuade me that Lloyds 
recommendation to take the PPI was unsuitable for Mr A.  
- If the loan had been repaid early Mr A would not have been given a pro-rata refund and 
that made the policy relatively inflexible. I cant be sure that the bank considered this or 
explained the situation clearly to Mr A. 
Mr As representative points out that he was taking the loan to consolidate other debts. 
But as far as Im aware Mr As fixed term loan was arranged to cover open-ended, 
unsecured credit card debt. At the time he took the loan there was nothing to suggest 
that Mr A thought he might repay it early. So the policys lack of flexibility didnt make it 
unsuitable for him.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. As Ive already said, Mr A was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely he would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think Mr A would still 
have taken out the policy. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to repay all of the cost of the PPI. But Lloyds has paid 
back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr A, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman