DRN-3110565
The complaint
Mrs B complains through her representative, a claims management company (CMC), about 
investment advice she received from Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax).
What happened
The facts of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go over them in great 
detail, but the key facts are as follows:
Mrs B received investment advice from Halifax in 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2003 and 
2007.
She also took out investments without any formal advice in 2000 and 2001.
The CMC complained to Halifax on her behalf in 2020 as they thought the advice she 
received was unsuitable.
Halifax upheld the complaint on the basis that she shouldnt have been advised to 
take any risk. However, the redress calculation they performed showed that she 
hadnt suffered financially as a result of the advice and therefore no compensation 
was due.
The CMC disagreed and thought that the rationale behind the calculations was 
incorrect, in their opinion Mrs B could have taken a lower level of risk than she was 
advised to.
The CMC brought the complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators.
The investigator was satisfied that the methodology Halifax used was fair and 
reasonable.
The CMC didnt agree and made the following points, in summary:
They accepted that for the earlier sales, it may have been better to not take any risk 
at all.
But this wasnt the case for the later sales, by that time Mrs B had some experience 
of investment markets, a larger disposable income, had paid off the mortgage and 
had also had access to funds that had been invested several years earlier for over 
the five year minimum term. 
Given the funds had been held for well over the minimum recommended term of five 
years there was no reason to not make withdrawals from the earlier investments if 
needed for more expensive items that could not be covered from disposable income.
They therefore saw no reason that Mrs B should have been excluded from making a 
cautious investment to potentially exceed the rates on savings accounts.
The investigator wasnt minded to change his opinion so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the redress methodology used by Halifax is unreasonable and I 
wont be asking them to do any more. I will now explain why.
I dont think its in dispute that Mrs B wasnt in a position to take any risk with her funds 
before 2007. The available evidence shows that she had a very limited disposable income, 
so I think its reasonable to suggest that she should have been advised to place her funds 
into risk-free investments. This is the basis for Halifaxs redress calculation, so Im satisfied 
that it looks to put Mrs B back in the position she should have been in if shed been given 
suitable advice.
Ive then considered the 2007 investment. By this time Mrs Bs circumstances had changed. 
Notably, her disposable income had increased to around £440 per month. She held around 
£65,000 on deposit and £51,000 in investments. And I take the points the CMC has made 
around her experience levels and her capacity to take a small level of risk. 
I think it is a finely balanced point but I must give regard to her circumstances at the time. 
And the records say that she wished to retire in five years time, was on a relatively low 
income and already had around 44% of her capital exposed to investment risk. Given her 
circumstances, I dont think it would have been unreasonable for her to not put any more of 
her capital at risk. I think it would have been broadly suitable for her to invest in products 
which guaranteed a return without any risk to her capital. 
So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the methodology used by Halifax is fair 
and reasonable and I wont be asking them to do any more.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I wont be asking Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to 
do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman