DRN-3030932
The complaint
Mr M complains Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to him with a credit card in 2004. 
What happened
It looks as though Mr M initially complained to Capital One about the sale of PPI in 2013. At 
this point, he was represented by a different claims management company to those 
representing him now. Capital One issued a final response letter to the former representative 
in respect of that complaint on 8 March 2013. That letter said Mr M could bring the complaint 
to this service if he didnt accept Capital Ones response. The letter also stated that there 
was a time limit of six months in which to do so. 
Mr M appears to have instructed his current representative at some point in 2017 and a 
further complaint was made to Capital One. Capital One issued a further reply on 19 October 
2017. It said it had already issued a final response letter about the mis-sale and so that 
matter wasnt considered again. But Capital One did refund to Mr Ms credit card account the 
amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of Mr Ms PPI premium. It did 
this because it didnt tell Mr M about the high level of commission and profit share he would 
pay, and that failure to disclose was unfair.
Those representing Mr M then referred the complaint to this service in March 2018. The 
grounds of complaint were that PPI had been mis-sold and that the offer Capital One made 
in respect of commission was unfair. 
Capital One didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold (the mis-
sale) - because it said Mr M had referred the complaint to us too late.   
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr Ms complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought Capital Ones refund was a fair way to 
resolve the complaint
Mr Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Mr M was adamant that his 
complaint had been referred in time. As matters could not be resolved informally, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Can we consider the mis-sale complaint? 
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more 
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter. This is 
Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be found online in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook.
Capital One sent its final response about the mis-sale on 8 March 2013. So Mr M had until 8 
September 2013 to refer the complaint to us. But it wasnt referred to us until March 2018, 
which is more than four years after the time limit expired. I know that Capital One entered 
into further correspondence about commission in 2017, but that doesnt extend the time limit 
for the alleged mis-sale. I appreciate Mr M feels strongly that we received the complaint in 
time, but Im afraid it was referred out of time under the rules I have to apply.
I can look into complaints referred outside the usual time limits where Im satisfied the failure 
to comply with the time limits was because of exceptional circumstances. I havent been 
provided with any reasons for lateness, other than the argument made on behalf of Mr M 
that the complaint was in time. So I cant say exceptional circumstances apply in this case. 
For those reasons, we cannot look at the mis-sale aspect of this complaint. In other words, 
Im sorry to say we cannot look at the way PPI was sold to Mr M. 
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act. 
Ive also considered what would amount to fair compensation to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Capital One should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Capital Ones offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Capital One didnt tell Mr M about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Capital One and Mr M was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Capital One didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case 
I dont think Capital One acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipredress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Ms representative made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary, it is argued Mr M should get back all the money he paid for the policy because: 
Capital One failed to tell Mr M about the high commission and profit-share rates he paid; the 
low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. It is further argued this meant 
the policy was poor value, and I should find that Mr M wouldnt have taken out the policy had 
he known about the level of commission. It is contended he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr M in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Capital One not 
disclosing the high level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Ms representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Capital Ones failure to disclose the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above.I think it was fair for Capital One to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mr M paid for the PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. 
So I consider that Capital Ones refund of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
As Capital One has already refunded this amount to Mr Ms credit card account, I dont 
consider it need do anything further. 
My final decision
Im unable to consider Mr Ms complaint about how the policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late, and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Capital 
One (Europe) plc should refund to Mr M an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). I 
understand Capital One (Europe) plc has already refunded such compensation to Mr Ms 
credit card account on this basis, so I do not require it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman