DRN-3890836
The complaint
R, a charity, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly closed its account and later made it 
difficult for R to open a new account with the bank.
R is represented by one of its trustees, who Ill refer to as Mr F  for ease, Ill continue to 
refer to Mr F as the complainant. Any reference to Mr F includes all trustees of R.
What happened
Mr F complained to Lloyds after his account was closed. Lloyds told him it had sent a letter 
asking for more information about the charity and later closed the account because Mr F 
hadnt replied. Although Mr F says no letters were received, Lloyds says it acted in 
accordance with its terms.
Following this, Mr F decided to open a new account and is unhappy that Lloyds asked him to 
provide, what he thinks was, unreasonable information. Mr F is particularly dissatisfied that 
the bank asked that he provide a letter from his solicitor or accountant., despite him having 
already sent the records the bank initially requested. Mr F wants to be compensated and for 
Lloyds to open his new account. Mr F adds that Lloyds caused a significant amount of 
distress and inconvenience, caused the charity to lose out on donations and that he had to 
fund the charity via his personal account.
Unhappy with the banks response, Mr F asked this service to get involved. Our investigator 
decided that Lloyds had acted fairly. Mr F doesnt agree and asked for a final decision  so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint  Ill explain why.
I think its important to set out what the remit of my powers are. Its for Lloyds to decide how 
it conducts its business, what banking services it provides its customers and the checks it 
carries out when providing such services. Lloyds obligations are to act in line with regulatory 
requirements, as set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Its not for me to decide how Lloyds should conduct its business  thats solely on the bank 
itself to decide and its the FCAs responsibility to monitor Lloyds activities. I can only 
consider whether the bank has treated Mr F fairly in the application of its banking practices 
or procedures.
Account closure
Lloyds said it closed Mr Fs account after he didnt respond to a letter it sent to him in April 
last year. The bank says it asked that he complete the form that was sent with the letter, 
providing more information about the charity, so that Lloyds could fulfil its regulatory 
obligations. I dont find this request to be unreasonable, given the bank is under a duty to 
follow relevant regulations. I can also see that Lloyds made a similar request a year earlier. 
The letter set out that Mr F had until 15 June to respond, otherwise the account would be 
closed. Lloyds says it didnt hear back from Mr F, despite it sending a reminder via SMS in 
May. So it went ahead with closing the account. Lloyds terms for this account allow it to 
close Mr Fs account in such circumstances, so I dont think it was unfair for the bank to have 
done so.
Mr F says he didnt receive the letter from the bank. I can see from the copy thats been 
provided, that the letter was addressed correctly and Lloyds records show that it was sent. 
The banks records also confirm that the SMS reminder was sent. Im not aware of any 
postal problems at this address around the time. So Im satisfied that Lloyds did send the 
letter. And even if the letter failed to arrive, I havent seen an explanation for why Mr F didnt 
take action after receiving the SMS reminder from the bank. Given this, and that Mr F had 
around 60 days to respond to the banks request, Im of the opinion that Lloyds gave a fair 
opportunity to Mr F to reply  before proceeding to close his account. 
New account
Mr F is unhappy with the information requested by Lloyds to open a new account. He says 
the banks request that he provides a solicitor or accountant certified letter was 
unreasonable and delayed the opening of his new account. As I alluded to earlier, its up to 
Lloyds to decide its requirements for opening a new account and its not within my remit to 
interfere in the banks procedures. 
Its not unusual for banks to request information to establish where certain funds originated 
from and the bank can ask for different types of information to establish this. I understand 
this caused some delay and inconvenience, which I appreciate wouldve been frustrating for 
Mr F, but I cant fairly conclude that Lloyds was unreasonable.
I understand that since registering the complaint with this service, Mr F was able to provide 
the required information and the account has been opened. Im pleased this issue is now 
resolved.
To conclude, in my opinion, Lloyds acted fairly when it closed Mr Fs account. It seems to me 
that Mr F was given a fair opportunity to provide the information the bank needed, and I think 
Lloyds had taken reasonable steps to contact him. I also think that Lloyds request for a 
solicitor or accountant letter was reasonable, given the bank needed certified information 
about the charitys funds. So I wont be asking Lloyds to take any action in relation to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman