DRN-3308580
The complaint
Mr M complains that esure Insurance Limited wrongly avoided his motor insurance policy 
after his car was stolen as hed failed to disclose all the relevant details it had asked for.    
What happened
Mr M bought a policy in December 2019, which was renewed a year later until December 
2021. In February 2021 his car was stolen, so he made a claim. During its routine enquiries, 
esure found that Mr M had 13 penalty points on his licence when he applied for the policy in 
2019. At renewal in December 2020, six of the points were still live (added less than three 
years previously) and all the offences were committed within the previous five years. Mr M 
had been asked to declare all driving offences within the last five years but hadnt done so.
 
Mr M said he didnt declare the offences in 2019 or in 2020 because he didnt think there 
were any points on his licence. He assumed theyd all expired. He said esure should have 
checked anyway, as hed uploaded his licence to the comparison website hed used to get 
the policy. esure said had it known about Mr Ms driving record, it wouldnt have offered him 
cover in 2019 or 2020. It said hed been reckless by not declaring the offences on both 
occasions. So it avoided the policies, declined the claim and kept the premium. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint. He didnt think Mr M had taken 
reasonable care not to misrepresent the facts to esure. He thought it was fair for it to retain 
the premium, as in his opinion Mr M had acted recklessly when he bought the policy and at 
renewal. Mr M said he shouldnt be punished for something he hadnt done deliberately. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms situation is covered by the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). Under CIDRA, the first issue is whether a consumer made a 
misrepresentation by not giving an insurer the correct information. If so, the next issue is 
whether the consumer took reasonable care to avoid making the misrepresentation.  
In December 2019 Mr M was asked online if he had any convictions, endorsements or fixed 
penalty notices to disclose from the last five years. I think that was a clear question. Mr M 
answered No despite the fact that he had 13 penalty points on his licence and had three 
motoring offences on his record from the previous five years.  
In my opinion, Mr M didnt take reasonable care to avoid making the misrepresentation to 
esure. He says he assumed the points had all expired. But I dont think he had any reason to 
make that assumption. Mr M also said he assumed that esure would check to see if there 
were any offences on his record. But I dont think it was reasonable to make that assumption 
just because hed downloaded his licence on the comparison website. Its for a consumer to 
ensure that an insurer has all the details it specifically asks for - without guessing or making 
assumptions - and to check the facts if necessary. esure made a clear request to Mr M for 
accurate details of his driving record, which I think he should have provided.
   
Under CIDRA, in order for an insurer to take any action following a misrepresentation, it has 
to show it was a qualifying misrepresentation  which means the insurer must show that it 
wouldnt have offered the policy at all had it known all the facts  or that it would only have 
done so on different terms. esure has provided underwriting evidence to show that it 
wouldnt have offered Mr M a policy in 2019, so his misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Consequently, esure was entitled to take action, but the action its able to take under CIDRA 
depends on whether a non-disclosure was deliberate or reckless, or simply careless. esure 
thought Mr Ms non-disclosure was reckless, given that he knew or should have known that 
he had penalty points and had three offences on his record in the previous five years. He 
told esure hed been fined and was given points on his licence, but he just assumed theyd 
expired, rather than checking. And Mr M seems to have dismissed the fact that he had three 
offences to declare, regardless of the points on his licence. In these circumstances, I think it 
was reasonable for esure to decide that Mr M had acted recklessly.
 
In 2020 Mr M was asked at renewal to check that the details hed provided previously were 
correct. The renewal letter said if any information Mr M had provided previously was 
incorrect, he should contact it, otherwise the new policy may be avoided - and any claim on it 
may be rejected. Mr M had said in 2019 that his driving record was clear. But by 2020, six of 
the 13 penalty points hed had in 2019 were still live - and all three offences that led to 
points being put on his licence had taken place within the last five years.  
   
Mr M had another chance to think about his driving record at this point. He could have 
checked and contacted esure to correct the details hed given previously. Instead, he relied 
on the assumption that the points and offences had expired and on his view that esure was 
responsible for checking whether his driving record was clear. By not checking, and not 
correcting the details hed given previously, I think Mr M made a further misrepresentation to 
esure in 2020 and didnt take reasonable care to avoid doing so. The underwriting details 
esure has provided show that it would not have offered cover to Mr M in 2020 had it known 
about his driving record. So I think his misrepresentation in 2020 was also a qualifying one.    
Mr M says he doesnt think he should suffer when he didnt mislead esure deliberately. But I 
think it was reasonable for esure to conclude that he acted recklessly  not caring whether 
the details he supplied were accurate and not caring whether that made any difference to 
esure. In these circumstances, under CIDRA, I think esure had the right to avoid the policy, 
to reject Mr Ms claim and to keep the premium. 
Mr M says the avoidance of the policies and the fact that esure hasnt dealt with the theft 
claim has caused him financial and other difficulties. I can see how hard the situation must 
be for Mr M, and I sympathise. But as I dont think hes shown that esure acted 
unreasonably, I cant uphold Mr Ms complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022. 
Susan EwinsOmbudsman