DRN-2801774
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a mortgage a 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium MPPI policy taken out in 1993. Mrs M and Mr M 
applied for the policy in a meeting, when they were arranging a mortgage. The policy and 
mortgage ended in or before October 2002.
Mrs M and Mr M say they did not knowingly take out the MPPI policy. They say the costs
and benefits of the policy were not made clear to them. They say they were not given costs
about the policy and can provide the paperwork to show this. They also add that the policy
only covered Mr M something they wouldnt have agreed to. They think Santander mis-sold
the policy.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2021. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
I have decided not to uphold Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint. Here are my reasons:
This has been a difficult complaint for me to consider as I havent been able to see all of
the sales documentation that would have been used at the time of sale. This is
understandable due to the many years that have passed since the date of sale. I have
though considered what I know of sales that happened at that time and also read Mrs M
and Mr Ms recollections as well as look at the paperwork they have provided.
I cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs M and Mr M and Santander during the
meeting. Its completely understandable that Mrs M and Mr Ms recollections are not
detailed and as I have already said the sale took place many years ago. I have though
been able to look through the paperwork provided by Mrs M and Mr M. This includes part
of an application form for the mortgage, where MPPI is presented as optional with the
following line We recommend that your monthly mortgage payments are protected
There is also tick boxes underneath this with the box for first applicant is ticked.
Underneath this are the written words Quote reqd. Mrs M and Mr M have also supplied
a letter from September 1993 where a representative from Santander has written that
they are unable to provide a quote for MPPI unless they have a postcode. They give an
estimate of the cost of the policy at this point.
After seeing this paperwork, I can see that the MPPI policy was most likely presented in
the paperwork as an optional requirement. There does seem to be an additional issue
with Santander needing a postcode to provide a quote for the policy, but I cant be sure
that this wasnt provided at a later date, before the cover started in November 1993. And
because of this, the MPPI policy appearing to the presented as optional and considering
what I know of sales carried out by Santander at that time, I dont think the evidence is
strong enough for me safely to say Santander didnt explain that PPI was an optional
feature or that it added the policy without Mrs M and Mr Ms consent. I havent, on this
occasion, seen enough evidence to be able to safely draw the conclusion that they didnt
knowingly take out the policy.
Moving on, Mrs M and Mr M say the policy only covered Mr M, and this is not something
they would have agreed to. They say they found this out in 2001. The business has said
in their submission to our service that the MPPI covered both Mrs M and Mr M. I havent
seen anything within any of the documentation that the policy only covered Mr M, so I am
minded to think the policy did cover both Mrs M and Mr M.
With this in mind, I need to consider next whether Santander provided advice to Mrs M
and Mr M or not during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to
ensure the policy was suitable for them. On looking at the very limited information
provided and also taking into consideration what the parties have said, and what I know
of Santander sales during this time, I think advice was given.
And based on the information Ive seen, I think the policy was suitable for Mrs M and Mr
M. I say this after considering Mrs M and Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale.
Because, although Mrs M and Mr M say they had 6 months full sick pay and 6 months
half sick pay each and 3-6 months worth of savings they could have used, the MPPI
policy would have paid out in addition to their means. Having the policy in place would
mean Mrs M and Mr M could use any provisions they may have had to cover other
expenses. I dont think their means are sufficient for me reasonably to say that they
wouldnt have had at least some use for the policy.
Mrs M and Mr M was also not affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main
benefits. It is unlikely Mrs M and Mr M needed better advice or information about the
policys exclusions and limitations and if they had received clear information on these
terms, I dont think it would have put them off.
Finally, I am not sure if Santander gave Mrs M and Mr M clear information about the
costs of the policy, but even if it did, I dont think Mrs M and Mr M would have done
anything differently for the same reasons as I have already given. Ive also seen nothing
to suggest it was unaffordable.
In conclusion, it has been a difficult decision to make due to the lack of information provided
about this sale, but based on what I have, I currently do not think the policy was mis-sold.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision.
Santander has not responded.
Mrs M and Mr M have sent in a submission on 3 May 2021 and have made several 
points regarding their complaint and my provisional decision. I will summarise what I 
think the main issues are below, but I can assure them that I have considered all that 
they have said carefully. What I think the main issues they have raised are:
That I stated the mortgage & policy ended in October 2002. This say Mrs M and 
Mr M is not true. They say they re-negotiated the mortgage at this time, but PPI 
was not included and they went without cover from 2002 -2008 when the 
mortgage then ended.
Mrs M and Mr M re-affirm that they think the costs & benefits were not made clear to them and they say they ever received confirmation of costs. They ask 
why I have concluded they had some use for the policy. They also raised the 
issue of cover and that they wouldnt have agreed to a policy that didnt cover 
both of them.
Mrs M and Mr M also mention again that Santander didnt provide a quote for the 
PPI policy and that it said at the time it needed a postcode to do so, but this 
didnt happen.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will answer the points Mrs M and Mr M have raised in the order that I summarised them 
above. 
In my provisional decision I stated Mrs M and Mr Ms mortgage and PPI policy ended in 
October 2002 and they have said this was not true. Mrs M and Mr M say they re-negotiated 
their mortgage at this time and when they did this, PPI wasnt included. I acknowledge 
what they have said here, and this was my understanding too when I looked through the 
documentation provided by them. I can see that when they re-negotiated a new mortgage, 
the terms of their existing mortgage ended along with the PPI policy.
Mrs M and Mr M say they werent given clear information about the costs and benefits of the 
policy and also ask why I concluded they had some use for the policy. I said in my 
provisional decision that I wasnt sure if Santander gave Mrs M and Mr M clear information 
about the costs of the policy and I concluded this taking into consideration what they said. 
But even if Santander did provide clear information to them about the policy, I dont think Mrs 
M and Mr M would have done anything differently, as in I think they would more likely than 
not agreed to have the policy anyway. I concluded this because after looking at their 
circumstances at the time of sale, including what they could rely on in terms of sick pay and 
savings that they have told our service they received, I felt they would have had some use 
for the cover provided by the policy in an extended time of need because of an accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
I have looked again at the issue raised by Mrs M and Mr M over who was covered and 
particularly their point about the amount they were paying a month and that this suggests it 
only covered one person. They again re-iterate they wouldnt have accepted the policy if it 
only covered one of them and this suggests they didnt give their consent. I acknowledge 
what Mrs M and Mr M are saying here. I also have re-read the letter they say shows only Mr 
M was covered for the policy. I cant be sure if both Mrs M and Mr M were covered or 
whether Mr M was covered only. I say this because Santander has informed us that both 
Mrs M and Mr M were covered and then in the letter suggest only Mr M was. So, I can see 
the point they are making here. But I dont think it makes a difference to the outcome of the 
complaint. This is because, if Mr M was covered only, I still think he would have found some 
use for having the policy based on his circumstances at the time of sale. I am not persuaded 
based on what I have in front of me, that they wouldnt have given their consent to have the 
policy.  
Mrs M and Mr M also make comments about a sales documentation used by Santander and 
that it would provide a quote for the PPI policy once a postcode had been provided by them. 
Mrs M and Mr M say a quote from Santander about the costs of the policy never 
materialised. I concluded in my provisional decision that a postcode may well have been 
provided at a later date. But in any case, even if it wasnt, I have already concluded that I wasnt sure that Santander had given clear information about the policy, but even if it had, I 
think on balance Mrs M and Mr M would have taken the policy anyway for the reasons I have 
already given. I do understand what Mrs M and Mr M have said about this issue of the 
postcode, but I dont think it makes any difference to the outcome of their complaint. 
I know it will be a disappointment for Mrs M and Mr M and I do appreciate the time they 
have taken to respond to my provisional decision, but I dont uphold their complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman