DRN-4079828
The complaint
Mr D complains about the valuation Ageas Insurance Limited placed on his van following a 
claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants this to be increased. 
What happened
Mr Ds van was damaged in a collision, and he made a claim on his policy. Ageas declared 
the van to be a total loss and it offered him £9,624 including VAT, less the policy excess, in 
settlement of his claim. Mr D thought Admiral hadnt properly valued the van and hadnt 
taken into account its specification and the cost of replacing it. Mr D said he thought his van 
was worth 30% more, nearer £12,500. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She found 
valuations for Mr Ds van in two of the motor trade guides we use. Ageas offer was within 
the range of these valuations. Mr D provided adverts for similar vans, but she wasnt 
persuaded that these matched the age, condition or specification of his van. So she thought 
Ageas offer was fair and reasonable. 
Mr D disagreed and so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. Mr D said he 
would provide further information for me to consider, but I cant see that hes done this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr D wants a fair settlement for the loss of his van. I can see that his 
policy provides for the vans market value in the case of its total loss. The Investigator has 
explained this services approach to vehicle valuations. We dont provide valuations for vans 
but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Ageas said it located valuations for Mr Ds van in just two of the motor trade guides we use 
due to its age. Ageas engineers increased the valuation to take into account its specification 
and it offered Mr D £8,020 excluding VAT. But its only been able to provide us with sufficient 
information to validate one of these valuations. So I cant rely on the second one it provided. 
Our Investigator also checked the guides for vans of the same make, model, age, mileage 
and condition as Mr Ds van at the date of its loss. She was able to find only one valuation, 
for £8,639 excluding VAT. She validated the valuation Ageas found, £6,509 excluding VAT.  
Mr D provided adverts for similar vans offered at higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. And I can see that the vans in the adverts dont match the 
specification of Mr Ds van. So I dont think they should reasonably be considered to justify 
an increase in its valuation. 
Ageas offer for the market value of Mr Ds van was within the range of the valuations 
provided by the motor trade guides. So I cant say that it was unfair or unreasonable. And I 
dont require Ageas to increase this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman