DRN-2168848
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way in which Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) dealt with his home
emergency claim following a breakdown of his boiler.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr S boiler broke down and he was without heating and hot water. IPA
sent an engineer to his home. The boiler was potentially leaking carbon monoxide and so,
understandably, was deemed dangerous. The engineer disconnected it and reported that
repairs would be required, to include a new control panel and a replacement gasket.
Mr S has said that IPAs engineer told him that the boiler could be repaired and that he
should chase up the insurance company to ensure that approval was given quickly. He could
then source the parts and return to complete the job.
Mr S chased up IPA but was told that the boiler was deemed to be beyond economic repair
(BER). Accordingly, it said that its liability was limited to a contribution of £250 toward a new
boiler.
IPA offered to supply Mr S with some heaters under the terms of the policy. But Mr S went
out and got his own at a cost of £42.99. Given that IPA had said it wouldnt deal with his
claim any further, Mr S had no choice but to go out and order a new boiler. This was fitted a
couple of days later. After the boiler was fitted, Mr S asked an engineer why the original
boiler couldnt have been fixed. He says he was told that it couldve been.
Unhappy with what he had been told, Mr S complained to IPA. It said that the boiler was
BER and so there was nothing more it had to do. It did, however, recognise that Mr S
needed to chase up IPAs decision and had been put to unnecessary trouble and
inconvenience as a result. It offered him £100 compensation for that. Mr S has not cashed
that cheque and bought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld, having reached the
conclusion that the boiler was, more likely than not, BER. Mr S didnt agree and asked for an
ombudsmans decision.
In advance of this final decision, I issued a provisional decision to the parties in which I said I 
intended to uphold Mr S complaint. In response Mr S sent us a copy of his receipt for the 
heater which we sent on to IPA. It acknowledged receipt but didnt provide any further 
response to the provisional decision. Mr S had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I reached the following findings:
Mr S home emergency policy provides cover to resolve the emergency. In Mr S case, the
emergency was that he didnt have any heating or hot water. The terms of his policy provide
that IPA will pay for an engineer to repair a boiler to resolve the emergency. Here the
engineer disconnected the boiler to make it safe and ensure that there wasnt any danger of
carbon monoxide being released. But he didnt solve the emergency, as Mr S and his wife
were still left without hot water and heating.
So, the claim remained open. The engineers report details that the repair necessary was a
gasket replacement and a new control panel. He didnt say anything in that report about the
boiler not being repairable. What would generally happen next is that IPA would be
approached to approve the repairs. Its case notes indicate that, after some calls to the
engineers, it then deemed the boiler to be BER.
BER is defined in the policy as:
When we determine that the cost to repair the boiler within the primary heating system in
your home will exceed its replacement value or where the replacement parts are no longer
readily available
There is no evidence that IPA obtained a quote from the engineer for the replacement parts
and labour. Or that it would have exceeded the cost of a replacement. Instead, IPA seems to
have based its decision on its belief that the boiler was 11 years old and that it hadnt been
serviced over the years. Mr S has provided evidence of the boilers service history which
shows it was serviced annually from 2013 to 2019. He says it was about 7 to 8 years old. I
find this is likely to be correct, given the service history dates and Mr S evidence that he
bought the original boiler form the same people who replaced it recently.
So, its my finding that Mr S boiler wasnt BER. And that IPA didnt act reasonably in
reaching the conclusion that it was. An 8-year old boiler could still have had many years life
left in it. And from the pictures Ive seen, other than the repairs identified, theres nothing to
indicate that there was any extensive damage to the boiler from the gasket leak.
Mr S and his wife are both pensioners. And being without hot water and heating for the 3 to
4 days that this went on cannot have been easy, particularly as Mrs S hadnt been very well
and it was winter. Mr S has told us that he didnt take IPA up on its offer to provide heaters
as it was easier to get his own. I can also appreciate why he may not have wanted to involve
IPA further, given its decision on his claim. I note that he bought a heater. But it doesnt
appear that IPA have paid for this. I think it should, particularly given that the policy provides
cover for alternative accommodation up to £250.
Mr S had to chase up IPA for a decision on his claim and then follow up on what I have
found was an unreasonable decision. All this time Mr S and his wife were without hot water
and heating. So, Ive provisionally decided that IPA should increase the compensation
offered from £100 to £200.
Mr S had his boiler replaced at a total cost of £1,302.85, including VAT. In determining what
I think is fair compensation for this element of his complaint, Ive taken into account the age
of Mr S boiler, the cover limit under the policy of £1,000 per emergency and the costs that
IPA may have been expected to incur had it fixed Mr S boiler as it should have done.
Mr S may not have had to replace his boiler for many years if IPA had fixed it. But, given the
boiler was over 8 years old, equally it may have had further problems down the line. Mr S
now has a brand-new boiler. And hopefully that should give him many years of service. So,
Ive provisionally decided that IPA should pay Mr S £800 toward the cost of his new boiler.
Thats within the limits of what it would have had to pay anyway under the terms of thepolicy. And I think the repair could well have cost IPA around £500 in any event, given the
price of the parts in an internet search we carried out.
Mr S also now has a new boiler. So, arguably, hes in a better position that he would have
been had the boiler been repaired, given his new boiler should hopefully not give him any
further trouble for many more years to come and, I expect, will have a warranty. But it has of
course cost him over £1,300 to achieve that. And hes out of pocket. So, I think that an £800
contribution by IPA is fair here. Thats more than half the cost of the new boiler. And takes
into account that Mr S had to pay for a new boiler but should now hopefully save on having 
to make any repairs to it and/or replace it for many years to come.
As Ive received no further evidence from the parties, I dont see any need to change my 
findings which I confirm are adopted in full in this final decision.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold Mr S complaint. I require that Inter Partner
Assistance SA do the following:
Pay Mr S a total of £200 for the trouble and upset hes been caused. I understand
hes not cashed the cheque for £100 already issued and so IPA should arrange to
cancel that and pay the new amount.
Pay Mr S £42.99 for his heater;
Pay £800 toward the cost of Mr S new boiler.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman