DRN-1772850
The complaint
Mrs J has complained that Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans irresponsibly provided 
her with an unaffordable guarantor loan. She also says that Buddy Loans should have done 
more to help her when she had difficulties meeting her loan repayments. 
What happened
Mrs J was given a guarantor loan by Buddy Loans in May 2019 for £10,000. 
Mrs Js loan was to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of around £395. The total amount 
due to be repaid over the five-year loan term, including interest, was just over £23,700. I 
understand Mrs J had difficulties making the loan repayments and the loan is outstanding.
Mrs J has also complained that the guarantor for her loan was also guaranteeing another 
loan for her, and that Advancis should have realised this. I have not been provided with any 
further information about this issue. In this sort of situation, if a guarantor is unhappy about 
what happened when they guaranteed a loan, the guarantor should raise it separately with 
the lender. My decision deals solely with Mrs Js complaint as the borrower.  
One of our investigators has looked into the complaint. She didnt think Buddy Loans should 
have provided Mrs J with the loan and she asked the lender to put things right. Buddy Loans 
didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision about the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans on our 
website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Ive considered this approach when deciding Mrs Js complaint.
Buddy Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mrs J 
irresponsibly. 
I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Buddy Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs J was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? If not, what would reasonable 
and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Buddy Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs J in some other way?
Buddy Loans was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment (and a similar 
assessment on the guarantor). This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Buddy Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs J. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for Buddy Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mrs J. The 
existence of a guarantee and the potential for Buddy Loans to pursue the guarantor instead 
of Mrs J for the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or dilute this obligation. 
Buddy Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs J 
would be able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Buddy Loans 
had to do, but it could take into account a number of different things such as the loan 
amount, the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall 
financial circumstances. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).Buddy Loans asked Mrs J for information about her income and expenditure and it acquired 
a credit report. Buddy Loans has told us it performs a number of checks to confirm the 
information provided by the borrower. It thinks that the checks it carried out before it agreed 
to lend to Mrs J were reasonable and proportionate, and that the loan was affordable for her.
But I dont think its enough for a lender to simply carry out checks. I would expect a lender 
to respond appropriately to the information it gathers when assessing a customers 
application for lending. The information gathered by Buddy Loans for its credit report showed 
that Mrs J had a history of accounts that had defaulted and that she had four County Court 
Judgments on her file. The credit report highlighted that Mrs J had an impaired credit 
history. The reasons given for the credit score are listed as Number of default accounts; 
Number of Judgments/Insolvencies recorded, Arrears status on accounts; High credit limit 
utilisation on accounts.
So I think that Buddy Loans was aware that Mrs J had experienced previous difficulties with 
credit and that she also had an outstanding loan of around £8,700 with another lender, which 
Buddy Loans says she was intending to consolidate.
The rules and guidance suggest that the risk of any credit not being sustainable directly 
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the 
customers financial situation. Mrs J was applying to Buddy Loans for an expensive loan 
which, if it ran to term, would cost her in the region of £23,000. Mrs Js credit report showed 
she had previously had difficulties managing her financial situation and that these difficulties 
had continued - as she had taken out not only the loan for £8,700 but now also a £10,000 
loan from Buddy Loans to help repay this earlier borrowing. 
Buddy Loans might have been prepared to accept this credit risk because the loan had a 
guarantor who was equally liable with Mrs J. This might have given Buddy Loans more 
confidence that the loan repayments would be made. Buddy Loans says the guarantor is in 
place as much to provide reassurance that the customer is in a better financial circumstance, 
than to make payments should the applicant not be able to. But I dont think that the 
existence of the guarantor, on its own, meant that Mrs J herself would be able to sustainably 
make the repayments.
I appreciate that, given the nature of this type of lending, there might be some adverse 
information on a borrowers credit report. But in these particular circumstances, I think Buddy 
Loans ought reasonably to have considered that Mrs J had previously had serious difficulties 
managing her money; that she was already significantly indebted and she was going to have 
to maintain her loan repayments every month for five years. There was a real possibility that 
the guarantor would be required to step in and make the payments on her behalf. 
Buddy Loans has told us it had verified Mrs Js income and it doesnt think additional checks 
were necessary at the time.  It also thinks the bank statement it subsequently obtained 
shows no sign of any financial difficulties that would have rendered the loan unaffordable. 
The bank statement I have seen shows that Mrs J was continually in her overdraft. Only 
when Mrs J received her Buddy Loan did the account return to credit. Buddy Loans also 
says that, even if Mrs J had continued repaying her other lending as well as her Buddy Loan, 
she would still have had sufficient sustainable income available every month. But as Ive 
already explained, Buddy Loans was required to establish whether Mrs J could sustainably 
make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Buddy Loans says it was not increasing Mrs Js indebtedness because she was going to use 
its loan to consolidate her other loan. But given the overall cost of its lending over the full 
term, I think Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have realised that its lending was likely to 
prolong Mrs Js indebtedness and could potentially increase it, for this consumer who was 
already struggling financially.
In the circumstances, given the extent of Mrs Js difficulties with previous credit, her 
outstanding County Court Judgments and her overall level of indebtedness, as well as the 
amount being lent, the repayment amounts and the extended length of the loan term, I think 
Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have realised that Mrs J was having serious difficulties 
managing her finances. I think Buddy Loans was aware that Mrs J was borrowing in order to 
repay previous lending and would also most likely need to borrow elsewhere to repay her 
loan from Buddy Loans. Taking things as a whole,  I think Buddy Loans ought reasonably 
have realised that it was unlikely that Mrs J would be able to sustainably repay her loan over 
the full term. So it should reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to 
her. 
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs J in some other way?
Mrs J thinks Buddy Loans should have done more to help her when she experienced 
difficulties repaying her loan. But I havent seen sufficient evidence for me to fairly say that 
Buddy Loans failed to treat Mrs J positively and sympathetically at the time.  So I cant say 
that Buddy Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs J in some other way. 
But I am upholding Mrs Js complaint about the loan and Buddy Loans should put things 
right for her.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs J to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt have been provided to her.  
I understand that the loan is still outstanding. Buddy Loans should try to agree an affordable 
repayment arrangement with Mrs J in respect of any outstanding balance - bearing in mind 
the need to treat her positively and sympathetically in those discussions. 
If Buddy Loans has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back, if its able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Buddy Loans isnt able to buy the debt back then it should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Buddy Loans should:
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mrs J made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If the 
payments Mrs J has made total more than the amount she was originally lent, then 
any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to her with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they were paid by Mrs 
J to the date the complaint is settled. b) If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated above should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on the loan. If this results in a surplus then the 
surplus should be paid to Mrs J. However if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Buddy Loans should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs J.
c) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Js credit file as a result of this 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to deduct tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans should give Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Js complaint and direct Advancis Limited trading as 
Buddy Loans to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman