DRN-3693137
The complaint
Mr G complains that Purchase Protection Insurance was withdrawn from his credit card by 
Jaja Finance Ltd without his knowledge. 
What happened
In 2007 Mr G opened a credit card with a business Ill refer to as P. Mr G has explained the 
credit card came with Purchase Protection Insurance. A copy of Ps updated terms and 
conditions from 2016 has been provided that shows the credit card had Purchase Protection 
Insurance at that time. 
In September 2020 Jaja acquired Mr Gs credit card from P. Jaja says it updated the credit 
card terms and conditions and sent notification to card holders, including Mr G, in October 
2020. As part of the update, Purchase Protection Insurance was removed from the credit 
card. 
Last year, Mr G contacted Jaja to make a claim in relation to a mobile phone. But Jaja said 
there was no Purchase Protection Insurance covering Mr Gs credit card. Mr G complained 
but Jaja said there was no evidence Purchase Protection Insurance was included in the 
original credit card terms with P. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Gs complaint but thought Jaja had dealt with it 
fairly. Mr G asked to appeal and said Jaja had failed to provide evidence it communicated 
updates to its terms and conditions, including the removal of the Purchase Protection 
Insurance. As Mr G asked to appeal his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have terms and conditions going back to 2016, when the credit card was still with P, on 
file. And the terms show Mr Gs credit card included Purchase Protection Cover at that time. 
Mr Gs also explained he previously used the insurance. But Jajas explained the cover was 
removed from the terms and conditions when it took over the credit card in September 2020. 
And Jaja says that information was communicated to all its customers. I appreciate its Mr 
Gs view that he wasnt made aware of the updated terms. 
I think its reasonable to say that business can change the terms and conditions of a credit 
card. So whilst P offered Purchase Protection Insurance, there was provision within the 
associated terms that changes could be made in the future. And one of the changes Jaja 
decided to make was removing the cover when it took over the credit card. Jaja has provided 
a copy of an email it says was sent to all its customers. The email notes that terms and 
conditions will be updated and specifically notes the Purchase Protection Insurance is being 
cancelled. 
Weve asked Jaja to provide evidence that shows it informed Mr G the credit card terms 
were due to change. Jaja has provided a welcome email it sent to Mr G shortly after it took 
over his account. The email gives a welcome message then says Your new Terms and 
Conditions and Privacy Notice became effective on 3 October 2020 and can be found here. 
The email also included instructions on what to do when Mr G received his new Jaja 
branded credit card along with associated information about its features. So Im satisfied Mr 
G was notified that new terms had been put in place by Jaja.  
Jaja has also provided copies of mass communications it sent to all credit card holders 
impacted by the change in business. The correspondence includes references to the 
updated terms and conditions along with changes to the way the credit card would work. 
Based on all the available evidence Im satisfied Jaja did contact Mr G with confirmation the 
terms and conditions of the credit card were changing, including the withdrawal of the 
Purchase Protection Insurance. 
Mr G says Jaja confirmed the credit card terms hadnt changed during a call in September 
2021. Ive listened to the call. The agent confirmed there was no associated insurance 
product but that the credit card had a facility where by a dispute could be raised. During the 
call, Mr G asked whether he had insurance to cover a lost or stolen mobile phone and the 
agent confirmed there was none. I appreciate the call handler incorrectly said there were no 
changes to the terms and conditions and I agree that caused some confusion. But Im 
satisfied Jaja has since confirmed no Purchase Protection Insurance existed from the point it 
acquired the credit card. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but, as noted above, Im satisfied the credit cards terms and 
conditions were amended when Jaja took over. And Im satisfied the changes included the 
removal of previously provided Purchase Protection Insurance. The information Ive seen 
shows Jaja did contact customers about the changes to their credit card accounts and Im 
satisfied its more likely than not that they were sent to Mr G as claimed. Im very sorry to 
disappoint Mr G but I havent been persuaded to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 
10 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman