DRN-3069221
The complaint
Mr A is seeking to recover £8,986.53 from Barclays Bank UK plc, which was stolen from his 
bank account as a result of a third-party scam.
What happened
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 6 August 2021 covered the 
detailed timeline of the transactions and the details of Mr As testimony. But in summary Mr 
A told us:
He came across a forex trading investment opportunity through an advertisement on a social 
media website around December 2018. Initially, he invested around £200 using his credit 
card so that he could be protected. He then requested a refund which he received. Mr A was 
then contacted again by the scammers and convinced that he should invest more. On 21 
December 2018, he invested 300 euros using his credit card and was given access to an 
online portal in which he could view his investments. He also signed a traders declaration 
form. The scammers continued to call Mr A over a period of time saying he was missing out 
and now was a good time to invest further. Mr A could see how well his 300 euros was 
doing, so transferred two further payments of £4,472.67 and £4,513.86 on 24 January 2019 
and 12 February 2019.
Mr A says he researched the company but there were no warnings online at the time and he 
was also sent documents to sign. When he later tried to withdraw the funds, he was told that 
the investments had crashed, and hed need to invest a further £20,000. It was at this point, 
Mr A realised it was a scam.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think Barclays went far enough and an
opportunity was missed to discuss the payment Mr A was making. Had appropriate 
questions been asked, she thought the scam would have been prevented. She didnt think 
Mr A had acted unreasonably, as he carried out checks before proceeding.
Barclays initially said it is not liable for the loss because Mr A unwittingly authorised the 
payment  and it provided clear warnings and guidance. It then agreed to refund 50% of the 
transactions as it accepts the transactions should have triggered on its systems. But it feels 
Mr A failed to meet requisite level of care and he has failed to protect and safeguard himself 
by being negligent and not conducting the relevant checks to ensure he was dealing with a 
legitimate regulated investment company.
As the case could not be decided informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator, broadly for the same 
reasons.
It is not in dispute that Mr A authorised two scam payments totalling almost £9,000. He was 
duped by the scammers into instructing his bank to transfer that sum to their fake online 
trading platform. They deceived him over email and through phone calls into thinking he was 
making an investment. So, although he did not intend the money to go to the scammers, 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the term and conditions of his account, 
Mr A is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Barclays has accepted that the payments were unusual and should therefore have triggered 
on its systems. I agree here, Barclays ought fairly and reasonably to have identified that Mr 
A was potentially at risk of financial harm. Im persuaded that as a matter of good practice, 
Barclays should have made additional checks, and made enquiries as to the purpose of the 
payments before processing them. 
Im also satisfied, if the bank had asked Mr A about the transfer, that he would have willingly 
explained what it was for  a forex trading investment. I say that because theres no 
suggestion in this case that the scammer had given Mr A a cover story or otherwise told him 
to lie about where the money was going. With this in mind, I think the bank could, relatively 
easily, have identified and warned Mr A of the possibility he was being scammed.
Ive thought carefully about what Barclays obligations were, as set out above. But another 
key issue is whether Mr A acted reasonably taking into account all the circumstances of the 
scam. So, I have also considered whether Mr A should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence.
Barclays has suggested Mr A didnt exercise enough reasonable care and should have 
carried out further checks. Mr A told us he searched online and couldnt find anything 
concerning. I can see there are now negative reviews about the organisation online, but 
these all postdate Mr As transactions. Mr A had correspondence with a number of different 
people from the organisation over a period of time. He tested the organisation by initially 
making small payments using his credit card. He received a refund for the first payment 
which reassured him. When he made the second small payment using his credit card  he 
was then given access to on online portal which further reassured him. So, I can see why he didnt suspect he was being scammed. I do not think he could have foreseen the risk that the 
company he was dealing with was a scam and the trading account he was viewing was likely 
to be a simulation. Overall, I think this was a very sophisticated and believable scam, 
particularly for someone in Mr As situation who did not  as I understand it  have any 
previous experience of investing.
Im satisfied Mr A had been entirely duped by the scammers. But I dont think it follows that 
he would have ignored warnings from his own bank if it had contacted him in relation to the 
transfers. He was paying a large amount of money and I think he would have taken seriously 
the warnings from a trusted third party. I think its more likely than not, in this particular case, 
that Barclays intervention would have uncovered the scam and prevented the losses 
occurring.
I think Barclays should have intervened earlier and this action would likely have unravelled 
the fraud. I am satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion, Mr A was 
simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster.
In the circumstances I am satisfied Barclays should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr A for 
the loss he suffered without any reduction together with interest to compensate him for being 
deprived of the money he lost.  
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about Barclays Bank UK plc  and I therefore require the bank to:
- refund Mr A the £4,472.67 and £4,513.86 lost as part of the scam,
- pay 8% simple interest per year on each transaction above from the 
date Mr A made the transfer to the date of settlement*;
*If Barclays Bank UK plc deducts tax from the interest element of this award, it should 
provide Mr A with the appropriate tax certificate so he might submit a claim to HMRC if 
applicable
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman