DRN-3931184
The complaint
Mr M complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a claim on his car insurance 
policy. 
What happened
AXA received a claim from a third party and so contacted Mr M about it and asked for 
pictures of Mr Ms car. Mr M disputed he was involved in the incident and asked for details of 
the claim and provided AXA with the pictures of his car. AXA said it responded to the third 
party claim and asked for evidence for it to assess. As nothing further was received from the 
third party, after six months AXA closed the claim and recorded it as not incurring any costs. 
Mr M wasnt happy with how AXA had dealt with this claim and complained. He said hed 
had an open claim on his policy which meant hed had to pay a higher premium when he 
took out a new policy. He also said AXA hadnt kept him updated or handled the third party 
claim as hed expected and asked AXA to refund his premium. As AXA didnt respond to Mr 
M he brought his complaint here. 
After the complaint was referred here AXA issued its final response and upheld it. It said it 
hadnt proactively chased the third party as much as it could have and apologised to Mr M 
for this. However, AXA said it had defended Mr Ms claim with the third party and it was 
correct for it to remain open while it was investigated. AXA said it was normal for it to close a 
claim down after six months if nothing further was received from the third party. As it hadnt 
received anything after six months it closed Mr Ms claim down. AXA offered Mr M £200 for 
the poor claim handling. 
Mr M said AXA hadnt responded to him or kept him updated during the claim and he only 
got a response when he complained. Because of this he didnt feel AXA had fulfilled its side 
of the contract between them and asked for his premium to be refunded. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend AXA doing anything 
further. She found that AXA hadnt handled the claim as well as it should have. However as 
the claim had been closed after six months, as it should have, she thought AXAs offer was 
in line with what shed expect and so didnt ask AXA to do anything else. Mr M disagreed 
and said AXA had lied and not handled the third party claim as well as it should have.
As Mr M didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy, like most policies we see, give AXA the right to 
take over the defence or settlement of any claim, as it sees fit. That means it might make a
decision Mr M disagrees with and not try to recover its outlay or settle a claim from the third
party or their insurer. But wed look at whether AXA made a reasonable decision in doing
this based on the evidence it had and the circumstances of the case.
AXA said it wrote to the third party and defended Mr Ms claim. It also said as no response 
was received from the third party it closed the claim after six months, in line with its normal 
process. I understand Mr M doesnt agree AXA acted in his best interests, however, Ive 
seen the letter sent to Mr M which confirms AXA hasnt paid out anything for this claim and 
that its not affected his no claims discount (NCD). I understand Mr M said when he took out 
a new policy there was an open claim and so hes paid a higher premium. As this claim is 
now close hes able to let his new insurer know that and ask whether it would refund the 
difference in premium. 
I can also see AXA acknowledged it didnt handle the claim as proactively and as well as it 
should have. I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling about this and feel it may help to 
explain that our role isnt to punish a business but to see if its made an error. If a business 
does make an error, wed look to see what impact its had and put Mr M back in the position 
he would have been but for the error. 
In this case AXA hasnt handled the claim well or kept Mr M sufficiently updated, there has 
been communication attempts not responded to and this has led to Mr M having to chase 
AXA to try and find out what has happened with his claim. And while this is disappointing to 
see I dont agree AXA needs to refund his premium. I say this because the premium isnt just 
to provide a service if a claim arises, and Mr M has had the benefit of his policy providing 
cover as it should do. While there have been failings by AXA when handling this claim Im 
satisfied £200 is sufficient compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience its 
caused Mr M. Im therefore not going to tell AXA to pay anything else, AXA need to pay Mr 
M £200 if not already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc needs to 
pay Mr M £200 for distress and inconvenience, if not already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman