DRN-2172500
The complaint
Mr P complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) unfairly prevented him porting 
his mortgage product to a new buy to let property which meant that he had to pay an early 
repayment charge (ERC). Mr P would like a refund of a proportion of the ERC as TMW had 
no factual basis to refuse his application to port.
What happened
Mr P had a buy to let mortgage with TMW and related fixed rate mortgage products. If the 
mortgage was redeemed, Mr P would have to pay an ERC, but this could be avoided if he 
could transfer the mortgage products to a new property. Mr P wanted to downsize the 
mortgage and buy another buy to let. Mr P applied to TMW for a mortgage on a new 
property, but the mortgage was refused. Although Mr P said that he wanted to use the 
property as a buy to let on an assured shorthold tenancy (AST) basis. TMW said that it 
believed that the property was likely to be let as a holiday home or a house of multiple 
occupancy either of which uses was contrary to the terms and conditions of its buy to let 
mortgage. In its letter to Mr P of 27 February 2020 TMW said that the property was being 
used as a holiday let and given the type, location and history of its letting that it was likely 
that Mr P would continue to be use it as such. 
Mr P said that it was his intention to rent the property out to a family on an AST. TMWs 
underwriter reviewed the application but upheld the decline. Mr P believes that TMWs 
decline was influenced by the large ERC that would become payable to TMW if they refused 
the port and says that its unfair to be declined a mortgage on a mere belief. Our 
investigator wasnt of the view that TMW had done anything wrong and didnt recommend 
that this complaint should be upheld. Mr P disagreed and asked for a review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P had a buy to let mortgage with TMW which had an ERC payable if the mortgage was 
redeemed. Mr P could potentially port his mortgage but the ability to port depended on TMW 
approving a new mortgage on the property Mr P wanted to buy. TMW was unwilling to grant 
a mortgage on this particular property as it took the view that it was likely to be used as a 
holiday let and so outside the uses permitted under the terms of its buy to let mortgage.
Clearly, its a matter for TMW to decide whether it wants to lend money on a particular 
property. My role is to decide whether its decision to refuse a mortgage on this particular 
property was reasonable. Mr P says he wanted to use it to let to a family. TMW says that it 
was presently being used as a holiday let. It had five bedrooms and three reception rooms, 
so possibly seven lettable rooms, over the maximum rooms for a standard buy to let. The 
evidence was that it was being let as a holiday let and TMW believed that it would likely be 
so again. Thats not an unreasonable view by TMW with some substance given the type of 
property, location and size and history. I have also seen figures that suggest that the 
property would earn a substantially higher income as a holiday let than as an AST. The 
lender is entitled to make an assessment of the likely future use of a mortgaged property and 
although Mr P may disagree strongly with that, I cant agree that TMWs assessment was 
unreasonable. Ive also seen evidence both provided by TMW and my own internet search 
that the property is presently available for holiday let bookings which would indicate that 
TMWs assessment of its likely use was correct. I recognise that Mr P had to pay a 
substantial ERC because he couldnt port his mortgage product to this particular property but 
that it was open to him to port to another property whose use was within TMWs buy to let 
guidelines. So, for the above reasons, I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman