DRN-3250517
The complaint
Mr O complains because Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) hasnt paid a claim 
under his travel insurance policy. 
All references to Great Lakes include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its 
behalf. 
What happened
Mr O held a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. The policy had a trip 
start date of 7 March 2020 and ended on 29 March 2020. The insurance covered Mr Os 
declared pre-existing medical condition.  
Unfortunately, while Mr O was abroad, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 as 
a pandemic and both the UK and foreign governments began to introduce travel restrictions. 
Mr O therefore remained abroad for around six months longer than planned and 
subsequently made a claim under his policy with Great Lakes for additional accommodation 
costs and for medication he needed for his pre-existing medical condition.  
Great Lakes said Mr Os policy didnt cover his claim. Unhappy, Mr O complained to Great 
Lakes before bringing the matter to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said he didnt think Great Lakes 
had acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining Mr Os claim. Mr O didnt agree with our 
investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is independent and impartial, and we make decisions 
based on what we think is fair and reasonable to both parties in all the circumstances of a 
complaint. When making my final decision about Mr Os complaint, Ive considered 
everything he has told us, as well as the information which Great Lakes holds about Mr Os 
claim. This information includes records of Great Lakes communications with Mr O and the 
evidence Mr O sent to Great Lakes in connection with his claim. 
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making my final decision. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but no insurance policy covers every situation. The policy which 
Mr O bought simply doesnt cover additional accommodation costs if a trip is extended in 
these circumstances. Ive reviewed every section of the policy which Mr O held, but he didnt 
buy cover which would pay a benefit for this part of his claim. 
Mr Os policy, like most (if not all) travel insurance policies on the market, also doesnt cover 
medication which is known to be required at the time of the policyholders departure. So, Mr 
Os claim for these costs isnt covered under his policy, regardless of the reason why he was 
unable to obtain his usual medication. 
I understand Mr O says he was never provided with a copy of the policy documentation. This 
isnt Great Lakes responsibility. If Mr O has a complaint about the way this policy was sold 
to him, then hed need to complain directly to the business who sold him the policy before 
our service would have the power to look into the matter. But the fact that Mr O may not 
have had policy documentation doesnt mean it would be fair and reasonable for Great 
Lakes to accept his claim when it isnt otherwise covered under his policy. Mr O says he was 
given a telephone number when he bought the policy. So, Mr O could have contacted Great 
Lakes to confirm what he had cover for when he became aware that he wouldnt be able to 
return to the UK on 29 March 2020 as planned.  
I dont think Mr Os claim is covered under the terms and conditions of his policy, and I dont 
think Great Lakes has acted unfairly or unreasonably by declining the claim. So, I wont be 
asking Great Lakes to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman