DRN-2215381
The complaint
Mrs W complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited has unfairly 
refused to pay her solicitors fees under her legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
During Mrs Ws employment, she made some protective disclosures. As she was concerned 
about the implications of whistleblowing, she contacted DAS in January 2020 to make a 
claim for interim relief. DAS advised Mrs W that as she was still employed at that time, there 
was no legal claim she could pursue under the policy.
Mrs W returned to DAS about a week later to advise that shed been dismissed that day, and 
she had seven days to apply for interim relief. DAS advised her that she should exhaust her 
employers internal grievance process before pursuing a legal route, and offered her access 
to the legal helpline for advice. When Mrs W protested, DAS agreed to instruct a panel firm 
of solicitors, advising Mrs W that she couldnt use a solicitor of her own choice at that stage.
After seven days, Mrs W hadnt heard from the solicitors. So she called DAS to find out what 
was happening. She was told the solicitors had reported a conflict of interest meaning they 
couldnt represent her. It was agreed her case would be passed to a second panel firm. Mrs 
W was contacted by the second solicitors the next day. They advised her that she needed to 
complete the ACAS early conciliation process, and said they couldnt represent her until 
shed sent all the documents about her claim and a merits assessment had been completed.
During this time, Mrs W had instructed her own solicitors to ensure she didnt miss the court 
deadline. An interim relief court hearing was set for late February 2020.
In mid-February 2020, the second solicitors contacted Mrs W to advise that theyd completed 
the merits assessment and they were satisfied the claim did have reasonable prospects of 
success, so it would be covered by the policy. But Mrs W didnt feel the solicitor would have 
adequate time to get up to speed with the claim as the hearing was only a week away. She 
said shed remain with her chosen solicitor and would return to the panel firm after the 
hearing if she needed continued representation for the unfair dismissal claim.
Mrs W wants DAS to reimburse her for the legal costs of the interim relief claim, on the basis 
that it failed to provide her with representation in time. DAS has declined cover, saying the 
policy doesnt cover costs incurred before a claim has been accepted. So Mrs W has 
brought a complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that when Mrs W first made 
her claim, she was still employed so there was no action DAS could take under the policy. 
Once Mrs Ws employment had been terminated, DAS appointed solicitors the next day.
Our investigator identified that the first panel firm took a week to tell DAS that they were 
conflicted. Whilst this caused some delay, she didnt think DAS was responsible for this. She 
noted that once the conflict was known, DAS appointed another panel firm that day.
Because of this, our investigator didnt think DAS could have done anything more to get 
cover in place for Mrs Ws interim relief deadline. So she didnt recommend that it reimburse 
Mrs Ws legal costs.
Mrs W didnt agree. She felt DAS should have dealt with her claim when she first reported it, 
before she was dismissed. And she said the only reason it dealt with the claim after she was 
dismissed was because she constantly chased.
Mrs W also says DAS should take responsibility for its panel firms actions. She says they 
caused delays which meant she had no choice but to use her own solicitor, otherwise she 
would have missed her court deadline. So she feels DAS should be responsible for her legal 
fees.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision. In the provisional 
decision I said:
Mrs Ws policy provides cover for her legal costs for a dispute relating to her contract of 
employment. The only specific limits on this section are that theres no cover for negotiating 
a compromise agreement while still employed, or employment claims concerning injury. 
Theres nothing to say cover doesnt extend to interim relief.
As with most policies, theres no cover for costs incurred before DAS has accepted the 
claim.
When Mrs W initially notified DAS of her claim, she was still employed. I appreciate that Mrs 
W says she knew she would be dismissed as a result of the protective disclosures. But Im 
satisfied there wasnt a claim she could have pursued at this time for either interim relief or 
unfair dismissal, which are the two elements to Mrs Ws case. So I dont think DAS needed 
to do anything at this stage.
But once Mrs Ws employment was terminated, she contacted DAS again and she made it 
clear that she had seven days to apply for interim relief. At this point, I would expect DAS to 
act promptly in getting a solicitor appointed. Whilst it did so the next day, I think this was 
largely due to Mrs W persistence  DAS had referred Mrs W back to her employers to go 
through the internal grievance procedure. Whilst this may be appropriate for her unfair 
dismissal claim, this did not take into account the fact that Mrs W was seeking cover for 
interim relief. DAS has referred to its service standards and I appreciate that, in most cases, 
they would apply. But Mrs W stressed repeatedly that the situation was urgent and she only 
had seven days to lodge her application.
On review of DAS file, I can see that five days after instructing the panel firm, it became 
apparent they hadnt received DAS instructions. So these were re-sent. And three days after 
that, the solicitors said there was a conflict of interest and they couldnt act.
Whilst another solicitor was appointed that same day, I havent seen anything to suggest 
DAS made them aware of Mrs Ws intention to seek interim relief or the impending deadline. 
And in an email to them a week later, DAS advised that Mrs W was seeking cover to 
negotiate a settlement, which isnt covered by the policy. I havent seen anything to indicate 
that Mrs W was seeking cover to negotiate a settlement or that she was told there was no 
cover under the policy for this.
By the time Mrs W was contacted by the second panel firm, her deadline had passed. If she 
had waited until then it would have been too late for her to act.
From everything Ive seen, I can appreciate Mrs Ws frustration with DAS handling of her 
claim. DAS did not get to grips with the crux of the claim and continued to refer Mrs W to the usual process for employment disputes. It failed to take into account that this was not a 
typical claim. It was a quite different situation, where she was seeking urgent cover for 
interim relief, but DAS didnt mention this to the solicitors it instructed, or mention the 
urgency involved.
I dont think it was solely DAS actions that caused the delays in getting cover in place for the 
deadline. It seems the first panel firm didnt receive the instructions initially and then took 
time to complete their conflict of interest checks. And I wouldnt normally hold DAS 
responsible for the solicitors actions as they are a separate entity with their own service 
standards and complaints process. But where the situation is urgent, I would expect DAS to 
be on top of things and checking to make sure any urgent deadlines were met. And DAS 
seems to accept this  in a call on 27 January 2020, the call handler told Mrs W that if she 
was looking to take legal action with a tight deadline, if she told them of the deadline he 
would prioritise the claim. In a call the following day she stressed the urgency, as she didnt 
want to miss the small window of opportunity to make a claim.
In mid-February 2020, Mrs Ws claim was accepted under the policy. The second panel firm 
confirmed that it had reasonable prospects of success and offered to represent Mrs W in the 
interim relief hearing.
Looking at the sequence of events as a whole. Im not satisfied it was prioritised and dealt 
with as quickly as it could have been. Understandably, Mrs W didnt want to change 
solicitors so close to the hearing and opted to remain with her own solicitor until the hearing 
was over.
At this point, Mrs W should have contacted DAS to seek cover for her own solicitors legal 
fees. As she didnt, DAS has declined to cover these costs as they were incurred without 
approval. Strictly speaking, the policy wording would exclude these costs. But I have to 
consider whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of this case.
Mrs W has explained that she was focused on the urgent application. I can understand why 
she would need to devote her time to that. I think that if Mrs W had contacted DAS, cover 
would have been agreed as proceedings were issued and the claim had been accepted. And 
Ive taken into account that she had explained things to DAS and said she would be seeking 
to recover costs. So DAS was on notice of that. In the particular circumstances here, my 
view is that the fair thing to do is for DAS to repay those costs, which it would have covered 
if it had been notified. So I think its fair that DAS pays the legal fees for Mrs Ws chosen 
solicitors from the point the claim was accepted, at the rate it would have agreed under the 
policy.
Im also mindful of the trouble and upset Mrs W would have been caused in having to 
continuously chase DAS to get a solicitor appointed. If she hadnt done that, I dont think 
DAS would have instructed a solicitor promptly on the claim. It would also have been very 
frustrating to be told she had to exhaust her employers internal processes in circumstances 
where she had been dismissed and needed to take urgent legal action. So I think it should 
pay some compensation to reflect the additional distress caused at time that was already 
stressful for her. The figure I have in mind is £250. In coming to this figure, Ive taken into 
account the distress caused to Mrs W in feeling she wasnt being listened to, and the trouble 
she was put to in having to keep chasing DAS.
For these reasons, I said My provisional view was that DAS should pay Mrs Ws legal costs 
for her interim relief order, incurred from the date of the second panel firms legal 
assessment, at the rate set out in the policy terms; and pay compensation of £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to her.Replies
DAS has accepted the provisional decision and has noting further to add, but Mrs W has 
made some further comments. I will summarise the key points:
She contacted DAS on 17 January 2020 to advise of a pending claim
Her employment ended on 28 January and contacted them the same day, advising of 
the 7 day deadline
She wanted to use panel solicitors from 29 January 2020 and chased DAS every 
day, but was forced to instruct her own solicitors due to DAS failing to instruct 
solicitors promptly; the first solicitors couldnt act and the second firm took until 20 
February to start work. She had to borrow money to cover these costs.
She would like the crucial costs she had to paid from that date to prepare for the 
deadline of 4 February, at the actual rate she had to pay
Although some of the issues may have been with the solicitors, she had no 
relationship with them and only contracted with DAS for her insurance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mrs W contacted DAS on 17 January 2020, there wasnt any claim to be pursued 
at that point. But from 29 January there was a claim for DAS to deal with. As I explained in 
the provisional decision, DAS should have realised the urgency of the situation and acted 
more quickly to pursue matters. But even if it had acted more quickly, theres no guarantee 
that everything would have been in place before 4 February. Solicitors would have had to 
consider the claim and advise on prospects before cover could be confirmed. I dont know 
whether that would have been done in time for Mrs W to have cover in any event. In the 
meantime, its reasonable to expect someone to protect their position and take legal action 
themselves if needed.
Ive also taken into account that Mrs W should have contacted DAS in mid-February to seek 
cover for her own costs. And, on the strict wording of the policy, she wouldnt be covered for 
costs already incurred in those circumstances. If she had contacted DAS then, she would 
have been covered for costs at the rates set out in the policy.
Balancing all of these things, its still my view that the fair way to resolve the complaint is for 
DAS to pay Mrs Ws costs from the date of the second panel firms legal assessment, at the 
rate set out in the policy terms. This puts her closer to the position she would have been in if 
she had contacted DAS at that point. I appreciate this doesnt fully reimburse Mrs W but 
overall I think its a fair settlement 
Mrs W says she isnt looking for any compensation but just wants to be reimbursed for her 
costs. Ive explained what I think is the fair way to deal with those costs. But I still think it is 
appropriate to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused to her. So I see no 
reason to change my view that DAS should pay compensation of £250 in respect of this.
Putting things right
To put things right DAS should 
pay Mrs Ws legal costs for her interim relief order, incurred from the date of the
second panel firms legal assessment, at the rate set out in the policy terms;pay compensation of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and direct DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited to compensate Mrs W as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman