DRN-3505720
The complaint
Mr M complains about charges hes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS) since he returned a car to them at the end of a lease. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I know it will disappoint Mr M, I agree with the investigators opinion 
Ill explain why.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I understand Mr Ms frustration here as the first inspection revealed limited damage and the 
subsequent inspection identified much more.
Its for MBFS to decide their processes and its for them to decide how they identify any 
excess wear and tear that could be chargeable under the agreement. 
MBFS arent members of the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA), the 
organisation that provide the industry guidelines on what is considered fair wear and tear 
when a car is returned at the end of a lease. But I think it is reasonable to expect MBFS to 
be mindful of that industry guidance.
The BVRLA guidance explains that whilst some companies may provide a condition report 
on collection of the car, others may complete the final inspection off site.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for MBFS to complete a further and final inspection. 
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr M responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition so he would be responsible for any damage identified in those inspections if the 
car wasnt returned in the correct condition.
Whilst MBFS have their own vehicle return standards the industry guidelines for what is 
considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is 
provided by the BVRLA. So, I think that industry standard is the fairest gauge of whether 
charges have been levied reasonably and Ill use that when considering the damage in the 
inspection reports.
Ive considered the photographs of the damage in the second report and compared the 
damage to the BVRLA standard.
The BVRLA guidelines say that:
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per
panel and the paint surface is not broken.
surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer is not showingare acceptable
The vehicles number plate should be intact
Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable.
and There must be no damage to sidewalls or tread. And scuffs of up to 50mm on the total 
circumference of the wheel  are acceptable
Obvious evidence of poor repair, such as flaking paint, preparation marks, paint 
contamination, rippled finish or poorly matched paint, is not acceptable.
In each area that MBFS are claiming damage I think the photographs in the inspectors 
report show that damage to be in excess of the guidelines Ive summarised above. That 
damage is therefore chargeable.
Mr M says that if the first inspector had identified all of the damage he wouldnt have let him 
take the car away and would have had that damage repaired elsewhere. The contract 
explained that if the car wasnt returned in the correct condition Mr M would need to pay for 
refurbishment and I think he therefore had time to inspect the car and carry out repairs 
ahead of any inspection by MBFS. Whilst he could have asked for a further extension on his 
contract to arrange that work, he would also have had to pay for the extended hire and for a 
rearranged inspection. I dont think it would therefore have been likely to be cost effective for 
him to have done so even if he could arrange the repairs at a cheaper price. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman