DRN-3116433
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) caused a 
delay to the transfer of her Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) from another provider. 
She considers this caused her a financial loss. 
Mrs P also complains that HL delayed the transfer of her Individual Savings Account (ISA). 
This decision only considers the SIPP transfer. If Mrs P would like this service to consider 
her ISA complaint, she would need to bring that complaint to this service separately. 
Mrs P is represented in her complaint. But Ill only reference Mrs P in my decision.
What happened
Mrs P wanted to transfer her SIPP and ISA to HL from another provider (provider A). On 25 
February 2020 she sent a completed SIPP transfer application form to HL. HL received the 
form on 28 February 2020. 
HL said they processed the application and forwarded it to provider A on 2 March 2020. 
They asked provider A to send them discharge forms and details of Mrs Ps current scheme, 
including values. Provider A received this request on 4 March 2020. HL also wrote to Mrs P 
on 2 March 2020 to tell her what would happen next. They said that provider A would 
provide discharge forms which they would send to Mrs P to complete. 
Provider A issued the requested discharge forms to HL in a letter dated 16 March 2020. HL 
chased for the discharge forms on 17 March 2020. They received the discharge forms, and 
other information about the ceding scheme, on 19 March 2020. 
HL sent the discharge forms to Mrs P on 24 March 2020. They asked her to return the 
completed forms to them. They said they would forward the completed forms to provider A. 
HL said they chased Mrs P for the completed discharge forms on 8 and 23 April 2020. They 
said they received them on 28 April 2020. But on 30 April 2020, they wrote to Mrs P asking 
her to complete a SIPP transfer form. I understand they also sent the completed discharge 
forms back to Mrs P.  
Mrs P called HL on 14 May 2020 to tell them that the discharge forms had been returned to 
her in error. She told HL she wanted the transfer to complete as soon as possible. She 
returned the original completed forms to HL the same day. She also sent in a letter of 
complaint. Mrs P felt that HL had made errors with the processing of her SIPP and ISA 
transfer requests.
HL sent the completed forms to provider A on 26 May 2020. And chased provider A on the 
transfer on 10 June 2020. 
Provider A said that they called HL on 9 June 2020 to confirm that the transfer was a 
genuine request. They said they couldnt get through to the team they needed to speak to at 
that time. So they said they emailed the Pension Transfer team at HL on 11 June 2020. HL 
sent a chaser letter about the transfer to provider A on 15 June 2020. Provider A said they 
emailed HL again to confirm the transfer was genuine on 18 June 2020. HL provided the 
required confirmation on 19 June 2020. 
HL asked provider A for an update and a timeframe for the transfer on 26 June 2020. And 
sent a timeline of the SIPP transfer to date to Mrs P on the same day.
HL said they chased provider A again on 3 July 2020 for an update. They said they received 
an email confirming that the transfer was at the disinvestment stage. HL chased provider A 
again on 6 July 2020. Provider A confirmed that a transfer payment had been made to HL on 
8 July 2020. HL received the transfer for £107,609.05 the following day. This amount was 
credited to Mrs Ps HL account on 10 July 2020.
Provider A emailed HL on 13 July 2020 to confirm the transfer had completed. Mrs P 
invested the full value of the transfer into her chosen fund with HL on 14 July 2020.
HL issued their final response to the complaint on 21 July 2020. They apologised for the 
delays theyd caused. And upheld the complaint. They acknowledged that theyd returned 
the completed discharge forms in error. But felt that some of the delays to the transfer had 
been outside their control. They offered Mrs P £150 for the inconvenience theyd caused.
HL also said theyd forward Mrs Ps concerns to provider A.  
Mrs P was unhappy with HLs response, so brought her complaint to this service. She said 
shed first requested the transfer on 25 February 2020, but it had only completed on 9 July 
2020. She said that HL had told her it should take four to six weeks for the transfer to 
complete. She felt the delay to the transfer had caused her a financial loss. 
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. He calculated that 17 working days 
had passed between the original receipt of the completed discharge forms on 28 April 2020 
and when HL sent the forms to provider A on 26 May 2020. Allowing for bank holidays over 
this period, he noted that 17 working days had passed, which he felt was an unreasonable 
timeframe. He said 10 working days was generally accepted as a suitable service level. Our 
investigator didnt consider that HL should be held responsible for the delays which had 
occurred after the completed discharge forms had been sent to provider A. He felt that HL 
had acted in a timely fashion to progress the transfer after this point. And that further delays 
had been out of HLs control. 
Our investigator felt that HLs offer of £150 for inconvenience was reasonable. But that they 
should perform a loss calculation for the delay he felt they were responsible for  seven 
working days. 
Mrs P didnt agree with our investigator. She felt that HL were responsible for some of the 
delays after 26 May 2020. She felt that they shouldve confirmed to provider A that the 
transfer request was genuine sooner. And that had she not been chasing HL, their lack of 
proactivity wouldve caused further delays. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that HL are responsible 
for delays over the period from 28 April 2020 and 26 May 2020. I acknowledge that Mrs P considers that HL are responsible for more of the delay she experienced. Ill explain the 
reasons for my decision. 
HL accepts that they delayed the process between 30 April 2020 (the date they returned the 
completed discharge forms to Mrs P in error) and 26 May 2020 (when the forms were sent to 
provider A). But they consider that provider A is responsible for the majority of the delays 
after the discharge forms had been sent to them.
Our investigator considers that HL were responsible for delays between 28 April 2020  the 
date HL received the completed discharge forms from Mrs P  and 26 May 2020.
Mrs P considers that HL were responsible for a much greater delay to the process. She said 
she returned the completed discharge forms on 27 April 2020. But that the transfer didnt 
complete until 9 July 2020. She considers that it was unacceptable that this part of the 
process took just under 11 weeks. 
I first considered the start date for the period of delay HL have accepted. I agree with our 
investigator that this should be 28 April 2020, when the discharge form was first received, 
rather than 30 April 2020, when HL mistakenly returned the completed form to Mrs P. I say 
this because HL had what they needed to progress the transfer on 28 April 2020. So, even 
though their error was on 30 April 2020, Im satisfied that the period affected by their error 
starts on 28 April 2020. 
Similarly, I agree with our investigator that the 26 May 2020 should be considered the end 
date for the period of delay HL caused by returning the completed discharge forms in error. I 
say this because this was the date they sent the completed forms to provider A. 
Due to the three bank holidays over this period, there were only 17 working days in the 
period in question. I agree with our investigator that its generally accepted that ten working 
days is a reasonable service level expectation for financial transactions. And Ive seen no 
evidence of a shorter service standard being applicable here. Therefore, after allowing for 
the full ten days I wouldve considered reasonable for HL to have taken to send the 
discharge forms on to provider A, I consider that HL caused a delay of seven working days 
over this period.  
Did HL cause any delays before 28 April 2020?
Ive also considered whether HL were responsible for any delays to the transfer process 
before 28 April 2020. 
From what Ive seen, HL took reasonable steps to progress the transfer from 28 February 
2020 to 28 April 2020. I say this because Im satisfied that HL completed every action they 
were required to take to progress the transfer within reasonable timescales.  
I acknowledge that Mrs P considers HL couldve been more proactive. And that they only 
took certain actions when she chased them for an update. But Im not persuaded that HL 
should be held responsible for delays over this period. 
I dont agree that HL should be held responsible for not receiving discharge forms from 
provider A in a reasonable time frame. I can see that they did chase provider A for those 
forms when they hadnt been received. Once theyd received them, they forwarded them on 
to Mrs P in three working days. They then chased Mrs P for the completed forms on more 
than one occasion. Mrs P returned the forms over a month after HL had sent them to her. 
In summary, Im not persuaded that HL caused any delays to the transfer process before 28 April 2020. 
I also considered if HL had caused any delays after 26 May 2020. 
Did HL cause any delays after 26 May 2020?
Mrs P said that HL had told her it should take between four and six weeks for the transfer to 
complete. 
I agree that HL did state, in their 2 March 2020 correspondence with Mrs P:
Once we have your signed discharge forms, we'll ask your provider to start your transfer. It 
normally takes pension providers 4-6 weeks to complete a transfer, though it can take 
longer.
But I cant reasonably say that HL were in control of the timing of the transfer after theyd 
sent the completed forms to provider A. I say this because many of the remaining required 
actions for the transfer process to reach completion werent in HLs control. 
Im also satisfied that when HL stated that: it normally takes pension providers 4-6 weeks to 
complete a transfer they were giving Mrs P a broad idea of how long provider A might 
take to complete the process after theyd received the completed discharge forms. In the 
end, it took a period of five weeks - from 3 June 2020 when provider A said they received the 
required paperwork, to 8 July 2020 when the transfer payment was made to HL. This period 
extends to six weeks if we start the clock at the point when HL sent the completed discharge 
forms to provider A. I appreciate that Mrs P expected the whole process to complete more 
quickly than it did. But Ive seen no evidence that this part of the process took longer than HL 
outlined in their 2 March 2020 letter. 
From what Ive seen, HL did chase provider A on the transfer on 10 June 2020. But provider 
A had already contacted HL on 9 and 11 June 2020 to request confirmation that the transfer 
request was genuine. The first call to HL on 9 June 2020 was to the wrong team. But 
provider A followed up their 11 June 2020 email with a chaser on 15 June 2020. HL provided 
the required confirmation to provider A on 19 June 2020. Although I acknowledge that Mrs P 
feels that HL caused a delay here, Im not persuaded that they did. They responded to 
provider A in six working days, which I consider reasonable. 
From what Ive seen, HL took reasonable steps to progress the rest of the transfer after 26 
May 2020. I say this because they processed all remaining stages of the transfer well within 
the generally accepted service standard of ten working days. Therefore Im satisfied that HL 
didnt cause any further delays to the transfer process after 26 May 2020.
I then considered whether HLs offer of redress is fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances.
Is HLs offer of redress fair and reasonable under the circumstances?
HL have acknowledged that they made an error when they returned the completed 
discharge forms. As I noted earlier, I consider that this caused a delay of seven working 
days to the eventual completed transfer.
HL have offered Mrs P £150 compensation. Im satisfied that this is reasonable for the 
inconvenience HL caused Mrs P. But I consider that they should also perform a loss 
calculation to check whether the delay caused Mrs P a financial loss.I say this because if HL hadnt delayed the transfer, it wouldve completed sooner. And Mrs 
P wouldve bought units in her chosen investment at a different unit price. I acknowledge that 
Mrs P remained invested with provider A until the transfer took place. Therefore the loss 
calculation will also need to consider the investments Mrs P held with provider A before the 
transfer. HL have told this service that they would need to be provided with the details of 
those investments. And that provider A wont provide these details to them directly. Our 
investigator has informed Mrs P that HL need an itemised statement of what holdings were 
sold to facilitate the transfer, and the prices of those stocks seven working days before, so 
that the loss calculation can be carried out. 
I uphold this complaint. And require HL to take the following actions. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs P should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if HL hadnt delayed the transfer.
What must HL do?
To compensate Mrs P fairly, Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited must:
Obtain (through Mrs P) an itemized statement of what holdings with provider A were 
sold to facilitate the transfer, and the prices of those stocks seven working days 
before  the notional transfer date.
Use this information to calculate the value of the transfer if it had completed seven 
working days earlier  the notional transfer value.
Apply the notional transfer value to the Baillie Gifford American fund priced the 
working day after the notional transfer date to assess how many units wouldve been 
purchased if the transfer had completed seven working days earlier.
If more units wouldve been purchased had the transfer completed seven working 
days earlier, there is a loss, and compensation is payable equal to the value of the 
missing units.   
If there is no loss, no compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should pay the 
compensation into Mrs Ps pension plan, to increase its value by the amount required 
to purchase the correct number of missing units. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should add interest to the 
compensation if they dont pay it within 28 days of the receipt of the information 
required to carry out the loss calculation. This should be paid at 8% simple each 
year.
If Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited are unable to pay the 
compensation into Mrs P's pension plan, they should pay that amount direct to her. 
But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Ps actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
For example, if Mrs P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs P 
wouldve been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 
75% of the compensation.
Pay to Mrs P £150 for the inconvenience caused.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mrs P in a clear, simple format.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
I consider that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited caused a delay of 
seven working days. So I consider its reasonable that the transfer wouldve 
completed seven working days earlier.
The valuation used by provider A wouldve been set seven days earlier than it 
shouldve been but for the delays.
Mrs P invested the full value of her transfer into the Baillie Gifford American fund. 
She confirmed through her complaint form to this service that she wouldve invested 
in the same way if the transfer had completed earlier.
Mrs P invested the transferred funds within one working day of receipt of funds into 
her account.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I require Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited to take the actions detailed in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman