DRN-2901227
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC are reporting adverse information on his credit
file.  
What happened
Mr B held a current account with Barclays. In April 2017, Mr B took a loan from Barclays,
with the monthly repayments for the loan being taken from Mr Bs existing Barclays current
account.
In late 2017, Barclays applied fraud markers to Mr Bs accounts, effectively restricting Mr Bs
access to these accounts, including the current account that was used as a payment source
for the loan. This meant that Mr B was unable to pay the loan, and the loan fell into arrears,
and Barclays reported the loan as being in arrears to the credit reference agencies.
In early 2018, Barclays acknowledged that the fraud markers had been incorrectly applied to
Mr Bs accounts and they made a payment of compensation to Mr B because of this.
However, Barclays stated that they were unwilling to remove the adverse information that
they had recorded from Mr Bs credit file. Mr B wasnt happy about this, so he raised a
complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Bs complaint. After some initial confusion as to the specific accounts
Mr B was complaining about, Barclays confirmed that they felt that they were making
accurate reports to the credit reference agencies because the payments in question had
been missed. So, they didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with Barclayss response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They also felt that because Mr B hadnt
made the payments it wasnt reasonable to ask Barclays to remove the missed payment
markers from Mr Bs credit file.
However, our investigator did feel that the communication that Mr B had received from
Barclays when inquiring about his restricted accounts hadnt be clear and had potentially
contributed to Mr B not making some of the payments that had been subsequently reported
as being missed. So, they recommended that Mr Bs complaint be upheld on this basis, and
that Barclays should make a payment of £300 to Mr B to compensate him for the
inconvenience hes incurred.
Mr B remained dissatisfied, especially as he felt that hes made considerable efforts to make
the payments but had been prevented from doing do by Barclays. So, the matter was
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 May 2021 as follows:
It seems clear to me that following Barclays incorrectly applying fraud markers to Mr 
Bs accounts, Mr B made concerted efforts to contact Barclays to remedy the 
situation and to make payments on his accounts such that they wouldnt go into 
arrears.
Barclays have stated that they feel the late payment markers recorded on Mr Bs 
credit file regarding his loan account are justified here, because Mr Bs accounts had 
never actually been frozen such that he couldnt have made payments towards his 
loan.
But Barclays acknowledge that they sent correspondence to Mr B specifically 
advising him that his accounts had been frozen such that he had no access to them. 
And its clear that Mr B made repeated attempts to contact Barclays to make 
payments to his loan, none of which resulted in any member of Barclays staff either 
taking payment or advising Mr B that he could make payment.
So it doesnt feel fair to me that Barclays should have recorded adverse information 
on Mr Bs credit file regarding his loan account, and I say this because Im satisfied 
that Mr B made reasonable efforts to make the payments due on his loan but was 
prevented from doing so by Barclays incorrectly applying fraud markers against his 
accounts, by not taking payment from Mr B when he attempted to make it, and by 
incorrectly informing Mr B that he couldnt make payment at the time he was trying to 
do so.
It follows then that Ill be provisionally upholding this complaint in Mr Bs favour and
instructing Barclays to remove all adverse reporting regarding this loan account from 
the time that the fraud markers were incorrectly applied to Mr Bs accounts onwards. 
In addition, Ill also be instructing Barclays to make a payment of £300 to Mr B to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr B and Barclays the opportunity to provide 
any comments or additional information they wished me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. 
Mr B didnt comment, whereas Barclays confirmed that they had nothing further to add. As 
such, I see no reason not to issue my final decision as being a confirmation of my provisional 
decision as detailed above, and so my final decision will be such a confirmation.
Putting things right
Barclays must remove all adverse reporting regarding this loan account from Mr Bs credit 
file from the time that fraud markers were incorrectly applied to Mr Bs loan account 
onwards.
In addition, Barclays must make a payment of £300 to Mr B to compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman