DRN-4242237
The complaint
Mr A makes a number of complaints about Clydesdale Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr A makes a number of complaints about Clydesdale which can be summarised as follows. 
He says Clydesdale has refused to speak to him, blocked his telephone number and gave 
him incorrect advice about what he believed was a balance transfer. He also says 
Clydesdale took too long to respond to his complaint and says he has received a poor 
service from it. Mr A would like compensation as well as fees refunded and says a direct 
debit payment wasnt taken.
Clydesdale says it made a decision to communicate with Mr A in writing or e-mail due to the 
way in which he spoke to its staff. It says it didnt agree a balance transfer with Mr A but 
agreed a cash advance which attracted a fee in line with account terms and conditions. 
Clydesdale accepts it took too long to respond to Mr As complaint and has offered £50 
compensation.
Mr A brought his complaint to us, and our investigator explained which areas of his 
complaints we could deal with. The investigator didnt think there any evidence a balance 
transfer had been agreed and thought a cash advance fee was correctly charged. The 
investigator thought Clydesdale was entitled to make a decision not to speak to Mr A 
following a call between the parties. And that Mr A cancelled the direct debit.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and says there is a missing call in which the balance transfer 
not a cash advance was offered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have listened to the telephone call between the parties on 3 December 2021 and am 
satisfied Mr A instructed Clydesdale to cancel his direct debit going forward. Im also 
satisfied it was made clear by Clydesdale that was not just for the month of December and 
needed re-instating if needed. I find Clydesdale did what Mr A asked and that it didnt make 
a mistake about that part of the complaint. I cant fairly hold Clydesdale responsible for 
missed payments or charges made in those circumstances which would have been applied 
in line with agreed account terms and conditions.
I have also listened to the telephone call in November 2021 between the parties and am 
satisfied Clydesdale was entitled to conclude it no longer wished to speak to Mr A in person 
due to his conduct on that call. Im also satisfied Clydesdale fairly agreed that any future 
correspondence could be via e-mail or letter and that it was entitled to block Mr As calls. I 
dont think Clydesdale made a mistake or acted unfairly by making that decision and it has a 
duty to protect its staff in those circumstances.
The main part of Mr As complaint is about the balance transfer/cash advance issue. I can 
see that a cash advance is recorded on Mr As account statement dated September 2021 
with a fee of £7.80.
I have listened to the calls at the time and accept there appears to be a reference to another 
call during the 15 September 2021 call. But Im satisfied Mr A was told to call Clydesdale 
back before he wished to make the cash transfer and that notes would be added to his 
account. The key call is on 22 September 2021, and Im satisfied Mr A asked that £260 be 
transferred from his credit card account to his current account. Im also satisfied Mr A was 
clearly told that there was a 3% charge which he said he knew about. Mr A then transferred 
the money and I have made clear that he was then charged £7.80.
I cant see that Clydesdale has misled Mr A or given him incorrect information. I dont think it 
matters what may have been discussed before 22 September 2021 as Clydesdale made 
clear there was a charge to transfer cash. It follows that I cant fairly order it to refund the fee 
of £7.80 which I think was correctly charged. I dont think it clear what Mr A says he 
discussed before this key call as it was made clear it was cash advance with a charge which 
Mr A agreed with. I think it likely any balance transfer would also attract a fee in any event if 
available.
Clydesdale accepts it took too long to respond to Mr As complaint and has offered £50 
compensation. It is not clear if Mr A has been paid that amount and I make clear Im satisfied 
the offer is fair and reasonable. Mr A hasnt told us if he disagrees with the amount of that 
offer.
I appreciate Mr A raises other matters with Clydesdale which the investigator dealt with in his 
view. I dont think Mr A has disputed the investigators findings except for the cash 
advance/transfer issue. But I make clear I agree with the investigators view about those 
other points and am satisfied any charges were made in line with agreed account terms and 
conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main parts of this complaint and find Clydesdale 
Bank Plc has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer of £50 which it should now pay 
Mr A if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman