DRN-3245524
The complaint
Mr D is a partner in a partnership that trades as a business that Ill refer to as N. Mr D has 
complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFUM) 
didnt send him a copy of his commercial insurance policy booklet. 
What happened
Mr D held a commercial insurance policy with NFUM which included business interruption 
insurance. Mr D looked to claim on his policy after N was impacted by Covid-19 and the 
Governments response to the pandemic. NFUM turned down Mr Ds claim as it said there 
wasnt cover under the policy. 
Mr D complained to NFUM. He said he hadnt been sent a copy of the policy booklet, so the 
terms of the policy hadnt been highlighted. Mr D was also unhappy about how NFUM had 
responded to his complaint. 
NFUM said the policy was initially taken out in February 2017 by one of Ns previous 
partners, who Ill refer to as Mr S. NFUM said it had provided a copy of the policy booklet to 
Mr S along with all of the other documents. NFUM said it hadnt sent further copies of the 
policy booklet at each renewal as the terms of the policy hadnt changed. However, it had 
sent other renewal documents each year for Mr D to check the policy still met Ns needs. 
Unhappy with NFUMs response, Mr D brought his complaint to our service. He said Mr S 
had been removed as a partner in 2017 and he should have been provided with a copy of 
the policy booklet as well. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
NFUM had provided the policy booklet to N and didnt need to provide further copies as the 
policy hadnt changed. Our investigator found that while there had been a period where 
renewal documents had been sent to an incorrect address, more recent renewal documents 
had been sent to the correct address, so he didnt think that error had caused Mr D a 
financial loss. 
Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said he should have been 
offered a full review of the policy when Mr S was removed. He said hed never been sent a 
copy of the policy document so couldnt review the policy to determine if N was appropriately 
covered. Mr D said the policy document was sent to Mr Ss home address in 2017 and as 
the renewal documents had been sent to the wrong address for two years hed been unable 
to review cover during that time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr Ds business. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Our investigator has already explained that our service is unable to consider complaints 
about how NFUM handled Mr Ds complaint. As this doesnt appear to be in dispute I will 
focus my decision on Mr Ds complaint about NFUM not providing him with a copy of the 
policy booklet.
When providing information, NFUM have an obligation to do so in a way that is clear, fair 
and not misleading. Its not in dispute that when the policy was taken out in February 2017 
all communication was between NFUM and Mr S. Ive seen a copy of the new insurance 
documents, including the policy booklet, which were correctly addressed to N at an address 
that Ill refer to as H. I have noted that Mr D was listed as a partner of N on the policy at this 
time.
Mr D said these documents were sent by to Mr Ss home address. However, I can see from 
the Insurance Schedule that this was also given as the premises address for N. I havent 
seen anything to indicate that the documents were incorrectly addressed in 2017 and theres 
no indication that the documents were returned to NFUM as being undelivered. So, I think 
NFUM did what it needed to do in sending the policy. NFUM also emailed the documents to 
Mr S on 17 February 2017. I can see that Mr S replied to this email which indicates that that 
hed received them.  
As Mr S was acting on behalf of the partnership I think NFUM did what it needed to do in 
sending him a copy of the documents. I appreciate its frustrating for Mr D if he wasnt given 
sight of the policy by Mr S, but I cant hold NFUM responsible for that. As I think NFUM did 
what it needed to do in sending the policy booklet when selling the policy, Ive gone on to 
consider Mr Ds view that NFUM should have sent a further policy booklet when the partners 
or address were changed, or at renewal.  
In August 2017 Mr D got in touch with NFUM to update the insured premises to a different 
address (that Ill refer to as C) from the beginning of September 2017. NFUM wrote to Mr D 
at the correct address in August to confirm these changes. Mr D replied to thank NFUM for 
sending the revised documents, which indicates that he received them. In the same email he 
asked NFUM to remove Mr S from the policy as he was no longer a partner. 
Ive seen a copy of renewal documents sent in December 2017. The renewal document was 
incorrectly addressed so I can understand why Mr D might not have received them.  
However, on 23 March 2018 the document was again sent to Mr D and correctly addressed. 
The document says:
Please read your most recent Policy booklet with any Changes to your Insurance 
documents we've sent. We will send you a new Policy booklet if we make 
significant changes.
I think its clear from this that NFUM would only send an updated policy booked if it made 
any significant changes. While Ns address and the partners had changed Im satisfied the 
terms of the policy had stayed the same so NFUM werent obliged to issue a new policy 
booklet. In any event, Mr D had an opportunity to request a copy of the policy booklet at this 
time if he didnt have one. 
In February 2018, NFUM offered Mr D a review of his policy which was incorrectly 
addressed. So I can again understand why Mr D might not have received this. However, I 
can see that NFUMs offer of a review at the following renewal, in 2019, was correctly 
addressed. So I think NFUM offered Mr D a review of the policy. At the policy renewals in 2019 and 2020 renewal documents were sent to N at the correct 
address. Each renewal advised Mr D to check the documents to ensure they still met Ns 
needs. I havent seen anything to indicate that Mr D let NFUM know he wasnt aware of the 
terms of the policy.
Its unhelpful that some correspondence was sent to N at the incorrect address. However, I 
have to consider the impact of that error on Mr D. Im satisfied that NFUM sent the policy 
booklet to Mr S when the policy was taken out and I dont think NFUM is at fault if that wasnt 
shared with Mr D. Im also satisfied that Mr D was provided with correct information in 
August 2017 and from March 2018. So while Mr D might not have been able to review the 
cover before the policy renewed in February 2018 he had a number of opportunities to 
request a copy of the policy booklet after March 2018. Im therefore not persuaded that 
NFUMs error caused Mr D a financial loss. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr D was hoping for, given the impact of the pandemic on 
N. However, Im not going to require NFUM to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman