DRN-1246274
 
The complaint
 Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank Plc ("Lloyds") mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance ("PPI") policy. 
What happened
 Mr M took out a credit card with Lloyds in 1998. At the same time he bought a PPI policy 
which would have helped cover the repayments on the card for up to a year at a time if he 
couldn't work. 
Mr M says that the PPI was added without his knowledge or consent. He says he never 
bought PPI and wouldn't have done here if he'd had a choice about it.
The adjudicator didn't think Mr M's complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagrees, so his case 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and I've taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, I'm not upholding Mr M's 
complaint. I'll explain why I've reached this decision.
Mr M says he didn't agree to take the PPI. He says it was added without his knowledge or 
consent. Lloyds has provided a copy of Mr M's application form which he completed when 
he took out the card. It has a separate section for PPI which offers him a choice about taking 
it. There is a tick in the box to say he wanted it and Mr M has signed the form. And the 
PPI appeared on each of his credit card statements for many years, so if he hadn't agreed to 
take the PPI I think he would have noticed it and queried it.
So I think Mr M bought the PPI knowing he had a choice about it, even if he doesn't 
remember doing this so many years later.
It's not clear whether Lloyds gave Mr M a personal recommendation to buy the PPI. I've 
worked on the basis that it did as this holds Lloyds to a higher standard. It would have 
needed to take reasonable steps to make sure it was right for Mr M. Looking at Mr M's 
circumstances at the time I think that the PPI was suitable. I say this because:
Mr M was eligible for the policy and wasn't affected by any of the terms which might 
have made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, such as those related 
to existing medical conditions. Mr M was self-employed, but looking at the terms I 
don't think it was any more difficult for him to make a claim than for an employed 
person;As Mr M was self-employed he didn't have any sick pay. The policy would have paid 
out for up to 12 months at a time if he wasn't able to work, so it offered a useful 
benefit. Mr M told us that he had a private medical insurance policy. This wouldn't 
have covered his credit card repayments though - it would only have paid for medical 
treatment. Mr M also told us that he had a sickness policy. But he couldn't remember 
who it was with or what the terms and benefits were, and he didn't have any 
evidence of it, so I can't take this into account;
If Mr M's business failed he wouldn't have received any redundancy pay. The policy 
would have covered his repayments for up to 12 months at a time, so, again, I think it 
offered a useful benefit. 
The cost of the policy was comparable to other similar policies on the market around 
the same time. It was flexible as it could be cancelled at any time without a financial 
penalty. 
So I don't think Mr M lost out as a result of anything Lloyds might have done wrong. 
My final decision
 I am not upholding Mr M's complaint so it follows that Lloyds Bank PLC doesn't have to pay 
any compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman