DRN-3058885
The complaint
Mr S complains that Amtrust Europe Limited withdrew cover under its credit protection 
insurance policy, causing him to be chased for car hire charges. 
What happened
Mr S was involved in a collision in his car with another driver. Rather than claiming on his car 
insurance policy he was referred to an accident management company (AMC) as he said he 
wasnt at fault for the accident. 
The AMC provided Mr S with a hire car and a credit protection insurance policy. The credit 
protection insurance policy is designed to cover the hire car charges if the AMC is unable to 
reclaim them back from the third party responsible for the accident. 
During the course of the claim dash cam footage was provided which showed Mr S was at 
fault for the accident. Because of this Amtrust said Mr S had misled them about the details of 
the accident and therefore withdrew its the cover provided under the policy. 
Mr S didnt think this was fair and complained, he said the driver of the other car had been 
tailgating him and antagonising him, so he didnt think he was responsible for the accident. 
Amtrust reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr S didnt agree he brought his 
complaint here, he said the whole dash cam footage should be watched as it will show the 
other driver antagonising him. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. She found the 
dash cam footage showed it was reasonable for Mr S to be found at fault for the accident. 
Because of this she agreed that Amtrust hadnt been given accurate information about the 
accident and so it was fair for them to withdraw cover under the policy. Mr S didnt agree, he 
said the car hire debt had been passed to a debt collector and he was being pursued for it. 
He also said he didnt think he was at fault for the accident. 
As Mr S didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has also complained about the debt being passed to a debt recovery business. In this 
decision I can only consider the actions of Amtrust in relation to the credit protection 
insurance policy. And as the car hire charges are being pursued by the AMC, Im unable to 
consider whether the AMC was fair to pass the debt onto a debt recovery business in this 
decision. 
The terms and conditions of the policy say if Mr S makes any statement to Amtrust or the 
AMC which is found to be untrue, then its able to cancel the policy. Ive therefore looked to 
see if Amtrust has acted fairly and reasonably in doing so. 
When Mr S was referred to the AMC he was asked what happened and Mr S said hed 
indicated and changed lanes, he said hed been in the lane for about 20 seconds before he 
was hit in the rear by the third party. The third party has provided dash cam footage which 
shows them driving and coming to a stop in traffic behind another car. The other car then 
drives forward leaving a gap between the two cars. As the third party starts to drive forward 
Mr Ss car is then seen pulling in front of the third party, without indicating, and braking hard. 
The third party then collides with the back of Mr Ss car. 
From reviewing the details given by Mr S and the dash cam footage. Im satisfied the dash 
cam footage doesnt support what Mr S said happened and shows he intentionally gave 
misleading and incorrect information to Amtrust. Im therefore not going to interfere with 
Amtrusts decision to withdraw cover under the policy. 
Ive also considered Mr Ss comments about the third party drivers behaviour before the 
accident. While I understand the third party drivers behaviour wasnt acceptable, it doesnt 
change the fact that Mr Ss version of events given to Amtrust differ to those shown in the 
dash cam footage. Im therefore not persuaded Amtrust has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman