DRN-2646011
The complaint
Mr B complained that 1st Stop Personal Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B took out a loan with 1st Stop as follows:
LoanDate taken Date paid Principal 
loan 
amountTerm Monthly 
repayment
1 05/07/2017 Debt sold £2,000 36 months £80.36
Mr B brought his complaint to us when he wasnt able to resolve it with 1st Stop. 
In summary, Mr B said that 1st Stop lent to him when he already had a lot of debt and proper 
checking wouldve shown that this loan wasnt affordable for him. Mr B has since entered 
into a debt management plan.  
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened. 
Our adjudicator thought that the information 1st Stop gathered about Mr Bs financial 
situation, which included a credit report, shouldve prompted 1st Stop to do more to check 
his financial situation  and had it done so, it shouldve found out that it was unlikely Mr B 
would be able to sustainably repay the loan. Our adjudicator set out directions indicating 
what 1st Stop needed to do to put things right. 
1st Stop disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that:
Mr Bs credit file showed that he managed his credit commitments well
it wouldnt request a payslip as evidence as a report done by a credit reference 
agency confirmed the income Mr B had declared and it reviewed his credit file to 
ascertain his outgoings
it conducted the income and expenditure assessment based on information provided 
by Mr B at the time of the affordability assessment  his circumstances later arent 
relevant
his overdraft seems to have been managed
Mr B made the loan repayments on time for the first 6 months or so
at the time of lending, as evidenced through the income and expenditure 
assessment, credit file and payment history, the loan was affordable based on the 
information provided by Mr B.
1st Stop asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and so it comes to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website 
and Ive followed it here. Like our adjudicator, I dont think 1st Stop shouldve provided 
the loan. Ill explain why I say this.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information 1st Stop 
relied on when it decided to lend to Mr B. 
1st Stop asked Mr B about his income and expenses and relied on its credit checks which it 
told us confirmed the figure of £2,800 that Mr B had said he earned. It also worked out that 
Mr Bs regular monthly expenditure, including his spending on other credit it saw on the 
credit checks it carried out, left him with approximately £329 available to spend after making 
the repayment on this loan. So 1st Stop felt that the monthly repayments of £80.36 on this 
loan were affordable for Mr B.
Mr Bs outstanding debt included a defaulted account with a balance of £1,255 still owing 
and he had made no payments on this account for a long time. 1st Stop deemed this low risk 
due to the time passed after the default was applied in 2011. But I think it was nevertheless 
a worrying indicator to see on Mr Bs credit file when thinking about the overall picture.
I think that 1st Stop could see from its credit check that Mr B had a substantial amount of 
debt and its credit checks showed that a significant amount of his income went towards 
paying other creditors  it worked out he was paying total credit costs of £1,153.06 each 
month. Also it was apparent that Mr B made extensive use of other expensive credit  including credit cards. The information 1st Stop had gathered appeared to show that Mr B 
owed a combined credit card balance of around £7,988  so hed already used most of the 
£8,550 available to him on these cards and it looked like he routinely just made minimum 
repayments.  
So, although the loan mightve appeared affordable to 1st Stop, I think its fair to say all this 
information painted a picture that was inconsistent with what it might have expected to see 
for someone who had been in his current apparently very well paid job for almost 2 years 
and with the expenses Mr B had declared. 
I think 1st Stop should have been prompted to do more to check that it had a proper 
understanding of Mr Bs actual financial situation before providing this loan given that this 
credit history wasnt what it mightve reasonably expected to see for someone who appeared 
to have this amount of disposable income each month  especially since taking this loan 
would mean Mr B was potentially signing up to make the monthly repayments for the next 
three years.   
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown.
To help me better understand what Mr Bs financial situation was in the run up to him 
applying for this loan Mr B has provided an extract from his June 2017 bank statement  so 
Ive looked at this to see what 1st Stop was likely to have found out had it done more in-
depth checks. 
To be clear, Im not suggesting the lender should have necessarily asked to see Mr Bs bank 
statements. 1st Stop could decide for itself what it needed to do to meet its obligation as a 
lender to carry out checks that were reasonable and proportionate. But in the absence of 
other evidence, I think the information shown on his bank statement gives me a reasonable 
insight into Mr Bs finances at the time. 
And had 1st Stop done proportionate checking I think it would have seen enough to confirm 
the indications on his credit file that his finances were under stress. It wouldve seen that 
Mr Bs actual take home pay that month was £2,174  so, in reality, loan monthly 
repayments of £80.36 were not going to be sustainably affordable given that 1st Stop had 
worked out his normal monthly outgoings would be £2,390.06. 
He would have a shortfall of around £216 and be unable to cover all his expenses. 
And I think the fact that even when his pay went into his account this still left Mr B £570 or so 
overdrawn wouldnt have reassured 1st Stop as it wouldve seen that this meant he would be 
using borrowed money from the bank to pay his other creditors  including 1st Stop. 
So I think 1st Stop shouldve seen enough, had it done a proportionate check, to realise that 
the loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr B and so it shouldnt have provided 
it. 
I dont think the fact that Mr B repaid his loan without any apparent signs of financial difficulty 
for the first 6 months or so means that he was able to do so in a way that was sustainable. 
And I think thats borne out by the fact that Mr B approached a debt management charity for 
advice and assistance with his money problems.I take the point that Mr Bs payslips for the months of July and August 2017 arent directly 
relevant to a lending decision made before they were available. But they do demonstrate 
that his June 2017 pay wasnt an unusually low amount  Mr Bs pay seems to have been 
variable from month to month.
In July 2017 his take home pay was £2,256.01  more than £500 less than the figure 1st 
Stop was relying on. 
In August 2017 Mr Bs net pay was just £1,306  which left him a long way short of the 
amount needed to pay his creditors. 
This helps explain the payment problems Mr B ran into. And I think if 1st Stop had done 
proportionate checks, it would have likely found out that the income figure Mr B declared 
couldnt be relied on as a dependable indicator of affordability  and that the loan most likely 
wasnt going to be sustainably affordable for him.  
  
I havent seen enough to make me think that 1st Stop acted towards Mr B in any other way 
that wasnt fair and reasonable. So Im not awarding any additional redress or telling 1st 
Stop it needs to do more over and above the steps I've set out below. 
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Mr B shouldnt repay more than the principal 
loan amount he borrowed. 
1st Stop should buy back any outstanding debt sold if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. 
Otherwise, 1st Stop should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below and do the following:
remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr B as though they had been repayments of the 
principal loan amount. 
If there is still an outstanding balance, 1st Stop should try to agree an 
affordable repayment arrangement with Mr B - bearing in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions. 
Or, if this results in Mr B having made overpayments, then those 
overpayments should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on 
the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to 
the date the complaint is settled and paid to Mr B. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to 
the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1st Stop to deduct tax from this interest. 1st Stop should 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and direct 1st Stop Personal Loans Limited to take the steps set out 
above to put things right for Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman