DRN-2835244
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) because he was unable to 
cancel his instruction to sell shares. He also complains about the price received for those 
shares. 
What happened
Mr W held a stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA). On 16 March 2020 he 
decided to sell some of the shares he held within that ISA. He placed a market best order to 
sell the shares via IISLs platform. 
Mr W also looked to sell another holding but noted the market spread was very wide. This 
prompted him to try and cancel the previous order after realising there wouldnt be a good 
return. But there was no option to cancel on the platform. He has told us there was one 
previously available. Also, when he tried to call IISL he has explained he waited in a long 
queue and by the time he got through to someone the trade had already been executed. 
Additionally, Mr W is concerned the value of the holdings went up on the same day and he 
doesnt think they were sold at market best. Therefore, Mr W raised a complaint with IISL 
during his call with them on 16 March 2020. 
  
IISL responded to the complaint in April 2020. They said there was significant spread during 
the time of the execution and the market was very volatile with a lack of liquidity causing a 
large spread throughout the day. Also, that when the markets opened there was little 
certainty regarding the price. They didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint explaining they had 
obtained the best possible price at the time of the trade. However, they contacted the market 
maker who agreed on this occasion to amend the price to the touch price on the order book 
at the time.
Mr W remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. The investigator felt that the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld as she didnt think IISL had done anything wrong here. Mr W didnt 
accept the view and provided some comments. For example, he said IISL could have 
cancelled the order as it was still showing as pending. Also, he was concerned about 
whether IISLs terms of service were acceptable to the regulator and whether it was 
appropriate to offer such securities on retail platforms given the issues with liquidity and 
spread. He also didnt think it was acceptable for IISL to have no circuit breakers on trades 
of this size and spread. 
Therefore, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cancellation 
Mr W has explained that when he placed the market order on 16 March 2020 he expected to 
receive a price of around £15 to £16. However, both parties have accepted that when Mr W 
placed the market order to sell his shares there was no electronic quote available. IISL has 
explained that this was due to the market conditions and volatility at the time which meant 
there was no price available from the market. This meant they had to deal with it manually. 
 
IISL have provided evidence of the information they provided at the time the market order 
was placed. Theyve explained that because no price was available a link was provided to 
Mr W which took him to their webpage providing further information about market orders. I 
can see they explained that if they werent able to provide a firm quote then they could deal 
with the order manually. And that they would endeavour to deal at the best possible price. 
Also, they said that he could choose to amend the order including the type of order being 
placed. Having considered this, Im content IISL gave enough information about how they 
would deal with his market best order when he placed it. 
Mr W has also explained that there had previously been a button on the platform that 
allowed him to cancel an order. However, when he went to cancel it wasnt there. IISL have 
said that once an order has been accepted it cant be cancelled. 
 
Therefore, Ive reviewed IISLs Terms of Service. I can see IISL explained that, once 
accepted by them, an order could not be amended or cancelled. I appreciate Mr W has said 
this wouldnt have prevented them from cancelling his order whilst it was still pending. He 
also asked whether the Terms of Service are acceptable to the regulator. However, my role 
is to consider whether IISL treated Mr W fairly. As they explained he wouldnt be able to 
amend or cancel an order, Im not persuaded it was unfair that the option wasnt available. 
I note that Mr W called IISL at 8:48am (after initially placing the trade at 8:17am). He has 
provided a copy of his phone bill which shows the call lasted approximately thirty minutes. 
His order was executed at 8:50am and IISL say he spoke to a call handler at 8:57am. 
Having considered the evidence, Im not persuaded Mr W waited an unreasonable amount 
of time to speak to somebody about his trade. 
The call handler did try and speak to IISLs Trade Management Team about cancelling the 
trade. But by this time the order had been executed. IISL have also explained the team 
confirmed the trade wouldnt be cancelled where there had been no error on their part. This 
is consistent with what they explained in their Terms of Service.
 
Overall, Im not persuaded IISL have done anything wrong here. As they had accepted the 
order and were dealing with it manually, I wouldnt expect them to cancel it. Whilst I 
appreciate Mr W waited on hold to speak to an advisor, Im not persuaded this was for an 
unreasonable amount of time or was the reason he was unable to cancel. I know the call 
handler spoke to the trade team to see if the trade could be cancelled, but she was trying to 
be helpful and it doesnt mean IISL should have cancelled the trade. Ultimately, there was no 
price available and IISL provided reasonable information about the type of order when Mr W 
placed the trade. Therefore, Im not persuaded theyve done anything wrong here.  
Price obtained
 Mr W placed a market order expecting to receive the best price. I appreciate Mr W is 
concerned about the price at which the shares were sold. He has provided data from the day 
showing that the value of his shares increased. Ive thought carefully about what hes said 
here.
 
However, placing an order at best does not mean the best price quoted on that particular 
day will be obtained. Instead, it means the best price quoted at the time the broker went to 
the market  which should be within a reasonable time of the consumers order being 
placed. IISL do have certain obligations when executing trades at market best and this 
includes considering the price, speed and size of the trade. I can see IISL set this out in their 
Best Execution Disclosure. 
With this in mind, Ive reviewed the steps taken by IISL to get the best possible price at the 
time. I can see they re-sent the order a number of times and tried to get a price from the 
market. And it was only on the final occasion a price was possible and the order was dealt 
with. Theyve provided us with a copy of their log and order book. I appreciate Mr W has said 
the price improved at 9:18am and 10:34am. However, IISL have provided evidence that they 
sold the shares at the best possible price at the time. Therefore, Im content they dealt with 
the trade fairly and in line with their obligations. And based on the type of order, I wouldnt 
expect them to have waited to see if the price improved. This is because it is the best price 
at the time. 
I do appreciate Mr W felt they should have had circuit breakers on trades being executed 
where there was a wide market spread, particularly given the significant size of the trade. Mr 
W instructed IISLs platform on an execution only basis. This means they werent required to 
provide advice about the trades Mr W instructed them to execute. And I cant say IISL had 
an obligation to have such safeguards in place in these circumstances as they were 
instructed on an execution only basis and had provided relevant information about the type 
of trade Mr W wanted to place (as explained above). 
  
Additionally, in the final response IISL explained that they raised Mr Ws concerns with the 
market maker for review. They explained, as a one-off gesture and at the markets 
discretion, they had agreed to amend the price to £10.85. IISL have explained this was the 
touch price on the order book at the time. And I can see this confirmed in the order book. 
This was intended to reflect the improvement with the market. I think IISL were trying to help 
Mr W here and the steps they took to get him a better price does not mean they had 
previously done anything wrong. 
Overall, Im satisfied IISL dealt with Mr Ws instructions to trade reasonably and Im 
persuaded they endeavoured to obtain the best possible price at the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman