DRN-3017688
The complaint
 Mr C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLCs changes to its overdraft pricing structure 
caused him financial difficulty and that Lloyds continued charging him excessive amounts for 
his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
 Mr C complained to Lloyds after it changed its overdraft pricing structure. He said the extra 
costs were making his overdraft more difficult to repay, Mr C says this meant he was 
struggling with money and ended up in financial difficulties. Lloyds didnt uphold the 
complaint. And as Mr C was dissatisfied he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Lloyds ought 
to have realised that Mr C was experiencing financial difficulty when it made changes to the 
overdraft pricing structure in November 2017 and so shouldnt have added any more 
interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. Lloyds didnt respond so the case was 
passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Lloyds acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it made 
changes to Mr Cs overdraft facility in November 2017. At this stage it ought to have been 
clear that Mr C was in no position to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable 
period of time. 
By this point, Mr C was hardcore borrowing. In other, words he hadnt seen or maintained a 
credit balance for an extended period of time. And Lloydss own literature suggests that 
overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure, 
so Mr C was clearly not using his overdraft in the way it was intended to be used. Lloyds 
also ought to have realised that Mr Cs use of his overdraft was unsustainable. Mr Cs 
statements show significant gambling. In these circumstances, Lloyds ought to have realised 
that Mr C was at a significant risk of being unable to repay what he already owed. So Lloyds 
should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and treated Mr C with 
forbearance rather than charge even more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft.
Mr C ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Lloyds didnt 
treat Mr C fairly and that he lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. And this means that 
it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Mr C
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Cs complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Cs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after the changes to the overdraft facility in November 2017 are 
removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mr C to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Cs credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in November 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr C along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file. 
I understand the debt has since been sold on, so Lloyds should liaise with the debt 
purchaser to ensure the above is carried out.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman