DRN-3700658
The complaint
Mr C, Mrs M and Ms M complain that BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) removed part of their 
insurance cover without telling them, and that when they complained it didnt handle the 
complaint as it should have.
What happened
Mr C has been the main correspondent on this complaint so Ill refer to him from now for 
ease of reading.
Mr C has private medical insurance with BUPA. It included travel insurance, which BUPA 
says was a complementary service that it didnt charge for. 
In 2021 BUPA decided it would no longer provide travel insurance. It says it told Mr C about 
this in a letter. It used a third party to manage the dispatch of the letter to affected members.
Mr C says he didnt receive such a letter, and only discovered he no longer had travel 
insurance when he was checking his policy documents. He complained to BUPA about not 
receiving notification, and doesnt think using a third party to send such letters is acceptable. 
He also says there was a real possibility that he and the other people covered by the policy 
could have taken a holiday believing they had cover when they didnt.
Mr C also complained about the way the call he made to BUPA was handled. BUPA 
acknowledged that it could have dealt with the call better and sent Mr C £50 to make up for 
that. And it said that, if Mr C decided he no longer wanted the policy without travel insurance, 
then it would refund his premiums back to the date of renewal and cancel the policy 
altogether.
Mr C doesnt think this is the right way to put things right, so he asked us to review his 
complaint. 
Our investigator asked BUPA to show some evidence that the letter had been sent out, but it 
cant do that. So instead he considered what BUPA did to put things right for Mr C. He 
concluded that offering to cancel the policy and refund premiums was the right thing to do. 
He also thought the £50 BUPA paid was sufficient compensation for the poorly handled 
phone call.
Mr C doesnt think this is fair so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator gave. 
Ill expand on how Ive reached this decision.
There are two main complaints here, so Ill comment on them separately.
Policy changes
As our investigator explained, BUPA can make commercial decisions about what sorts of 
insurance it offers  and I understand Mr C accepts that. However, its important that BUPA 
gives policy holders enough notice that they can make alternate arrangements for insurance 
if they so wish.
BUPA chose to use a third party to send notifications that travel insurance wouldnt be 
included in Mr Cs insurance. And its unable to show us any evidence that the letter was 
sent. Whilst its BUPAs choice of who it uses to send out such letters to customers, it 
remains BUPAs responsibility to ensure that these letters are sent.
That means that, if the letter wasnt sent (and Mr C says he didnt get it) then, without 
evidence to the contrary, Id expect BUPA to acknowledge it had made a mistake and put 
things right.
If Mr C had received the letter in good time hed have been able to choose whether he 
wanted to cancel the whole policy, and shop around for cover that did include travel 
insurance. Or he could have decided to keep the policy he had and buy a separate travel 
policy from another provider if he wanted this cover. When Mr C complained BUPA offered 
to refund Mr Cs premiums from the date of renewal of the policy if he wanted to do the first 
of these. And it gave him three months to do that. That was the right thing to do, as it gave 
Mr C time to shop around for a new policy without losing the money hed already paid out. 
If Mr C decides to keep the existing policy then I dont think BUPA needs to do more than it 
has. BUPA says the travel cover wasnt a paid for service and I have no reason to doubt 
that. BUPAs decision to cancel this cover didnt impact Mr C financially, so he hasnt lost 
money because of this.
Mr C says theres a real possibility that he and others covered under the policy might have 
travelled without knowing they werent insured. But he didnt travel, so the lack of cover 
hasnt affected him with regard to a claim. Im afraid I can only reach conclusions about 
things that have actually happened, so Im unable to comment on this further.
The complaint handling
BUPA has agreed it could have handled Mr Cs call better than it did. Its sent him £50 to 
make up for that and said it will take this up with the member of staff. I think thats a fair way 
to compensate Mr C for the unsatisfactory call.
Taking everything into account, I think BUPA has done what it needed to, to put things right 
for Mr C. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C, Mrs M and 
Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman