DRN-3777669
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr K complain about Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) increasing the 
premiums on renewal of their lifetime pet insurance policy following a claim.
References to Great Lakes include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Mrs K and Mr K took out a lifetime pet insurance policy for their dog through Great Lakes in 
July 2021, with an annual premium of £381.06. They said they were told over the phone by 
Great Lakes that while the premium would be recalculated each year at renewal based on 
several factors (including the age of the dog, advances in medicine, specific breed issues 
and other factors) their claims history wouldnt be considered. They also said they were told 
they could make multiple claims in any one year, but with only one excess being applied 
(rather than to each individual claim). This was a key factor in their decision to take out the 
policy (having previously had a policy with another insurer).
During the year, Mrs K and Mr K made one claim for a diagnostic test (£78.65 after 
deduction of the policy excess). However, when their policy came up for renewal in July 
2022, the annual premium increased to £508.94 (an increase of 33.6%). They challenged 
Great Lakes about the increase and were told that the claims history was now being 
considered when recalculating premiums (which was also contained in the renewal 
documents). They were also unhappy at not being told exactly how the renewal premium 
had been calculated. Unhappy at the significant increase in premium  given theyd been 
told their claims history wouldnt be a factor in future premiums  they complained to Great 
Lakes.
Great Lakes didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said premiums reflected 
regular reviews of data that affected the risk associated with insuring a pet, including the 
pets age, breed or general pet-related illnesses, vet fees in the area. They also said that any 
claims made during the year may also affect the premium (depending on how many claims 
and the cost of those claims). They said the renewal notice made Mrs K and Mr K aware that 
the claims history could affect the renewal premium. Great Lakes also said Mrs K and Mr K 
could shop around if they were unhappy with the premium increase or consider changing the 
level of excess of the level of cover.
Mrs K and Mr K then complained to this service. The main part of their complaint was they 
were unhappy at the significant increase in premium at renewal, having only made one small 
claim during the year and being told the claims history wouldnt be considered when 
premiums were recalculated. They thought they were likely to be penalised financially for the 
remaining life expectancy of their dog. They wanted future policy renewals to include a 
discount equal to the value of any premium increase resulting from their claims history. They 
also wanted a refund of the additional premiums theyd paid (at renewal).
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Mrs K and Mr K hadnt been told their 
premium was likely to increase significantly. While they were told over the phone in July 2021  
the claims history wasnt a rating factor in setting premiums, the investigator thought this 
wasnt mis-advice as Great Lakes didnt begin considering previous claims as a rating factor 
until July 2022. The investigator also thought it was for Great Lakes to determine how they 
set premiums for their policies. Mrs K and Mr K were told the increased premium level before 
renewal of the policy in July 2022 and  previous claims were a factor. If Mrs K and Mr K were 
unhappy at the increased level of premium, they could have chosen not to renew the policy. 
The underwriting data provided by Great Lakes showed the premium had been calculated in 
line with their method of calculating premiums, so the premium was correct. The premium 
increased by 33.6% and Great Lakes said this was mainly due to the age of the dog. The 
investigator thought Great Lakes should have made Mrs K and Mr K aware of this when they 
took out the policy. But as Mrs K and Mr K had opted for a more comprehensive policy and 
hadnt cancelled the policy, the investigator didnt think they wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had they been aware of the potential premium increase. But the investigator thought 
Great Lakes should pay Mrs K and Mr K £100 compensation for not informing them their 
premium would increase significantly.
Mrs K and Mr K disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman 
review the complaint.  In disagreeing, they were concerned at the potential future increases 
in premiums, and that because pre-existing conditions were usually excluded from pet 
insurance policies, then switching to another insurer would not be a risk-free option.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Great Lakes has acted fairly towards Mrs K and Mr K. 
The main issue in Mrs K and Mr Ks complaint is the significant increase in premium at 
renewal, having only made one small claim during the year and being told the claims history 
wouldnt be considered when premiums were recalculated. Great Lakes say premiums 
reflect regular reviews of data affecting the risk associated with insuring a pet, including 
several factors. They also say the renewal notice made Mrs K and Mr K aware that the 
claims history could affect the renewal premium. They also say the renewal premium was 
calculated in accordance with their pricing approach. Ill consider each element in turn, 
together with the views, evidence and information put forward by Mrs K and Mr K and by 
Great Lakes. 
Ive first considered the point about Mrs K and Mr K being told (when they took out their 
policy) the claims history wouldnt be considered  but it was subsequently at the time of the 
renewal of the policy. In their final response, Great Lakes refer to their renewal invitation 
included information making Mrs K and Mr K aware of the claims history could affect the 
renewal premium. The wording (under a heading of Why do prices change? is as follows:
when we work out your price we look at lots of factors. Things like your pets age, 
more sophisticated vet treatments becoming available, and your claims history can 
significantly affect your renewal premium.
Ive also noted what Great Lakes said (in their reply to Mrs K and Mr K when they challenged 
the final response) about their change of approach to setting premiums (to include the claims 
history of policyholders) with effect from July 2022. This indicates at the time Mrs K and Mr K 
took out their policy (July 2021) Great Lakes approach to setting premiums was they didnt 
take account of individual claims history. But they subsequently changed their policy to do so 
 they say because of customer feedback (from those who didnt tend to make claims) about 
having to pay for other peoples claims. Together with other factors, this led to Great Lakes 
changing their approach to setting renewal premiums.Having considered this, its a commercial decision by Great Lakes about how they set 
renewal premiums and what factors they take account of (and the weighting/loading of those 
factors). As such, it isnt something I can conclude is unreasonable. Insurers are entitled to 
decide how much to charge for the cover they provide. Its up to them how much they 
increase their premiums by and its common for increases to vary from year to year. I cant  
tell a business what it should charge. And taking account of claims history was contained in 
the renewal documentation as set out above. But it didnt explicitly say it was a change to the 
previous approach.
Ive then considered the calculation of the renewal premium, given the significant (33.6%) 
increase compared to the premium when the policy was taken out. 
Great Lakes have supplied the detailed rating factors applied to the calculation of Mrs K and 
Mr Ks renewal premium. While this is commercially sensitive, it indicates the main factors 
underpinning the increase in premium were the age of the dog and location (postcode). It 
also indicates (and Great Lakes have confirmed) that while the individual claims history for 
Mrs K and Mr K was considered as part of the premium calculation, the claims history was 
only for the year after the policy was taken out (not the claims history before the policy was 
taken out). And the low value of the one claim made during the year had a minimal impact (if 
any) on the calculation of the renewal premium. 
Taking this into account, Ive concluded Great Lakes have calculated the renewal premium 
in accordance with their approach to setting renewal premiums. So, Ive concluded they 
havent acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs K and Mr K.
While Ive reached this conclusion, Ive also considered the points raised by Mrs K and Mr K 
when responding to our investigators view. On the point about potential future premium 
increases, this isnt something I can consider as part of this complaint, which is about the 
increase in renewal premium compared to the premium when the policy was taken out. It 
would be for Great Lakes to issue renewal documents for the policy in future years (Mrs K 
and Mr K having renewed the policy in July 2022) including the level of any premium. As with 
most pet insurance policies, premiums tend to increase as the per insured gets older (and 
this is likely to increase the risk of illness and consequently, the number and value of 
claims). Each policy renewal is an invitation and its for the policyholder (Mrs K and Mr K) to 
decide whether they are content to renew the policy, based on the terms and premium.
I also appreciate the point about pre-existing conditions usually being excluded from cover 
where a policyholder switches to another insurer. But this is common with pet insurance 
policies, and its for Mrs K and Mr K to consider this factor when deciding whether to renew 
their policy or look for cover elsewhere.
Coming back to the main issue of the complaint, while I think Great lakes havent acted 
unreasonably in calculating the renewal premium and taking account of claims history was 
contained in the renewal documentation, I have considered the point that it didnt explicitly 
say there could be a change to the previous approach 
The policy terms do allow Great Lakes to change the premium at renewal. In some 
circumstances it might not be fair for a business to make changes to a policy like this if they 
fundamentally change the nature of the cover on offer. I dont think thats the same as what 
happened here. Great Lakes has changed the way it calculates the policy premium and that 
does differ from the position when Mrs K and Mr K took the policy out. However, claims were 
always taken into account when calculating premiums. The difference is that previously they 
were pooled across customers with similar characteristics whereas now customers who 
have more claims are charged more if claims in the last 12 months indicate an increased risk 
of future claims. I dont think that represents a fundamental change to the lifetime cover offered. So while I appreciate that the renewal quote it offered was a significant increase on I 
dont think Great Lakes has done anything wrong here. 
But as the seller of the policy Great Lakes also had a responsibility to provide clear, fair and 
not misleading information when the policy was taken out and ensure its customers had  
appropriate information about a policy in good time and in a comprehensible form so that 
the customer can make an informed decision about the arrangements proposed.
I dont think Great Lakes did provide Mrs K and Mr K with the information they needed. They 
were not told Great Lakes would look at any claims they made. While that reflected the 
pricing position at the time, Great Lakes didnt provide any caveat to that or give any 
indication it might change in future. As Mrs K and Mr K were taking out lifetime cover I think 
they should have been this so they could make an informed choice as to whether this was 
the right policy for them. 
Ive gone on to think about how that affected their decision and whether they would have  
acted differently if theyd been given better information.
Mrs K and Mr K wanted to have the extra security of lifetime cover for their pet and they 
thought this policy was suitable. If they had looked for a similar policy elsewhere, its likely 
any such policy would have taken claims into account when calculating premiums. And the 
premiums would likely have gone up in future. I dont think they would have looked for a 
different policy and even if they had, they would likely have ended up in the same position.
I think this caused them some confusion and Great Lakes could have communicated better. 
The price increase will have come as a shock when they had been told individual claims 
wouldnt impact the premium. They might reasonably have thought there would be some 
increase given the dogs increasing age, but the size of the increase would have been 
unexpected and would have caused some distress. In recognition of the impact this had on 
Mrs K and Mr K, I think Great Lakes should pay £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs K and Mr Ks complaint 
in part. I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to:
Pay Mrs K and Mr K £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Great Lakes Insurance SE must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell them Mrs K and Mr K accept my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman