DRN-4220437
The complaint
Ms O complains that West Bay Insurance plc mishandled her claim on a motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a small car, first registered in 2013. It 
had a diesel engine and four-wheel drive.
Ms O acquired the car in 2017.
Ms O had the car insured on a comprehensive policy for the year from May 2022. Any claim 
was subject to an excess of £400.00.
The policy was in the name of an insurance intermediary. West Bay was the insurance 
company that was responsible for dealing with any claim. 
Much of the complaint is about acts or omissions of the intermediary in handling the claim on 
behalf of West Bay. Insofar as I hold West Bay responsible for such acts or omissions, I will 
refer to West Bay as including the intermediary.
Unfortunately, in early February 2023, a third party damaged Ms Os car in an accident.
Ms O made a claim on the policy.
West Bay said that the pre-accident value of the car had been £5,766.00.
Ms O complained that the insurer was under-valuing the car.
By a final response dated early March 2023, West Bay turned down that complaint.
Ms O called West Bay. She made a further complaint about the handling of that call and 
about her car being at a salvage company.
By a final response dated late April 2023, West Bay turned down that complaint.
In the meantime in late March 2023, West Bay sent Ms O a settlement payment.
Ms O made a further complaint as follows:
She wasnt given the option to retain the vehicle. 
A courtesy car wasnt supplied. 
She didnt receive any notification that the claim settlement payment was being 
issued.
No updates on the liability outcome were provided.
By a final response dated mid-May 2023, West Bay turned down that complaint.
Ms O asked us to investigate.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the 
settlement offer was fair.
Ms O disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
She has a diagnosis of severe Complex PTSD. She was starting to recover.
Her car was in absolutely pristine condition. It had leather seats and optional extras. 
Her car had a low mileage of about 60,000.
She banged her head in the crash and suffered concussion.
The phone call in which she said they could write off the car was within half an hour 
of the car crash itself. She should not be held to the words she said then. She 
wanted to get home.
She told her insurer she was a vulnerable person.
She lost her front dashcam in the crash. 
She did not receive the text on about 4 February about not getting a courtesy car. 
On 22 March 2023, her insurer told her that it was writing off her car because the 
damage is structural.
She couldve got an independent repairer to quote a price. The repairs needed were 
well within the budget of the settlement offer.
She declined the offer. Her insurer issued the settlement cheque with no 
communication at all.
There is no car like hers for £5,776.00.
She went to view a similar car for £6,325.00. It was in poor condition.
She is not in employment any more because of ill health.
She has had to be taking taxis everywhere when she does go out.
Her insurers treatment of her made her mental health worse. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scope of the complaint
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. One of those rules means that  before we can investigate a complaint  
the policyholder must first have raised it with the firm and waited for up to eight weeks for a 
final response.
Also, we operate a two-stage process under which the investigator gives an opinion on a 
complaint and the ombudsman gives a final decision.As far as I can see from the file, Ms O didnt make a claim in respect of the dashcam, or a 
complaint about that. So  in line with the rules  the investigator didnt give an opinion and I   
cant give a final decision in relation to the dashcam.
Write-off and Salvage
It was for West Bay to decide whether it would repair the car or treat it as a total loss and 
pay its pre-accident valuation. During the call when Ms O made her claim, West Bay said it 
would likely be a total loss.
West Bay gave Ms O the option to keep her damaged car, but she agreed to it being treated 
as a total loss..
If Ms O had wanted to keep the damaged vehicle, then West Bay wouldve proposed a 
deduction of a salvage value from the amount it paid her. 
By the time West Bay had sent its cheque in late March 2023, the damaged vehicle had 
become the property of West Bay to sell to the salvage company.
I dont conclude that West Bay treated Ms O unfairly by treating the car as a total loss and 
selling it to a salvage company. 
Courtesy Car
Like many motor policies, West Bays didnt provide a courtesy car in the event of a total loss 
of the insured vehicle. So I dont consider that West Bay didnt anything wrong by not 
providing a courtesy car.
Im satisfied that West Bay followed its standard procedure by sending at an early stage a 
message to Ms O that it wouldnt provide a courtesy car. I accept that  for some reason  
Ms O didnt receive that message.
Liability of the third party
Im satisfied that West Bay updated Ms O on about 30 March 2023 in a telephone call and 
by letter. Whilst there may have been difficulties in the post, I dont hold West Bay 
responsible for such difficulties.
Valuation
The Financial Ombudsman Service sees a number of complaints about the valuation of used 
vehicles. We will look at any relevant evidence, including advertisements for similar vehicles.
We generally regard the retail figures in certain trade guides as persuasive. Thats because 
theyre based on extensive nationwide research into the likely selling price of a particular 
vehicle. Generally, the trade guides reflect the various aspects of supply and demand for a 
particular vehicle month by month.
Compared to the trade guides, we often find advertisements less persuasive. Thats because 
they contain the sellers asking prices, which may include scope for negotiation downwards.
Like most policies, Miss Os policy covered the car up to its market value, defined as 
follows:The cost of replacing the car with another of the same make, specification, model, 
age, mileage and condition as the car immediately before the loss or damage 
happened
Ive noted the make, model, specification, age, mileage and condition of Ms Os car before 
the incident.
Ive seen a letter from the commercial organisation that sold the car to Ms O in 2017. 
However, the letter doesnt give an opinion as to valuation before the accident in 2023.
Ive also noted some advertisements for similar (but not quite identical) cars, and Ive noted 
the asking prices.
Ive also seen an Auto Trader valuation for Ms Os vehicle at £8,270.00. But thats not in line 
with the Auto Trader valuation our investigator obtained.
For Ms Os car, Ive seen retail figures in the trade guides as follows:
Glass £5,420.00
Percayso £5,614.00
CAP £5,775.00
Auto Trader £6,612.00
The Auto Trader figure is about £800.00 higher than the next highest figure. So in the 
context of a car of this kind of value, the Auto Trader figure is so out of line that I disregard it 
as an outlier.
In any event, West Bays valuation of £5,766.00 was in the middle of the range of the four 
figures. So I dont consider that it treated Ms O unfairly. I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct West Bay to increase its valuation.
Payment
I find that West Bay sent Ms O a letter dated late March 2023, saying that it was making 
payment. Whilst there may have been difficulties in the post, I dont hold West Bay 
responsible for such difficulties.
The impact on Ms O
In my view, the accident and the need to make a claim were bound to cause Ms O distress 
and inconvenience. I dont doubt that her health issues magnified the effect on Ms O. Im 
pleased to note that Ms O has access to a mental health team.
However, I havent upheld Ms Os complaints about West Bays handling of the claim. So I 
cant find it fair and reasonable to direct West Bay to increase its valuation or to pay 
compensation to Ms O. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct West Bay Insurance plc to do any more in response to this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman