DRN-2058771
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc wrongly advised them to invest a total of 
£50,000 in 2001 given Mr Ss changing circumstances and mental health. They surrendered 
the investments in 2008.
 
What happened
Their representative said Mr S  who had previously taken responsibility for their financial 
decisions - had retired on medical grounds and was now dependent on Mrs S to deal with 
this and other crucial matters. She had no investment knowledge.
Further, they were both retired and had no ongoing earned income and so should not have 
been advised to take such a risk with this part of their money.
An investigator at this service did not feel there was sufficient evidence to uphold the 
complaint.
He noted that the advisor did not detail much about Mr Ss personal situation so it wasnt 
possible to be sure how much he had understood about what Mr S had been going through. 
But he noted that Mr and Mrs S had had two meetings with the advisor, who recorded that 
Mr S was happy to invest for a five year plus period to achieve capital growth. Also, that he 
had received an advice report and the relevant documentation.
Crucially, the advisor had recorded Mr and Mrs Ss overall financial situation including a 
range of existing investments totalling £92,500. They had no debts and £128,000 on deposit, 
mostly as a result of a recent retirement/pay-out. Given this, he didnt think it was 
unreasonable to recommend investing a further £50,000. He also felt the recommended mix 
of investments  including units trust and an investment bond  offered a suitably diverse 
spread of products/assets and funds. Finally, he noted that Mr and Mrs S chose to add a 
further £12,000 in these investments, without advice, in the following years.
Finally, he noted that Mr and Mrs S sought further financial advice in 2006 and 2009, 
continuing to affirm that they were happy to take some risk with their money in search of 
medium-term growth.
Mr and Mrs S representative did not agree, and said:
Mr Ss other investments were all taken out before his mental breakdown and 
retirement when their joint finances were healthy and they had significant ongoing 
income and could afford to take a reasonable risk with their surplus money
So the previous investments, and their risk level, are not relevant to the advice given 
when their situation was very different
By 2001 Mr S struggled with the most simply daily tasks and was entirely reliant on 
his wife for practical and financial decisions
Mrs S made the advisor fully aware of her husbands new situation
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. As such, I will not repeat 
all the points he made in his View of the case.
I do, however, think it is important to clarify that my role  and that of this service  is to 
assess whether there is sufficient, persuasive evidence to fairly conclude that a business did 
something wrong; in this case that the investment advice was inappropriate. And not merely 
to conclude that an advisor might have made different recommendations.
Firstly, there is not enough evidence to know how far the advisor was aware of Mr S new 
circumstances nor whether Mr S or Mrs S fully understood what risk they were being 
recommended to take with this portion of their available savings. So I simply cannot say 
whether they actively agreed to these recommendations.
Further, it is clear that Mr Ss circumstances were very different by 2001 and therefore his 
previous investment history is only of very limited relevance when assessing what would 
have constituted reasonable advice at this point. But the fact that Mr and Mrs S had made 
investments of more than £90,000 and continued to retain these and that they had £126,000 
on deposit is very relevant to whether this was, in principle, reasonable advice. 
Crucially, while Mr S was now retired on medical grounds, he and Mrs S continued to have a 
substantial annual income set against their modest outgoings. They were, in my view, in a 
position to invest £50,000 of their £126,000 in savings - should they have wanted to  
without endangering their overall financial security. The fact that they retained these 
investments over the medium term demonstrates that affordability did not prove an issue.
I also dont think the recommended investments were unsuitably risky given Mr and Mrs S 
overall financial position. So I cannot fairly conclude that the advisors recommendations 
were clearly inappropriate.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman