DRN-2893478
The complaint
Miss O says that Aviva Insurance Limited charged her too much when she changed the car 
covered by her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss Os policy renewed in May 2020 for around £800 annually. In November 2020 when 
she changed her car, Aviva charged Miss O around £400 more annually. One of our 
investigators thought it was fair for Aviva to charge more for the change in vehicle, but she 
thought it shouldnt have re-priced the policy based on other factors. Aviva clarified its 
approach, and the investigator reconsidered the detailed pricing information it had provided. 
She then said that as the rise in premium was based only on factors relating to the new car, 
Aviva had done nothing wrong. Miss O asked for an ombudsmans  review of her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers are entitled to set their prices as they see fit, and we cant interfere with their pricing 
structures. But any increases must be applied to consumers fairly. We wouldnt expect a 
policy to be wholly re-priced due to a change made by a consumer mid-term, but I dont think 
thats what happened here. I think Aviva has shown that the rating factors that led to the rise 
in the premium were all related to the new car. Unfortunately, as the details it gave us are 
commercially sensitive, they cant be shared with Miss O. But Im satisfied that Aviva acted 
reasonably in increasing the premium, and that any other consumer in Miss Os position 
would have faced a similar increase. I can see why Miss O thought the extra charge was 
excessive, but it reflected Avivas view of the fundamental change in risk it thought it was 
taking on. As I dont think Aviva did anything wrong, I cant uphold Miss Os complaint. 
   
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman Services 
rules, I must ask Miss O to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman
