DRN-2894315
The complaint
Mr K complains that Family Equity Plan Limited (FEP) delayed transferring a Child Trust 
Fund (CTF) to a Junior Individual Savings Account (JISA) with another provider (W). 
What happened
Mr K sent the transfer request to W on 10 July 2020. W processed it through their custodian 
(WF) and submitted it to FEP initially on 23 July 2020. They sent the request again on 6 
August 2020 and 13 August 2020. W received the funds by cheque on 8 September 2020. 
Mr K became concerned and complained to FEP on 6 September 2020. He said the transfer 
was taking too long. He followed this up on 13 September 2020 and said the transfer had 
taken 62 days when he understood it should only take 30. He felt it had taken too long to sell 
the investments and send the funds by cheque which caused a financial loss. He wanted to 
know FEPs criteria for selling the investments because the unit price had previously been 
higher. Also, he said they had kept the cash for 27 days without paying interest. 
FEP responded on 24 September 2020 and explained they didnt receive the transfer 
request until 6 August 2020. They accepted work didnt start on the transfer until 14 August 
2020, but the account increased in value during this delay, so they added no compensation.
FEP also explained the regulations referred to by Mr K applied to adult ISA transfers. They 
explained in respect of CTFs they had to post a cheque within 30 days of receiving the 
transfer request. They said they met this as a cheque was posted on 3 September 2020. 
Therefore, they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr K remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. Mr K and FEP made submissions, and 
FEP further investigated how they had processed the transfer. Our Investigator issued a 
view and explained why he thought FEP had processed the transfer request within a 
reasonable time. 
Mr K didnt agree with the view. He said he thinks FEP are responsible for most of the delay 
and the resulting financial loss. He said he couldnt accept the statements of FEP unless it 
was supported by clear evidence. Briefly, he said: 
- He was surprised theres no copy of FEPs email reply on 24 July 2020. He said this 
was unprofessional and showed inconsistencies at FEP. He asked how the 
Investigator could be sure of the content of the email. 
- He asked why FEP wasnt able to open a zip file which is a standard format for 
confidential documents. He said a business the size of FEP should be able to. Also, 
they should have IT knowledge relevant to transfers and was concerned to hear it 
was sent by email and not via more secure channels. 
- Also, he understood the transfer was completed within a 30-day period (although he 
disputed the start date) but it still took 28 days to send the funds which is only just 
within the set timescale. He said there is lots of evidence on the internet regarding 
FEPs customer service and referred to users comments on a review website. 
Therefore, the case has passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the overall time scales of the transfer and when doing this Ive considered 
the guidance on transfers of CTFs set out for ISA managers by the government. It confirms 
the transfer should be carried out within the reasonable business period required to carry out 
the transfer not exceeding 30 calendar days. But having considered this, it wouldnt 
necessarily always be reasonable for businesses to take 30 calendar days as they are asked 
to do it within a reasonable timeframe. Therefore, it would depend on the circumstances and 
whether there is evidence of unnecessary delay. 
Ive seen WF sent the transfer documents as a zip file on 23 July 2020. After investigating, 
FEP have accepted they did receive this request. However, they couldnt access the zip file 
and the covering email didnt have sufficient information to link it to Mr Ks account. 
Ive considered what Mr K has said about zip files. However, FEP have now confirmed they 
are able to accept zip files. They cant explain why they couldnt open the zip file received on 
23 July 2020 but theyve said a likely explanation is that it was corrupted. I do understand 
this will be frustrating for Mr K. 
However, it does seem likely there was a problem which prevented FEP from accessing it. 
This is because a later email from WF on 13 August 2020 referred to FEP not being able to 
view the zip file. Also, FEP have explained there were no notes recorded on Mr Ks account 
as they were unable to link the request. Therefore, it does seem there was a problem with 
the file and the evidence Ive seen doesnt persuade me that it was FEPs fault they were 
unable to view it.
 
Nevertheless, I would expect FEP to respond promptly to let WF know about the issue. The 
image of the email from 23 July 2020 shows FEP replied the following day. However, FEP 
are unable to locate a copy of the reply. They also asked WF. FEP said its likely they 
explained they couldnt open the file in the reply. Ive thought about this and I understand Mr 
Ks comments that they should be able to locate it. I agree it would be helpful to see a copy, 
but in its absence, I must consider the information I do have and whats likely to have 
happened on balance.
 
Ive reviewed WFs email of 13 August 2020 and I can see it was from the same contact at 
WF. The contact said theyd just realised FEP might not have been able to open the 
attachment. From this its likely there was a problem with the attachment, which meant FEP 
couldnt view it and the contact had become aware and re-sent it. So, I think, on balance, its 
likely FEP couldnt open the zip file and the circumstances indicate that FEPs reply on 24 
July 2020 said as much. Therefore, I cant say FEP received the transfer request on 23 July 
2020 as they couldnt view it, but it seems they acted reasonably by responding promptly.  
Ive also seen WF had forwarded the request on 6 August 2020 with a zip file. FEP have 
said they were able to view this and progress it, but theyve accepted they didnt progress it 
as quickly as they should have. The account was closed with the investments being sold on 
14 August 2020. 
FEP have said they aim to close the account the day after receiving the request. So, I agree 
there was some delay here as it should have been done shortly after receiving the request dated 6 August 2020. However, FEP have confirmed the funds remained invested until they 
were sold and went up in value by approximately £24. So, theres no evidence of financial 
loss as a result of the delay in this instance.  
FEP have said they usually try and process cheques within two weeks of closing the 
account. Theyve said this wasnt possible because of high volumes and the impact of the 
global pandemic. Theyve told us they sent the cheque on 3 September 2020. We dont have 
evidence of this, but WF confirmed they received the cheque on 8 September 2020. So, it 
does seem the cheque was sent around three weeks after the account was closed. And I 
note this was within 30 days of receiving the initial request on 6 August 2020. 
Ive also reviewed email correspondence from W to Mr K where they provided WFs timeline 
of events. WF said there was an additional letter enclosed with the cheque. I havent seen a 
copy of the letter but in email correspondence WF said it was addressed to Mr K, dated 18 
August 2020 and indicated the cheque had initially been sent to Mr K. However, Mr K 
confirmed he hadnt received anything and FEP have said they sent the funds on 3 
September 2020. So, this isnt sufficient for me to say an error was made here which meant 
it took longer to send the cheque than it otherwise would have. 
Mr K has also referred to the experiences of other customers. Whilst I understand what he 
has said here, my role is to consider the service he received and the circumstances of his 
complaint. 
Overall, FEP should have progressed the transfer more quickly between 6 August 2020 and 
14 August 2020. However, there isnt evidence this delay caused financial loss as the funds 
remained invested and the value of the account increased. I also understand it took longer 
than usual for the cheque to be sent. But I have to bear in mind the circumstances, this 
includes the impact of the global pandemic and the high volumes FEP have explained they 
were experiencing. Also, there doesnt seem to be any errors here which caused 
unnecessary delay in respect of sending the cheque. Im also satisfied it seems the funds 
were sent within 30 days of receiving the request. Bearing everything in mind, Im not going 
to ask FEP to do anything to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman