DRN-4055985
The complaint
G complains about the settlement offered by Aviva Insurance Limited after a claim on its 
property insurance policy following a fire at a property it owns.
Mr B is the director of G and has brought the complaint on its behalf. Throughout this 
complaint Mr B has been represented by a third party, however for ease of reading all 
references to Mr B include the actions of his representative.
What happened
G has a property insurance policy thats underwritten by Aviva for a property it owns and 
rents out. The property consists of a restaurant on the ground floor and residential flats on 
the floors above.
In 2019 there was a fire in the restaurant that caused substantial damage to the ground floor 
of the building. G made a claim on the insurance which was accepted. The required repair 
work began and Aviva made interim payments for G to cover the costs. However in May 
2020 G presented the total costs for the repairs and Aviva raised concerns that the property 
was under insured. It said the cost to restore the restaurant was nearly the same as the total 
amount insured for the rebuild of the whole property.
It subsequently said that the property had been under insured as the rebuild cost had been 
declared as £724,686, which it said was not a reasonable estimation of the cost. It therefore 
said the average clause in the policy would apply. This meant the value of the claim would 
only be paid out at a proportionate rate based on the level of under insurance.
To calculate this it arranged a valuation of the property to estimate the rebuild cost. It valued 
the rebuild at £1,416,000. G disputed this and had its own valuation completed which 
calculated the cost as £1,060,000. Due to the discrepancy Aviva said it would settle the 
claim based on an average of the two valuations - £1,122,660. It said the property was 
insured for 65% of this valuation, so it would pay this proportion of the claim that equated to 
£489,281.
Mr B didnt think this was fair. He said that the valuation provided by Aviva was far too high 
and therefore it wasnt fair that it based the calculations on this. He also said that Aviva 
hadnt mentioned the problem of under insurance until nearly a year into the claim, when he 
had already spent money on repairs and committed to reinstating the building. He made a 
complaint to Aviva on Gs behalf.
Aviva didnt change its position so Mr B brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said she thought Aviva had acted fairly by applying the average clause in the policy. And she 
thought that Aviva only had reason to believe the property was under insured on receipt of 
the quote for the total repairs to the restaurant. So it was reasonable that it only raised 
concerns at that stage of the claim. She also thought Aviva had acted reasonably by 
agreeing to value the property at an average between the two valuations obtained.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators opinion. He said he didnt think the rebuild amount 
provided at the inception of the policy was unreasonably low at the time. And thought it 
wasnt fair that Aviva accepted the claim to begin with and then applied the average clause 
11 months into the claim. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
In October 2022 I issued a provisional decision. In this, I said:
While I noted the average clause in the policy, I thought it fair to first consider whether 
Aviva had fulfilled its duty under the relevant law  the Insurance Act 2015.
Under the Act a commercial customer has a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk 
to the insurer. In order to fulfil a fair presentation of risk, the Act says a commercial 
policyholder must disclose everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence 
the judgment of an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms.
Mr B had valued the rebuild of the property at £724,686 when he took the policy out, 
however he had a valuation for just the ground floor restaurant that indicated the true 
cost would exceed this sum from two years before he took out the policy. I therefore 
concluded that he ought to have known the estimate he provided for the rebuild wasnt a 
reasonable one.
Aviva provided evidence to show that it would have charged a higher premium if it had 
been provided with a reasonable estimate for the rebuild cost, I therefore concluded 
there had been a qualifying breach under the Insurance Act.
Under the Act, in these circumstances, it allows the insurer to settle the claim on a 
proportionate basis based on the proportion of premiums that were paid, compared to 
those that should have been. I calculated that based on this, the Act required Aviva to 
pay 81% of the claim rather than the 65% it had offered.
I also considered whether Aviva had done enough to meet the transparency 
requirements in order to contract out of the Act. As part of these, Aviva was required to 
make the term, and any potential disadvantageous impact of the fact it departs from the 
relevant law, clear to its customer at the point of sale.
I concluded that while the average clause was clear in the policy, it wasnt clear that 
applying this term is a departure from the law and may be disadvantageous to its 
customer. I therefore didnt agree Aviva had met its obligations under the transparency 
requirements.
I also considered the fact that Mr B was a sophisticated customer due to the fact he 
owned a property portfolio and that he bought the policy through a broker. But I didnt 
think Aviva had provided enough evidence to show that it had made the term clear to the 
broker, and it was ultimately Avivas responsibility to do so.
I therefore concluded that it wasnt fair for Aviva to rely on the average clause and it 
should settle Gs claim under the remedies available in the Insurance Act, settling it at 
81% of the total cost rather than 65%.
Since I issued my provisional decision, Aviva has provided additional evidence relating to the 
information and training it provided to Gs broker prior to the inception of the policy. Based 
on this, I re-considered whether it met its obligations under the transparency requirements.
On 14 March 2023 I issued a second provisional decision in which I stated:
Under the Insurance Act, where a term is disadvantageous, in order to contract out an 
insurer must meet the following requirements:
The transparency requirements
(1)In this section, the disadvantageous term means such a term as is mentioned in section
16(2).
(2)The insurer must take sufficient steps to draw the disadvantageous term to the insureds
attention before the contract is entered into or the variation agreed.(3)The disadvantageous term must be clear and unambiguous as to its effect.
(4) In determining whether the requirements of subsections (2) and (3) have been met, the
characteristics of insured persons of the kind in question, and the circumstances of the
transaction, are to be taken into account.
(5) The insured may not rely on any failure on the part of the insurer to meet the
requirements of subsection (2) if the insured (or its agent) had actual knowledge of the
disadvantageous term when the contract was entered into or the variation agreed.
(16. 2 as referred above states: 16 (2)A term of a non-consumer insurance contract, or of
any other contract, which would put the insured in a worse position as respects any of the
other matters provided for in Part 2, 3 or 4 of this Act than the insured would be in by virtue
of the provisions of those Parts (so far as relating to non-consumer insurance contracts) is to
that extent of no effect, unless the requirements of section 17 have been satisfied in relation
to the term.)
I explained in my provisional decision why I thought the term in the policy would be
disadvantageous. As G would be at a disadvantage when the term is applied compared to
when the Act is applied  which I demonstrated in my calculations of the settlement. I
therefore consider that the transparency requirements need to be met in order for Aviva to
contract out from the Insurance Act.
Here, the policy was sold to G through a broker, that Ill refer to as J. Therefore under the
Act if Aviva can show that J  acting as Gs agent here  had actual knowledge of the
disadvantageous term at the time it sold the policy to G then this would meet the
requirements.
Ive also considered comments from The Law Commission Report on Insurance contract law
that was published in 2014, the recommendations of which were implemented through the
Insurance Act 2015. This stated as follows:
29.42 Where the insured is using a broker, we think drawing the brokers attention to the
disadvantageous term would be sufficient. In many instances there will be little or no direct
contact between the insurer and the insured, with everything being done through
intermediaries. In such a situation, it is the brokers responsibility to ensure the insured is
aware of the term. This is not specified in the draft Bill, but is a matter of general agency
law.
Since my provisional decision, Aviva has provided evidence of the information and training it
provided to J as part of its relationship with the broker. All of which was provided before the
inception of Gs policy. This included a number of detailed references and discussion about
the average clause, the average waiver and underinsurance more generally. Alongside a
statement from its account manager that looked after its relationship with J. The evidence
included:
Discussion between J and Aviva during the initial tender about the policy which includes 
numerous references to the average clause, the average waiver and Avivas valuation 
service.
Specific discussion around the average clause and potential changes to the wording
of the policy in relation to this.
Specific reference to the support Aviva provides its customers in obtaining accurate 
valuations in order to avoid underinsurance.
Slides from training sessions delivered to J by Aviva that specifically reference
underinsurance and valuations.
Further, Mr B has provided a copy of the proposal J sent him that recommended Avivaspolicy for G. This document contains direct reference to the average clause and waiver in
the policy as part of a nine point list of the main features and benefits.
Based on this evidence, I think Aviva has now done enough to show that it drew the term to
Js attention. And that J, as Gs agent, had actual knowledge of the average clause in the
policy and its possible consequences at the time the policy was sold to G.
For this reason, based on this new evidence, I think Aviva has done enough to meet the
transparency requirements and to contract out from the Insurance Act.
The Average clause in the policy states as follows:
Where a Sum Insured is stated to be subject to average, this means that if at the time of
Damage, the Sum Insured is less than the total value of the Property Insured, You will be
responsible for the difference and bear a proportionate share of the loss.
In my provisional decision, I explained why I was persuaded that the estimate Mr B provided
for the sum insured when the policy was taken out wasnt a reasonable one based on the
information he had available to him at the time. I also explained that I thought it fair that
Aviva use the average of the two valuations  Gs and its own. And I see no reason to depart
from these conclusions.
As Im now satisfied that Aviva has done enough to show it met the transparency
requirements I therefore think its applied this term fairly. And find that its settlement offer of
65% of the full claim cost is a fair one.
I note that the policy also contains an average waiver that removes the average clause
where certain conditions are met. The policy states as follows:
We will not make an adjustment for Average condition irrespective of what may otherwise
be stated in the Basis of Claim Settlement Clause that may be applicable to the Building(s)
item where You have
(1) taken all reasonable steps to ensure that the Building(s) item Sum Insured is adequate,
and
(2) obtained a valuation for the Building(s), that has been calculated as the cost of
reinstating the Building(s) as defined within the Policy Definitions including debris removal
costs and associated professional fees, from a Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors
professional or such other person agreed by Us within the three years prior to the date of the
Damage, and
(3) adjusted the Sum Insured in line with the valuation, and
(4) made annual adjustments of the Sum Insured based on the General Building Cost Index
issued by the Building Cost Information Service of the Royal Institution of Chartered
Surveyors or alternative index as may be agreed by Us in writing.
We will request a copy of the valuation at the time of a claim.
While a valuation was received by Mr B in around 2016, this indicated that the sum insured
would have been significantly higher and Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr B took any
action to adjust the sum insured in line with that valuation. I am therefore satisfied that the
waiver wouldnt apply in these circumstances.
For these reasons, I think Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably by applying the average
clause in the settlement of Gs claim. Its shown its done enough to meet the transparency
requirements to contract out of the Insurance Act and I am persuaded that the average
waiver wouldnt apply in this instance. I am therefore minded not to uphold this complaint orask Aviva to do anything further.
Response to my second provisional decision
Mr B responded to my provisional decision with the following points, which I have 
summarised:
The information Mr B had available to him when he incepted the policy suggested the 
rebuild value of the property was £500,000 which was significantly less than the sum 
insured. So he had made a fair presentation of the risk from the start of the policy and 
hadnt made a qualifying breach under the Insurance Act.
He didnt agree that J had a clear understanding of the average clause in the policy, 
which was demonstrated by unclear wording around the average waiver provided in the 
initial proposal document. 
I said the average waiver wouldnt apply because the valuation he had at inception 
showed the sum insured should have been higher, which Mr B says wasnt the case so 
doesnt agree the average waiver wouldnt apply. 
Aviva responded to my provisional decision. In summary it said:
Avivas position is that the Insurance Act is of no legal relevance to the average clause in 
the policy and this wasnt reflected in my decision.
It asked for specific wording to be added to the decision to properly reflect this. 
I have considered all points raised by each side when reaching my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr B has said about the adequacy of the sum insured when the policy 
was incepted. And while I agree the amount on the valuation he obtained was less than the 
declared rebuild value on the policy, this valuation was only for the ground floor restaurant 
and one of the residential units. Whereas the building was made up of the commercial unit 
and three residential units. The valuation indicated that the approximate rebuild cost was 
around £500,000 for the two units alone and the market value was £1,045,000 when 
occupied and £875,000 when vacant. When the policy was set up a rebuild cost of £724,686 
for the entire property was provided. So whilst the rebuild cost for two of the four units was 
lower than the sum insured, this wasnt a valuation of the property in its entirety. So Mr B 
should have known this wasnt a true reflection of the rebuild cost of the whole property. 
Further, the declared value of the property was below the amount specified in this valuation, 
so I think Mr B ought to have known the information he provided at inception wasnt a true 
reflection of the full value and rebuild cost of the property. 
But regardless of the value given at inception. Both sides are in agreement that the property 
was underinsured at the time of the claim. And while the valuations provided from each side 
vary, they are both over the amount insured. So regardless of whether the property was 
underinsured at inception, it was certainly underinsured at the most recent policy renewal to 
the claim  in September 2018  and at the time of the claim. And this means Aviva is 
entitled to take some action. Ive also considered what Mr B has said about the average waiver and for the reasons I have 
already laid out above, I dont agree the valuation obtained in 2016 was enough for Mr B to 
be sure that the rebuild cost and value given at the inception of the policy was correct. But 
regardless the average waiver also requires the valuation to be from within three years of the 
claim, and it specifies that it must be from a certain specified surveyor and the valuation 
obtained in February 2016 by Mr B met neither of these criteria. So Im satisfied that the 
average waiver wouldnt apply to Gs claim. 
Further, Ive considered what Mr B has said about Js knowledge of the average clause in 
the policy. Mr B has said that the proposal sent to him when switching his insurance to Aviva 
stated that the policy provided: Average free buildings cover where a RICS valuation has 
been carried out in the last 3 years. Hes said that this shows J didnt have a proper 
understanding of the average term in the policy, as the average waiver only applies when 
the valuation was carried out within three years of the damage that gave rise to a claim and 
this isnt what J described. 
Ive considered this but it doesnt change my position. In this complaint, Im considering 
whether J had actual knowledge of the disadvantageous clause in the policy as described 
in the Insurance Act. Im not considering anything in relation to the sale of the policy or the 
information provided at the point of sale. 
In particular, Im considering whether point 5 of the transparency requirements has been 
met:
(5) The insured may not rely on any failure on the part of the insurer to meet the
requirements of subsection (2) if the insured (or its agent) had actual knowledge of the
disadvantageous term when the contract was entered into or the variation agreed.
And the following extract of The Law Commission Report on Insurance contract law
that was published in 2014:
29.42 Where the insured is using a broker, we think drawing the brokers attention to the
disadvantageous term would be sufficient. In many instances there will be little or no direct
contact between the insurer and the insured, with everything being done through
intermediaries. In such a situation, it is the brokers responsibility to ensure the insured is
aware of the term. This is not specified in the draft Bill, but is a matter of general agency
law.
The fact that J quoted the average waiver in its initial proposal shows that it had actual 
knowledge of the clause in the policy. And Ive considered this alongside evidence provided 
by Aviva about the training and information it provided J about the policy before the 
inception. And based on all the evidence I remain persuaded that Aviva did enough to 
ensure J had actual knowledge of the term. I understand Mr B thinks J didnt make it clear 
exactly what the requirements of the average waiver were in its proposal document, however 
this isnt the determination I am making here. I just need to be satisfied that J had actual 
knowledge of the term. I laid out in my second provisional decision why Id been persuaded 
that it did, and Ive seen nothing new that persuades me otherwise since.
Finally, Aviva has said that it feels I didnt address its key objection that the Insurance Act is 
of no legal relevance to the application of the average clause and has suggested I add some 
specific wording to my final decision in order to satisfy it that I have addressed this point. In 
both my first and second provisional decisions I laid out why I thought the Insurance Act was 
relevant to this complaint about under insurance, including why the clause was 
disadvantageous and the conditions that need to be met under the Act in order for an insurer to meet the transparency requirements and formally contract out of the law. So I dont agree 
I need to add anything further on this point. 
So after considering everything again, including the responses to my second provisional 
decision, I see no reason to depart from my findings as laid out in that decision. I therefore 
dont uphold Gs complaint and think Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably by applying the 
average clause in the policy to the claim settlement.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman