DRN-2932332
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly reversed a chargeback credit and about 
how long it took to do so.
What happened
Mr S asked Barclays to raise a chargeback for a car hire dispute. He says Barclays refunded 
the disputed amount and it was credited to his credit card account. Mr S says that about 
eight months later Barclays removed the credit from his account and told him he owed it the 
money which was just over £1,000. He says that is unfair and has caused him distress and 
inconvenience which he would like compensation for as well as the money refunded.
Barclays says it told Mr S in May 2020 that he would be liable for some of the disputed 
balance, but it accepts it made a mistake by taking some eight months to deduct the money 
from his account. Its apologised for that mistake and paid £100 compensation.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
accepted Barclays made a mistake but thought its compensation offer appropriate. But 
thought Mr S had been told that he was liable for part of the disputed amount and could have 
told Barclays that it hasnt removed the credit.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and maintains Barclays actions were unfair and also says it 
didnt deal appropriately with the original chargeback.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr S will be disappointed by my decision. And I make clear to him I am not 
looking into the merits of his chargeback claim but only into Barclays actions in deducting the 
temporary credit to his account and how long it took.
I have looked carefully at Barclays records and can see it told Mr S the outcome of the 
chargeback and that he would be liable for just over £1,000 of the disputed amount. So, Im 
satisfied Mr S ought reasonably to have known in May 2020 that some of the temporary 
credit would be reversed and that Barclays made clear that following the chargeback, the 
refund he received was temporary.
There is no dispute here that Barclays took some eight months to remove the credit from Mr 
Ss account. I appreciate Mr Ss frustration in those circumstances and accept that Barclays 
ought to have made the transaction some time before it did. But Im satisfied Barclays has 
fairly apologised for its mistake and paid what I think is a fair and reasonable compensation 
amount of £100. I dont think Mr S suffered any financial loss, as it was made clear to him 
how much would be deducted by Barclays. The only issue here is the delay as Im satisfied 
Barclays was entitled to its money back.
I appreciate Mr S still questions the handling of the chargeback and the fairness of it. Those 
are issues I cant consider.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays has fairly apologised for the delay here and has paid an 
appropriate compensation amount. Im satisfied it didnt make a mistake in removing the 
credit and that it told Mr S why it was doing so. I find it would be unfair to order Barclays to 
refund the money in these circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman