DRN-4229424
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Punter Southall Wealth Limited (PSW) gave her unsuitable advice to 
transfer the deferred benefits in a defined benefits (DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) 
to a self-invested pension plan (SIPP). Mrs K says that she will have lower pension benefits 
as a result of this unsuitable advice.
What happened
Mrs K and her husband, Mr K, both met with PSW in June 2017 to discuss their combined 
pension and retirement needs. 
PSW completed a fact-find to gather information about both Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances. 
In the fact-find that PSW completed in June 2017 it ascertained that:
Mrs K was 55 years old
She was in full time work paying into an occupational pension scheme
Mr and Mrs K had no dependent children
They had a combined household annual income of £50,261 gross (£40,739 net) and 
combined household essential expenditure (including credit card payments) of 
£24,828
They had an interest only mortgage with twelve years to run. Their house was valued 
around £245,000 with outstanding mortgage capital of £223,000 to repay in 12 years 
time
Mrs K had deferred benefits in a DB scheme with a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) around £170,000
She was a contributing member of her employers DB scheme
She had no savings or investments
She had credit card debt of £3,783 and an unsecured loan of £10,000 from her 
mother
She expected to inherit around £30,000 from her mother at some point in the future
In the fact-find PSW listed Mrs Ks objectives as being inheritability, control and flexibility. 
Recording that Mrs K wanted immediate access to £25,000 tax-free cash from her pension 
in order to repay credit cards and the loan to her mother, gift some money to her children 
and to have an emergency fund with the remainder. It recorded that both Mr and Mrs K may 
look to phase retirement from age 60 by reducing hours and fully retire at age 67. 
PSW also carried out an assessment of Mrs Ks attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
balanced. 
On 25 July 2017, PSW advised Mrs K to transfer her pension benefits into a SIPP and invest 
the proceeds. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were that 
Mrs K wouldnt be giving up valuable benefits that would have a detrimental effect on her 
standard of living. It said that the transfer would meet Mrs Ks objectives of more investment 
control and flexibility to take tax-free cash immediately.
PSW wrote to Mrs K again on 30 August 2017 to explain that it had received an updated 
transfer value analysis (TVAS) for her pension transfer. That indicated that the critical yield  
investment return needed each year for the transferred amount to provide benefits 
equivalent to those available from the DB scheme  was now 12.9% at age 60 (or 9.2% if 
taking tax free cash and a reduced pension). The letter explained that these levels of return 
were unlikely to be achieved, but that the transfer was still suitable because of her objectives 
of greater investment control, flexibility to vary her income, and beneficial death benefits.
Mrs K complained in 2022 to PSW because she didnt think that the advice to transfer had 
been suitable. Both she and her husband had been advised to transfer DB schemes in 2017 
and PSW had contacted her husband following a review of its advice and compensated him 
for unsuitable advice. Mrs K said that, as her circumstances were the same as her 
husbands it couldnt have been suitable for her to transfer her DB scheme either. 
PSW didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint. It said that it had employed the services of an 
independent third party who had reviewed Mrs Ks pension transfer using the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Defined Benefit Advice Assessment Tool (DBAAT). That review 
considered the combined advice to both Mrs K and her husband. And found that it wasnt 
suitable to recommend that both Mr and Mrs K transfer the deferred benefits they held in DB 
schemes to meet their need for immediate funds. PSW explained that the review found that 
Mr K ought to have been advised to retain his DB scheme benefits, which would have meant 
less reliance on Mrs Ks pension in retirement. So it wasnt unsuitable to transfer her DB 
scheme as a way to meet her objectives.
Mrs K referred her complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
required PSW to pay compensation. He explained why he didnt think that transferring was 
likely to provide benefits that were as valuable as those given up. He then considered the 
other reasons that PSW had said justified its recommendation. But didnt think that Mrs K 
had an unavoidable need to access tax-free cash at 55. And whilst accepting that 
transferring gave greater flexibility he didnt agree that Mrs K needed that flexibility. 
PSW disagreed for a number of reasons including:
The advice that was given considered the joint circumstances of Mr and Mrs K
It has already accepted the finding of its review which is that Mr K should not have 
been advised to give up a guaranteed annual income of £9,858 at age 60 and have 
paid redress to put that right  improving the household financial position meaning 
Mrs K is able to bear the risks of her DB scheme transfer
Mrs K had appropriate capacity for loss because her deferred DB scheme was only a 
small part of the overall household income
The transfer addressed the income shortfall from age 60 to age 67
The approach that the investigator took was incorrect and too narrow. It pointed out 
that COBS 19.1.6G (presumption of unsuitability for DB scheme transfers) was 
guidance and not mandatory. It considered it was to assist in support of the rules 
COBS 9.2.1R and 9.2.3R
This case had been assessed already by very experienced specialists trained in the 
use of the DBAAT
It dismissed the discount rate quoted by the investigator as being a reasonable 
assessment of likely return saying that the 5% medium projection was more relevant.
It said that it still considered the transfer to be financially viable
The critical yield approach isnt particularly relevant in this case because Mrs K 
intended to access benefits flexibly and improve death benefits. And PSW think that 
the single life critical yield of 5.2% is more relevant than the joint life rate of 9.2%
The transfer would enable Mr and Mrs K to retire from age 60 without having to find part-time work to meet their income needs, and for Mrs K to meet her immediate 
capital objective.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision. He explained that the lower figure of critical yield didnt reflect a 
proper comparison with the benefits Mrs K was losing. And that, whilst repaying debts was 
prudent financial planning, he didnt think it warranted giving up guaranteed benefits 
throughout retirement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of PSW's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. I acknowledge 
PSWs point that this is guidance and not a rule. But the FCA have seen fit to issue this 
specific guidance because of the potential for harm in pension transfers of this type. So, I 
think that PSW should have only recommended Mrs Ks transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in her best interests. And having looked at all the evidence 
available, Im not satisfied it was.
Financial viability 
Mrs Ks DB scheme provided valuable guaranteed benefits in retirement. As well as a 
number of options about when and how she could take those benefits. In considering 
financial viability, what Im looking at is whether Mrs K was likely to be better off overall by 
transferring this pension, based on the information PSW had. It was something that PSW 
were expected to consider.The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. PSW have explained that there was no 
regulatory obligation on it to consider the discount rate in assessing this transfer. Which is 
correct. But I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. 
Mrs K was 55 at the time of the advice. The fact-find indicates that Mrs K and her husband 
were interested in reducing their working hours after age 60. But didnt indicate that they 
wanted or expected to stop working at that time. Both were working in occupations with 
ongoing DB pensions that they were members of. And they seemed content to continue 
working toward state retirement age of 67. Given their circumstances though, I think that  
accessing benefits in a way to facilitate a phased retirement from age 60 was a realistic 
objective. Both Mrs K and Mr K had deferred DB scheme benefits that enabled them access 
at age 60. So I think that its more likely than not that Mrs K would have taken benefits from 
her deferred DB scheme by age 60 regardless of the recommendation from PSW.
According to the TVAS that PSW obtained in August 2017, the critical yield required to 
match Mrs Ks benefits at age 60 was 12.9% if she took a full pension and 9.2% if she took 
TFC and a reduced pension. I think that its likely that she would have taken the TFC 
available from her scheme given her interest in a lump sum. So, like our investigator 
explained, I think the critical yield of 9.2% is the more relevant figure. The purpose of this 
figure is to help determine the likelihood that transferring the benefits would produce benefits 
of an equal or better value. PSW suggest that the critical yield figure of 5.2% for a single life 
annuity comparison is more appropriate. But I disagree. I understand that Mr K may have 
had his own retirement benefits making him less dependent on spouse death benefits from 
Mrs Ks pension. But that doesnt mean it wasnt a valuable part of her benefits or that it was 
okay to write it off as unimportant.
This compares with the discount rate of 3% per year for 4 years to retirement in this case. 
Taken from either the point of the initial recommendation in July 2017, or when the 
supplemental recommendation was sent in September 2017 after receipt of the full TVAS.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 2%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 8%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mrs Ks 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mrs K 
giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the relevant critical yield was 
9.2%, I think Mrs K was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than 
the DB scheme at age 60, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk.
In responding to this complaint PSW have stated they consider that the transfer was 
financially viable. But I think that statement misses the point. In considering the financial 
viability of this transfer I am considering whether it was likely to leave Mrs K better off overall 
for this specific product. And the evidence suggests that it would not have done. Of course 
financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as PSW has 
argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mrs K required the flexibility in retirement that PSW say she did. This is because 
based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think she had a genuine need to access her TFC immediately, and leave her funds invested until age 60. I say this because Mrs K and her 
husband were able to comfortably cover their expenses and repay their debts. PSW 
documented that their surplus of net income over expenditure was about £16,000 a year 
(after credit card repayments had been accounted for). 
It was recognised that Mr and Mrs K had no other savings because theyd recently covered 
the cost of a wedding. They would have had a difficult period rebuilding their savings and 
paying off their debt. But they had the means to do so without transferring her DB scheme 
benefits. Mrs K has told us that she was not under pressure to cover the outgoings. And 
PSW should have looked closer at this. It recorded in the fact-find that Mrs K didnt want to 
take on other debt because of the cost. But that didnt mean that PSW had to discount it 
without proper comparison. There was, after all, a cost in giving up her deferred benefits as 
Ive explained above. 
I also cant see evidence that Mrs K had a strong need for variable income throughout her 
retirement. This is because PSW determined that Mr and Mrs K believed that they would 
need about £20-25,000 in retirement. But that seems conservative. And already a figure well 
below their potential retirement income if PSW had recommended they take their DB 
scheme benefits in the form they were intended. It was identified that Mr and Mrs K would 
likely have to find rental accommodation in retirement, and this would be an ongoing 
expense for the rest of their lives that would continue to increase. I cant see that a regular 
and increasing income wasnt in their best interests.
PSW has said that its advice will have enabled Mrs K to stop working at age 60 and be able 
to use draw down to cover any deficit in her household income until she reached state 
retirement age. And this is also the part of the premise that has been relied upon in the 
DBAAT review that PSW contracted. But that wasnt actually listed as an objective in the 
fact-find.
PSWs fact-find documented clients may both look to phase retirement from 60 by reducing 
hours at work and likely to fully retire by 67 when state pension kicks in. This was the 
objective that PSW ought to have been considering. It didnt explore the extent to which 
either Mr or Mrs K would look to reduce hours. Or what additional income it would need to 
raise to allow them to do so. But Mrs Ks deferred DB scheme could be taken at age 60. And 
the TVAS that PSW obtained showed that it would pay an annual salary around £6,200 a 
year (increasing for life) or a lump sum of £30,842 and an annual income around £4,600. 
And PSW were also aware that Mr Ks deferred DB scheme guaranteed him an income 
around £10,000 from age 60 as well. On balance, I dont think that Mrs K needed to transfer 
her scheme in order to achieve her goal of reducing her hours at age 60 either. PSW should 
have made it clear to her that she was already in a strong position to do that if she wished 
when the time came.
It goes without saying that this early pension income would then be added to by the DB 
schemes that they were contributing to when they eventually stopped working. And then 
their state pensions at age 67. Which meant that the existing pension arrangements that Mr 
and Mrs K already had seemed to comfortably exceed the estimated household income 
needed in retirement.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mrs K. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mrs K might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise Mrs K about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think PSW explored to what extent 
Mrs K was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mrs K 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to her spouse if Mrs K predeceased him. I dont think PSW made the value of this benefit 
clear enough to Mrs K. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In 
any event, PSW should not have encouraged Mrs K to prioritise the potential for higher 
death benefits through a personal pension over her security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mrs K genuinely wanted to leave a legacy which didnt depend on investment 
returns or how much of her pension fund remained on her death, I think PSW shouldve 
instead explored life insurance.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs K. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.
Control 
I think Mrs Ks desire for control over her pension benefits was overstated. Mrs K was not an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that she had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage her pension funds on their own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mrs K  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from her DB scheme 
and into a SIPP. And meant that the requirement and cost of ongoing financial reviews was 
likely to be necessary.
Independent skilled person review
I recognise that, prior to Mrs K making her complaint, PSW appointed an independent third 
party to review the advice that it provided Mr and Mrs K in 2017. And that it used the FCAs 
DBAAT in coming to its conclusion that Mrs Ks transfer was suitable. The DBAAT is a tool 
designed to help guide users in determining whether DB transfer advice was suitable in a 
specific case.
I would assure PSW that, like our investigator, I have considered the third party assessment 
as well as all of the documents provided. However, Im considering the advice PSW gave 
Mrs K independently and Im not bound by what the skilled person decided. As set out at the 
beginning of the decision Ive taken into account COBS 9 and COBS 19 as well as the 
Principles, FCA rules and guidance and good industry practice. Having done so Ive reached 
a different outcome for the reasons set out above. 
The skilled person review relied on the information provided by PSW. And in doing so 
concluded that Mrs K aspired to retire at 60. Meaning that she and Mr K would have needed 
some way to fund their lifestyle until age 67. But, as I explained, I think that assumption was 
incorrect. It didnt accurately reflect the comments recorded in PSWs fact-find. And doesnt 
reflect Mrs Ks testimony  which the skilled reviewer would not have had. The fact that 
Mrs K intended to work up to age 67 in some form makes a significant difference to the 
outcome. It means that the existing benefits available to Mrs K through her DB scheme at 
age 60 were likely to be enough to enable her to reduce her hours if she wished.The independent review also used a critical yield figure of 4.54%, which as Ive explained 
above, was not accurate. It meant that I dont agree with the reviews finding that the transfer 
was likely to also be financially viable.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mrs K. But PSW 
wasnt there to just transact what Mrs K might have thought she wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mrs K needed and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs K was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mrs K was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mrs K shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to repay debts that were affordable, and the potential for higher death benefits 
wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with her DB scheme.
So, I think PSW shouldve advised Mrs K to remain in their DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs K would've gone ahead anyway, against PSW's 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mrs K wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against PSWs advice. I say this because Mrs K was an 
inexperienced investor with a balanced attitude to risk and this pension accounted for an 
important part of Mrs Ks retirement provision. So, if PSW had provided her with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I 
think she wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think PSW should compensate Mrs K for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs K, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs K would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
PSW must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, for the reasons Ive given above, I think Mrs K would have instead taken her DB 
scheme benefits at age 60. So, compensation should be based on her taking benefits at that 
age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mrs Ks acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, PSW should:calculate and offer Mrs K redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mrs K before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mrs K receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mrs K accepts PSWs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mrs K for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of their redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mrs Ks end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mrs K as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, PSW may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mrs Ks likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Punter Southall Wealth 
Limited to pay Mrs K the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Punter Southall Wealth Limited pays Mrs K the balance.
If payment of compensation is not made within 90 days of PSW receiving Mrs K's 
acceptance of my final decision, interest must be added to the compensation at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If PSW deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mrs K how much has been taken off. PSW should give Mrs K a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs K asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HMRC if appropriate.
If Mrs K accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Punter Southall Wealth 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs K can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs K may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Gary LaneOmbudsman