DRN-4114457
The complaint
Mr S, through a representative complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat) didnt carry out proportionate affordability checks before it 
granted his loans.
What happened
Mr S was advanced 11 loans and Ive included some of the information weve received about 
them in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £200.00 04/05/2020 05/06/2020 4 £57.57*
2 £400.00 06/06/2020 08/06/2020 4 £150.18
3 £400.00 20/06/2020 23/09/2020 4 £139.56
4 £200.00 29/09/2020 23/10/2020 3 £76.24*
5 £400.00 23/02/2021 30/04/2021 4 £140.78
6 £200.00 12/06/2021 20/07/2021 4 £60.03*
7 £200.00 28/08/2021 21/09/2021 3 £74.77*
8 £200.00 24/09/2021 26/10/2021 3 £99.57
9 £350.00 04/03/2022 20/05/2022 3 £158.27
10 £200.00 01/06/2022 20/06/2022 2 £124.07
11 £300.00 23/06/2022 19/07/2022 2 £193.30
*weekly payments 
MoneyBoat also provided details of a further four credit agreements that were produced but 
after further investigation it confirmed these loans werent funded. 
Following Mr Ss complaint MoneyBoat wrote to his representative to explain that it wasnt 
going to uphold the complaint. However, it did agree, as a gesture of goodwill to refund the 
interest that Mr S paid on his final six loans  which came to £321.75.  Mr Ss representative 
didnt accept the outcome and referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. She thought MoneyBoat had made a reasonable 
decision to provide loans 1 - 4 so she didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint about them. 
The adjudicator said when loan 5 was approved, further checks ought to have been carried 
out and had they been done, MoneyBoat wouldve seen that Mr S owed other payday 
lenders over £750 at the time, and so the loan wasnt sustainable. Finally, she thought the 
lending was now harmful for Mr S by the time loans 6 to 11 were granted and so she upheld 
Mr Ss complaint about these loans as well. 
MoneyBoat disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached about loans 5 - 11. Ive 
summarised its comments below;
MoneyBoat cant find the short term / high-cost credit loans the adjudicator referred 
to when loan 5 was granted. 
Other loans around the time of loan 5 have been seen but these appear to be longer 
term liabilities. 
Nothing from the credit check results indicate these loans were unaffordable. 
Mr Ss representative confirmed it had received the adjudicators view, but no further 
comments were provided.  
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr S could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ss income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include:
Mr S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr S. The adjudicator thought this 
applied in Mr Ss complaint from loan 6. 
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr S was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ss complaint.
Neither MoneyBoat nor Mr S (or his representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the 
adjudicator reached about loans 1 - 4. I therefore no longer think the loans are in dispute. 
So, I say no more about them. Instead, this decision will focus on whether loans 5 to 11 
ought to have been granted. 
Loans 5
For this loan, Mr S declared an income of £2,200 per month and MoneyBoat says this figure 
was cross referenced through a third-party report. So MoneyBoat believed this income figure 
to be accurate. 
Mr S also declared monthly outgoings of £459. As part of the application, MoneyBoat used 
information from its credit search to adjust the declared expenditure Mr S provided. As a 
result, of this check, Mr Ss monthly expenditure was increased by £391 per month.
After carrying out these checks, Mr Ss disposable monthly income was £1,350.  Even when 
MoneyBoat made adjustments to the disposable income that Mr S had declared, he still had 
sufficient income to be able to afford the repayments he had to make. 
A credit search was also conducted by MoneyBoat, and a copy of the results have been 
provided. This showed that Mr S had just over £16,000 of debt, spread across 12 active 
credit accounts. However, Mr S had opened 9 accounts within the last six months  more 
than on average of one per month and only one of these 9 is likely to be a previous 
MoneyBoat loan. 
However, while MoneyBoat believed the loan to be affordable, I do think that the checks 
needed to go further considering the number of loans and time in debt which ought to have 
led MoneyBoat question whether it knew enough about Mr Ss finances. 
MoneyBoat couldve carried out these additional checks, in several ways, it couldve asked 
for evidence of his outgoings such as copy bills. It couldve asked to see copies of 
Mr Ss bank statements or any other documentation it felt it needed to obtain to satisfy itself 
that it had carried out more robust checks. 
Mr Ss representative has provided his bank statements from around the time this loan was 
advanced. Having looked at them, Mr S had at least three payday loans outstanding, and a 
revolving credit facility provided by a high-cost lender. The total cost, per month to Mr S to 
repay these accounts was £850. And in the week, before the loan was provided, Mr S was 
advanced a further £1,500 from another two other high-cost credit providers  which 
wouldve increased his costs to such providers even more.  And so, with at least five 
outstanding payday loans and a revolving credit facility  in my view, any further borrowing 
was unsustainable. 
I uphold Mr Ss complaint about this loan. 
Loans 6 - 11 
For these loans, MoneyBoat has shown that it carried out the same sort of checks. It asked 
for details of Mr Ss income, expenditure and it also carried out a credit search. For some of 
the loans it seems MoneyBoat obtained copies of Mr Ss wage slip. And these checks do 
suggest, that Mr S had sufficient funds to be able to afford the loan repayments. As before, it wouldve been reasonable for MoneyBoat to have at the very least, started to 
have verified the information it was being given. Ive not seen anything to suggest it carried 
out further checks in this case. However, I dont think I need to try and establish, whether a 
proportionate check wouldve led MoneyBoat to conclude these loans were unaffordable for 
Mr S. 
So, in addition to looking at the checks that MoneyBoat did, Ive also looked at the overall 
pattern of MoneyBoat lending history with Mr S, with a view to seeing if there was a point at 
which MoneyBoat should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so MoneyBoat should have realised that it shouldnt have provided 
any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think that this point was reached by loan 6. I say 
this because:
At this point MoneyBoat ought to have realised Mr S was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr S had taken out six loans in 13 months. So MoneyBoat ought 
to have realised it was more likely than not Mr S was having to borrow further to 
cover a long-term short fall in his living costs. 
At times, Mr S was provided with a loan shortly after one was repaid, for example 3 
days after loan 10 was repaid he returned for loan 11. To me this could be a sign that 
Mr S may have been using these loans to fill a long-term gap in his income rather 
than as a short-term need.  
Over the course of the lending relationship, Mr Ss weekly commitments usually 
fluctuated and indeed there were times when the information wasnt plausible, such 
as when he declared he had zero costs for food each month.  However, the fact that 
Mr S appears to have had a need for further loans, ought to have led it to realise 
these loans werent sustainable anymore. 
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed MoneyBoat. Loan 11 
was taken out 24 months after Mr Ss first loan and was to be repaid over a shorter 
term  only two months and it was 50% larger compared to his first loan. It also had 
one of the largest monthly repayments. Mr S had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to MoneyBoat over an extended period.
I think that Mr S lost out when MoneyBoat provided loans 6 - 11 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr S borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Ss ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
Overall, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint about loans 5 to 11 and Ive outlined below what 
MoneyBoat needs to do in order to put things right.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had if it had stopping lending from loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided Mr S with loans 5 - 11. 
A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything MoneyBoat has already refunded.
B. MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. MoneyBoat should pay Mr S the total of A plus B.
D. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in 
relation to loan 5. The overall pattern of Mr Ss borrowing for loans 6 - 11 means any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so MoneyBoat should remove these 
loans entirely from Mr Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint in part. 
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Mr S as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman