DRN-3547297
The complaint
A company, which I will refer to as H, complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited (RSA)s handling of their buildings insurance claim.
Mr P has brought the complaint on behalf of H, and is represented in the complaint by Mr L. 
However, for ease I will simply refer to H below.
All references to RSA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I cant consider in my decision
My decision focusses on events up to September 2021, when RSA were obliged to provide 
H with referral rights to our service.  
I can see some of the things H has complained about relate to RSAs handling of their 
complaint. There are a number of factors that determine whether or not we can consider a 
complaint, such as whether the activity complained about is something we can investigate.
DISP 2.3.1R says The ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory 
jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the 
following activities. 
Following that is a list of activities that we can investigate.  That means we can only 
investigate Hs complaint if the actions of RSA in handling the complaint are a regulated or 
otherwise covered activity. 
That list doesnt include complaint handling. So as the activity isnt one the regulator 
authorises, and it isnt an activity covered otherwise under the rules, Ive not considered the 
issues H has raised about complaint handling in my decision.
My findings
I understand H has strong views about whats happened. Ive read and considered 
everything theyve said carefully. However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues and wont cover all the points raised. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but 
rather to reflect the informal nature of our service. 
Having considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for 
these reasons:
Ive reviewed all available communication between H and RSA. I can see RSA has 
asked H for several pieces of information in order to validate the claim (such as lease 
agreements and Hs accounts). But Ive not seen anything that persuades me what 
RSA asked for to validate the claim is unreasonable, or that it has treated H 
differently.
However, I can see there have been issues with the way RSA has communicated to 
H and its representatives. This includes a lack of clear updates on the claim, slow 
responses to Hs requests, asking for information it already had and not explaining 
why it required the information it did.  
Its not unusual for claims of this nature to take some time to be resolved. So theres 
always an element of inconvenience.  I wont be holding RSA responsible for delays I 
believe were reasonably unavoidable. And as Ive set out above, I dont think the 
information RSA asked for in order to validate the claim is unreasonable.
But I do think RSA couldve been more urgent in progressing matters. Its 
understandable H wanted to get things resolved as quickly as possible, and had RSA 
provided clearer detail in its communications, it would have provided greater 
assurance the claim was progressing. And I think it delayed things further when RSA 
requested information it already had. 
So, considering everything Ive set out above, Im not persuaded the claim was 
progressed by RSA as timely as it couldve been. For these reasons, I agree with the 
investigators recommendation RSA should pay H £300 compensation.
I note Hs comments regarding why they feel £300 is not sufficient. But as Ive set out 
above, I can only consider events up to September 2021 in my decision. The role of 
this service isnt to make punitive awards, and while I understand H feels very 
strongly about what has happened, Im satisfied the compensation is fair and 
reasonable in recognising the inconvenience caused by RSA. 
So, for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that uphold Hs complaint.
To put things right, I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay H £300 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman