DRN-2795633
The complaint
Mrs C complains because Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) hasnt refunded the 
premium she paid for a single trip travel insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mrs C took out a single trip travel insurance policy with Great Lakes on 10 February 2020. 
She paid £177.56 which also covered her for some medical conditions shed declared.
A family holiday was booked by Mrs Cs grandson which was due to start on 25 May 2020 
until 2 June 2020. Due to Covid-19, the travel provider cancelled the flight and 
accommodation and Mrs C received a full refund for this. 
Because the holiday had been cancelled, Mrs C wanted a full refund of the premium shed 
paid on the travel insurance policy. She contacted Great Lakes on 3 April 2020 to arrange 
this. It cancelled the policy and explained to Mrs C that she wasnt entitled to receive a 
refund of the premium. But it offered Mrs C a transferrable voucher value of £88.89 to use 
towards a future policy which was valid for 36 months. The voucher was calculated from 
3 April 2020 when the policy had been cancelled.
Mrs C was unhappy with the voucher. She said she doesnt intend to travel due to her age 
and therefore wanted a cash refund of the premium.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. Initially the refund was calculated from 
3 April 2020 (when the policy was cancelled) but since then, the investigator received 
confirmation that the holiday was cancelled on 27 March 2020. So Great Lakes amended the 
refund voucher to be calculated from 27 March 200  the amended amount was £100.60. 
Our investigator said she was satisfied that Great Lakes had offered Mrs C a fair refund 
even though there was no requirement for her to be given one. Mrs C didnt agree and asked 
for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. She said while its not impossible for her 
to travel, she has a back problem and that will affect her future travel. So she would rather 
have a cash refund as she doesnt want to travel because of her back problem and also her 
age. 
The complaint has now been passed to me. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mrs C held have a cooling off period of 14 days 
for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is called the 
right to cancel.
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk).
 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says: 
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mrs C didnt cancel her travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under industry rules, 
even if Mrs C had cancelled the policy within 14 days, she wouldnt be entitled to a full 
refund of the premium paid. This is because Great Lakes covered the risk of her cancelling 
the upcoming trip for reasons that were covered under the policy during that time.
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Mrs Cs insurance policy with Great Lakes outline her 
cancellation rights under the contract. These say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt 
of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund the premium you have 
paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to 
make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no 
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as a bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us 
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Mrs Cs cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to her than is 
required by industry rules. But Mrs Cs policy was purchased on 10 February 2020 and 
cancelled on 3 April 2020. This was more than 14 days after she bought the policy. 
The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a 
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional 
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the 
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical 
conditions. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider the Covid-19 global pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I dont think this type of 
situation, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term 
relating to discretion is intended to cover. 
This means I dont think Mrs C is entitled to any refund of premiums under the terms and 
conditions of the contract with Great Lakes.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
I understand Mrs Cs planned trip  and therefore the need for this single trip insurance 
policy  changed due to circumstances outside of her control. So, Ive thought about whether 
it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and the 
terms and conditions of Mrs Cs contract because of the exceptional and extraordinary 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. 
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mrs Cs contract with Great Lakes to be 
performed  cover under the policy started on 10 February 2020. 
Mrs C wasnt just insured for the dates of travel. The price set by Great Lakes also covered 
Mrs C for cancellation cover from 10 February 2020. So, the premium Mrs C paid covered 
the risk of her having to cancel her holiday due to any of a number of listed events insured 
under the policy including, for example, Mrs C falling ill with a declared pre-existing medical 
condition. 
Great Lakes was covering the risk of Mrs C making a successful claim on the policy from 
10 February 2020 and her holiday was cancelled on 27 March 2020. Its a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what Mrs Cs 
cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain any premiums relating to the 
risk it covered during that time. 
However, after 27 March 2020 due to Covid-19, Great Lakes didnt bear any risk under 
Mrs Cs insurance policy. The holiday had already been cancelled due to Covid-19 and 
Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim in relation to this. Great Lakes was therefore no longer 
carrying the risk of the holiday being cancelled for any other insured reason. And, as the 
holiday was no longer going ahead, Great Lakes was also no longer carrying the risk of any 
claim being made while Mrs C was travelling abroad. 
Based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 
pandemic, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mrs C with a 
pro-rata refund of the premium she paid for her single trip travel insurance policy from 
27 March 2020. 
How the refund should be paid 
In considering whether I think Great Lakes should make a pro-rata refund of Mrs Cs 
premiums by way of a voucher or by way of a monetary refund, Ive thought about what 
would be fair and reasonable to both parties. While I understand Mrs Cs reasons for doing so, it was her decision to cancel the insurance 
policy. Mrs C entered into a contract with Great Lakes, paying a premium in return for 
Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring under the policy. Paying a 
refund by way of a voucher means the risk Great Lakes agreed to accept is moved to a 
future date.
Overall, I dont think I can fairly say Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund to 
Mrs C. I think a voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations attached to that voucher 
being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances.
 
The voucher which Great Lakes has offered is valid for 36 months and is fully transferrable, 
so it can be used by either Mrs C or by a third party. The voucher can be used to buy a 
future travel insurance policy  either annual or single trip.
I understand why Mrs C may not wish to use a voucher because she says she doesnt intend 
to travel due to her age and her back problem. And I can see we asked Mrs C to provide 
medical information, but she was unable to do this. However, I dont think the terms of 
Great Lakes voucher are unreasonably restrictive, so I think the voucher of £100.60 offered 
is a fair offer in the circumstances.
The calculation of the voucher 
Great Lakes doesnt break the premium for this policy down into pre-travel cancellation and 
post-departure cover. Instead, the premium charged is split equally across the whole period 
of cover. 
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking 
into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood 
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly. 
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating 
the premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the 
incidence of risk across the life of its single trip travel insurance policies. And Im satisfied 
that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mrs C unfairly or any differently to other customers in similar 
circumstances. 
The voucher value has been calculated based on Mrs Cs unused period of standard travel 
insurance cover. 
The premium Mrs C paid for this policy was for a period of approximately 114 days from 
10 February 2020 to 2 June 2020. 
The value of the voucher which Great Lakes has offered to Mrs C equates to the premiums 
equivalent to 68 unused days of cover from 27 March 2020 until the planned end date of the 
trip on 2 June 2020. 
But Great Lakes wasnt covering any further risk under the policy from the date the holiday 
was cancelled. So, I think Great Lakes should calculate the value of Mrs Cs voucher from 
27 March 2020.
Putting things right
Overall, I think the value of the voucher offered by Great Lakes of £100.60 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, so I wont be asking Great Lakes to do anything further.My final decision
Im upholding this complaint in part. For the reasons given above, Im satisfied that the 
refund voucher offered by Great Lakes Insurance SE for the amount of £100.60 is fair and 
reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman