DRN-1212489
 
Complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a Total Mortgage Protection 
Plan (TMPP) policy.
Background
Mr W took out a mortgage with BoS in 2001. He was sold the TMPP at the same time in 
connection with this mortgage. The TMPP sold to Mr W consisted of payment protection 
insurance (PPI) as well as life and critical illness cover (CIC). The PPI would have provided 
a monthly benefit for up to 24 months per claim if Mr W was off work sick or lost his job. The 
life cover and CIC were designed to pay off the mortgage in the unfortunate event of Mr Ws 
death or critical illness.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld in respect of the PPI element 
of the TMPP cover. However, he thought that the life cover and CIC  under the policy was 
not suitable for Mr W as it was a level term assurance  policy rather than decreasing term 
assurance policy. So even though Mr Ws mortgage balance would have decreased, the 
amount of life cover and CIC wouldnt have which meant Mr W was paying for extra cover. 
So our adjudicator thought that the life and CIC element of the policy was mis-sold and 
asked BoS to pay Mr W back the difference between a level term assurance policy and a 
decreasing term assurance policy. BoS agreed to do this. However, Mr W still feels that he 
was mis-sold the entire TMPP policy and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint about the PPI element of the 
cover but agree with the adjudicators conclusions as to why the Life and CIC cover should 
be partially upheld. For the sake of clarity I have dealt with these elements of the policy 
separately below under the headings of PPI and Life and Critical Illness Cover.
PPI
First of all Ive considered whether Mr W was eligible under the policy. Given Mr Ws age, 
employment and residence, Im satisfied he was eligible for the policy at the time of the sale.
BoS had to make it clear to Mr W that the PPI was optional and needed his consent before it 
could be applied to Mr Ws account. Mr W says that he was pressured into taking the policy 
out and that he was told that without PPI he wouldnt get the mortgage. BoS disagree.I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. And given the length of time since the 
sale, BoS no longer have all of the documents from the time of the sale. So Ive thought 
about what Mr W has told us and considered the documents which have been provided 
along with what we have been previously been provided with for sales relating to these 
policies. 
I note that the mortgage application itself had a section about PPI and Mr W signed this 
section to show his interest in the policy. Ive also seen various documents that would have 
been provided to Mr W which show that PPI would have been discussed with him and that 
he chose to take the cover out. I havent seen anything in these documents which would 
show that PPI was presented as compulsory.
So all in all, while I appreciate what Mr W has told us, I havent seen sufficient evidence to 
conclude that BoS didnt present the policy as optional or that it was added to Mr Ws 
account without his consent.
BoS accept they advised Mr W to take PPI. This means they had to check it was suitable for 
Mr W. I dont know if BoS took all the steps they should have to check if the PPI was suitable 
for Mr W but I do think the policy was suitable for Mr W. I say this because:
 
Mr W has told us about his generous sick pay entitlement. However, the policy would 
have paid out in addition to this and for a much longer period of time (24 months). It 
would also have paid out in the same way if Mr W lost his job. I appreciate what Mr 
W says about savings. However, these could have been used for essential living 
expenses while the PPI took care of the mortgage repayments. This would have 
been particularly useful when Mr Ms employee sick pay ended.
 
Mr W has explained that he could have relied on his family for support. However, this 
wouldnt have made the policy unsuitable for Mr W because this support couldnt be 
guaranteed.
 
Mr W doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy. 
 
I havent seen any evidence which suggests the PPI was unaffordable for Mr W at 
the time of the sale. The PPI was reasonably priced and provided a valuable benefit 
in comparison to its cost.
 
Mr W could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially if he no 
longer wanted or needed it.
 
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable for Mr W, BoS also had to give him clear 
information about the PPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions in the 
policy  so that he could make an informed decision about whether or not to take it out.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr W wasnt as clear as it should have been but this 
in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better information would have put him off taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say this for 
the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for him.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr W the PPI part 
of the TMPP policy.
Life and Critical Illness Cover
Mr Ws mortgage was a repayment mortgage. This means that his balance would have 
reduced in line with the monthly payments he was making. However, the life and CIC policy 
recommended  to Mr W did not take this into account as it was a level term assurance policy. 
This means that it continued to provide the same amount of cover in the beginning of the 
mortgage as it would have done towards the end. Mr W would not have needed this level of 
cover when his mortgage balance reduced. And he had had to pay more for this type of 
cover. 
Had this been made clear to Mr W, I dont think hed have taken out the level term assurance 
Life and CIC cover BoS offered him.  However, I think Mr W had a need for a decreasing 
term assurance policy. This would have reduced the amount of cover in accordance with the 
reduction in the mortgage balance and would have cost Mr W less.  And I agree with the 
adjudicator that BoS should compensate Mr W by paying the difference in cost between the 
policies and adding the interest due as set out below.
I understand Mr W questioned the amount of compensation due. However, to be clear, the 
amount of compensation is not calculated based on the £35 or so a month Mr W was paying 
for the TMPP as a whole, but only for the Life and CIC element of the policy and even then 
only the difference between the cost of a level term assurance policy and a decreasing term 
assurance policy which equates to around 50p per month.
Fair compensation
 
1. BoS should refund Mr W the difference between the premiums he paid for his level 
term assurance policy and those he wouldve paid if hed had a decreasing term 
assurance policy instead. 
 
2. Interest should be added to each amount and calculated at 8% simple per annum 
from the date that each premium was paid to the date of settlement. 
 
3. If the policy is still running Bank of Scotland (if it can) should reconstruct the policy as 
if it had been set up as a decreasing term assurance when he first took it out  
making sure its based on the cost at that time.
 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint against Bank of Scotland plc in relation to the Life and Critical 
Illness cover only under the TMPP policy and require Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mr W the 
compensation as set out above if they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2020.Navneet Sher
Ombudsman