DRN-3857619
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about the way Landmark Mortgages Limited administered their 
mortgage account. Theyre also unhappy with the level of customer service theyve received.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R have a mortgage account with Landmark. Mr R complained in late 2020 when 
he received his mortgage statement which said, in January 2021, the contractual monthly 
payment (CMP) would be increasing from £199.43 to £217.59. 
Landmark investigated Mr Rs concerns and issued their final response at the end of 
December 2020. In this they explained a review of Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage account is 
carried out each year on 30 November. As Mr and Mrs Rs November payment hadnt been 
received on time, the overall balance was larger than expected for Landmarks system. 
Therefore, it calculated a higher CMP to ensure the remaining mortgage balance was repaid 
on time. 
Mr R remained unhappy and said he wouldnt be paying the higher CMP. He also explained 
that Landmark should have been aware that he makes his payments a few days late each 
month due to when he receives his benefits. Landmark explained to Mr R that their position 
remained the same. They also explained that when this happened in previous years, they 
had recalculated Mr and Mrs Rs CMP as a gesture of goodwill. However, they didnt think it 
was fair or reasonable to do so because the mortgage was due to end in January 2022. So, 
Landmark needed to ensure there wouldnt be an outstanding balance by that date.
Landmarks responses didnt satisfy Mr R and he continued to pay the lower CMP. He also 
continued to raise complaints about the revised CMP. This resulted in Landmark sending 
another final response in March 2021, and they explained the account was in arrears. But 
two days later Landmark wrote to Mr and Mrs R saying theyd made a mistake, and that their 
mortgage account was in advance.
Over the coming months, Mr R continued to complain about the CMP recalculations, and 
continued to pay the lower CMP. But in May 2021, Mr R asked Landmark to remove any 
credit from his mortgage account and recalculate his CMP. Landmark agreed to do this and 
gave Mr R a figure of £216.90. They then realised this was incorrect and explained the 
correct CMP would be £198.46. However, despite receiving the recalculated CMP, Mr and 
Mrs R continued to pay £199.43 towards their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy with the overall administration of their mortgage and the 
customer service provided by Landmark. So, they raised several more complaints. They also 
made a subject access request. But after this took longer than anticipated to be completed, 
and Mr R was unhappy with the documentation provided, he raised further complaints.
In December 2021, Landmark wrote to Mr and Mrs R explaining they would be writing off the 
remaining balance from the mortgage and closing the mortgage account. This was to 
apologise for sending a mortgage statement with incorrect calculations the previous month.
Mr and Mrs R didnt make any further payments towards the outstanding balance. However, 
they refused to allow Landmark to close the account until our Service had completed its 
investigation. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Rs complaint in March 2021. He didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld as he thought Landmark had calculated the CMP correctly. Mr R 
disagreed and asked for a final decision. 
As detailed above, Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy with Landmark. So, while waiting for a 
final decision, they raised several more complaints. This means their complaint had evolved 
significantly.
Mr R said he wanted us to look into the additional complaint points, and Landmark agreed to 
us doing so under this case reference. As there were new points that hadnt previously been 
addressed, I was required to set out my findings in a provisional decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 3 November 2022. I explained there were occasions 
when Landmark had incorrectly calculated Mr and Mrs Rs outstanding balance and CMPs. 
I was also minded to say Landmark hadnt provided the level of customer service Id expect. 
But overall, I was satisfied Landmarks offers were fair when considering how to put things 
right.
Mr and Mrs R and Landmark had until 8 December 2022 to provide any additional comments 
or points for me to consider. Landmark accepted my provisional decision, but Mr and Mrs R 
disagreed because they felt:
Id misunderstood the heart of their complaint.
I should have commented on the previous final decision issued in 2017.
My provisional decision didnt comment on everything that had happened.
Landmark hadnt stuck to a legally binding agreement about their CMP.
Landmark still hasnt explained what went wrong and why.
They cant be confident Landmark wont try and pursue them for an outstanding 
balance in the future as theyve made numerous mistakes when calculating their 
outstanding balance.
Theyve not received all the information theyve requested.
Theres been no improvement in the customer service provided by Landmark despite 
our previous involvement.
Landmarks goodwill gestures are just an attempt to rectify mistakes theyve made 
over the last five years  and he finds their offers insulting.
Ive considered all the points raised by Mr and Mrs R, alongside the evidence we already 
had on file. Having done so, my decision remains the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. I know the award 
isnt what they hoped for, but Ill explain my reasoning below.Mr and Mrs Rs complaint is made up of multiple issues and its clear they feel very strongly 
about whats happened. While Im not obligated to comment on every point and/or concern, 
Im sorry that my provisional decision made them think Id missed or not considered 
everything thats happened. Id like to assure them that Ive considered everything. However, 
given the events span a number of years it isnt practical for me to comment on everything 
that happened during that period of time. So, my decision will comment on the events 
I consider to be key in explaining the reasoning for my final decision.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs R disagree with what I consider to be the heart of their complaint. 
However, after considering the points they raised, I believe thats due to a difference of 
opinion on the way the evidence should be interpreted. For that reason, Im still separating 
this complaint into three broad headings, and will address the concerns accordingly. 
Were Landmarks calculations correct?
When Mr and Mrs R first contacted us under this reference, they were unhappy Landmark 
had increased their CMP from £199.43 to £217.59. They were further frustrated by 
Landmarks decision to do this because theyd made several complaints about this in 
previous years.
Landmark has explained Mr and Mrs Rs CMP increased following their annual review 
process. This took place on 30 November 2020 and included the CMP that was due to be 
paid by Mr and Mrs R that month.
Mr and Mrs Rs CMPs are due at the end of each month. However, they receive their 
benefits shortly after this, meaning they make their payments a few days late  so their 
payments go through in the following month. As Mr and Mrs R hadnt made their November 
CMP by the time the annual review took place, their outstanding balance appeared to be 
higher than anticipated. Therefore, Landmarks system recalculated the CMP based on this 
higher outstanding balance.
I consider this explanation given by Landmark is reasonable. And having reviewed the 
payments made towards Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage, Ive not seen anything that persuades 
me the explanation given for the November 2020 recalculation of their CMP was 
unreasonable. I appreciate Mr and Mrs R always intended to make their November 2020 
payment. However, the review calculated the correct CMP based on the transactions on the 
account at that time.
Mr R has said our Service previously told Landmark they had calculated their CMP 
incorrectly. And that appears to be part of the reason he feels so strongly about this matter. 
Despite Mr and Mrs R wanting me to, I cant comment on the outcome of a previous 
complaint investigated by our Service. However, I am able to see what was said to get a 
better understanding of the circumstances Ive been asked to investigate. Having done so, 
Ive not seen evidence of a previous complaint in which our Service said Landmark had 
calculated Mr and Mrs Rs CMP incorrectly. Ive only seen a previous final decision from 
2017 that explained Landmarks explanation for the recalculated CMP was reasonable.
It seems that in previous years Landmark has lowered the CMP as a gesture of goodwill, 
following a complaint from Mr and Mrs R.
Landmark didnt initially agree to lower the recalculated CMP as Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage 
term was due to end in January 2022. Thats because Landmark wanted to ensure there 
wouldnt be an outstanding balance by this date.I would expect a mortgage provider, like Landmark, to take the necessary steps to avoid 
problems at the end of a mortgage term. So, I consider their initial decision to keep the 
£217.59 CMP in place, to have been reasonable at the time. However, I was pleased to see 
that they showed pragmatism in May 2021 when they agreed to recalculate the CMP when 
Mr and Mrs Ms account was in advance.
There were occasions when Landmark made mistakes with calculations. This was 
disappointing to see given they had dealt with multiple complaints from Mr R about the 
mortgage balance and CMPs in the past. They were also aware that their relationship with 
Mr and Mrs R was already strained. So, any mistake would cast further doubt over 
Landmarks credibility.
The evidence from both parties showed that in March 2021, Landmarks final response 
incorrectly said Mr and Mrs Rs account had arrears of just over £50. While this mistake was 
disappointing, Landmark wrote to Mr and Mrs R, two days later correcting their mistake. 
Landmark explained the account was in advance by just over £160 and offered Mr and 
Mrs R £50 as an apology for the confusion caused. Given this mistake was corrected 
quickly, I consider their £50 offer was fair in the circumstances.
While it was positive Landmark agreed to recalculate Mr and Mrs Rs CMP in May 2021, 
they disappointingly made a mistake when doing so. However, they wrote to Mr and Mrs R 
around a week later with the correct CMP. The two letters understandably caused confusion, 
and this resulted in Mr R raising a complaint. I was glad to see Landmark acknowledged the 
impact of their mistake and offered Mr and Mrs R £50 in recognition of the impact this had on 
them. 
In November 2021, the interest rate on Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage was due to decrease. 
Landmark sent them a statement, however it contained mistakes. Mistakes were also in a 
redemption statement sent to Mr and Mrs R in early December 2021. So, Mr R flagged these 
with Landmark.
Landmark wrote to Mr and Mrs R a few days later and apologised for their mistakes. To put 
things right, Landmark said they would write off the remaining balance on the mortgage (of 
just over £200) and close the mortgage account.
Given the concerns Mr and Mrs R had raised over the years, I dont consider it was fair or 
reasonable for Landmark to make such errors  particularly so close to the end of the 
mortgage term. So, I can understand how these mistakes made it difficult for Mr and Mrs R 
to trust Landmark again. Having said that, the outstanding balance Landmark has written off 
is in the region of the compensation I would have awarded for the impact of the mistakes 
had on Mr and Mrs R. So, I dont consider Landmark needs to do anything further to put 
things right regarding these issues.
In light of the above, I consider Landmarks explanation for the recalculation of Mr and 
Mrs Rs CMP in November 2020 was reasonable. I also dont consider they acted 
unreasonably by refusing to lower the CMP (at that time). 
However, Landmark have made several mistakes with calculations of arrears, CMPs, and 
redemption figures. This further impacted the confidence Mr and Mrs R had in Landmarks 
ability to give them accurate information. However, Im satisfied Landmark has taken 
sufficient steps to recognise how their mistakes affected Mr and Mrs R, so I wont be asking 
them to do anything further regarding this point. Ive noted Mr and Mrs Rs concerns about Landmark potentially trying to pursue them for an 
outstanding balance in the future. And given the numerous mistakes Landmark made in 
communicating what was owed, I can understand why Mr and Mrs R feel that way. However, 
I can only make a finding on what has happened. 
But to put their minds at ease, its worthwhile explaining that once Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage 
account is closed, it would be highly unusual for Landmark to say further monies are owed at 
some point in the future. And given that Landmark has offered to write-off any remaining 
balance, it would make the possibility of that happening even more unusual  and would only 
add to the frustrations Mr and Mrs R have already expressed. But if for some reason 
something like that happened in the future, that would be a new complaint.    
Landmarks handling of Mr and Mrs Rs subject access request
Mr and Mrs R complain Landmark failed to provide all relevant documents when they made 
a subject access request, and about the way the documents were sent to them.
Our Service doesnt have the power to decide whether Landmark has breached GDPR. 
However, we can comment on whether Mr and Mrs R were treated fairly when Landmark 
dealt with their subject access request.
Mr R made a subject access request in early July 2021, and Landmark completed this just 
over one month later. This means the documents were sent to Mr R a little later than he had 
anticipated. This caused him understandable frustration, but Ive been glad to see Landmark 
acknowledged this in their 7 September 2021 final response.
Mr R has also complained that some documents were missing, there were blank pages, the 
documents werent in chronological order, and that he was sent multiple copies of the same 
document.
I appreciate the format in which Mr R received the information may not have been ideal. But 
given the fact his mortgage has been in place since 2006, I dont consider its unreasonable 
that Landmark no longer holds some of the information it may have held some time ago. 
I also think the volume of information Landmark holds means that its not always possible to 
put all documents in chronological order or remove all blank pages. I say this after having 
reviewed the large volumes of information both parties have sent this Service for this 
complaint. 
Landmark agreed to review Mr Rs subject access request again to see if any additional 
documents could be located. They also said they would try their best to send the information 
in as close a chronological order as possible. I consider this demonstrated Landmark took 
Mr Rs concerns seriously and wanted to ensure he had the information hed requested.
Mr R had also complained that there were derogatory comments about him in some of the 
documents he received. Im sorry to hear that Mr R was offended by the information he 
received. But having reviewed letters, contact notes, emails etc dating back to 2006, I cant 
say that Ive seen any derogatory comments made about Mr or Mrs R.
Landmark ought to have completed the subject access request sooner. However, I am 
satisfied they took steps to ensure they handled it properly. I was also pleased to see their 
7 September 2021 final response offered Mr R £100 for any trouble or upset they may have 
caused. Because of this, I dont consider Landmark needs to do anything further regarding 
this complaint point.
Customer serviceMr and Mrs R have complained about multiple instances of Landmarks customer service 
falling short. I wont be addressing every instance, because as Ive mentioned above, it 
wouldnt be pragmatic to do so. But I want to assure both parties that I have reviewed and 
considered everything.
Having reviewed correspondence between Mr R and Landmark, and his testimony to our 
Service, its clear the relationship between them has completely broken down. Mr R feels 
very strongly about the way Landmark has administered his mortgage account  in particular 
the way they calculated the CMPs.
While I appreciate Mr Rs strength of feeling, I do consider the way he communicated his 
frustrations played a part in the level of customer service he received. The contact notes 
provided by him and Landmark show that he would make multiple calls and complaints 
about the same points despite having received a response on the matter. There was also a 
consistent theme in many of the call notes. And that was about Mr Rs tone, language used, 
and him not allowing Landmarks advisers to speak. The call notes and various final 
response letters have explained Landmark doesnt condone customers using offensive 
language, or not allowing their advisers to speak. I dont consider thats unreasonable as 
they have a duty of care towards their staff. Given the above, I am persuaded Mr Rs 
actions, and failure to allow Landmark the time and space to adequately investigate his 
concerns, played a role in the way Landmark were able to progress things for him and 
Mrs R.
While I am satisfied Landmark did try and answer Mr Rs queries and provide clear 
explanations, I cannot say they are totally without blame. 
Landmark have been aware (for some time now) about Mr Rs feelings on the way CMPs are 
calculated. They were also fully aware that when Mr R is frustrated, he isnt always able to 
articulate his thoughts as he needs to. This makes it difficult for both parties to end 
conversations in a manner that means theyre both clear on the next steps. It was for that 
very reason the ombudsman who investigated Mr and Mrs Rs previous complaint, said 
Landmark should have a single point of contact for Mr R.
The evidence provided shows a point of contact was put in place in July 2017. However, the 
contact notes from 2020 onwards show that Mr R has spoken to various advisers each time 
hes contacted Landmark. So, its been very disappointing to see more wasnt done to 
ensure Mr R only communicated with one person at Landmark, and in turn have a smoother 
customer journey. 
Im not wholly persuaded a single point of contact would have prevented this complaint from 
arising; as ultimately Mr R wanted Landmark to do something they werent obligated to do. 
However, I do think a single point of contact may have avoided the instances of Mr and 
Mrs R being given conflicting and/or incorrect information (on multiple occasions) about 
receiving call backs, any arrears, their outstanding balances, and their recalculated CMP. 
And Landmarks failure to ensure a single point of contact remained in place is one of the 
reasons why Mr and Mrs R feel the level of customer service theyve received hasnt 
improved  despite their previous complaints, and I dont consider those feelings to be 
wholly unreasonable in the circumstances.
Given Mr and Mrs Rs relationship with Landmark has been strained for over five years, the 
mistakes detailed above only made them lose further trust. Its now got to a point where that 
trust cannot be restored. Because of this, its important to draw a line under everything  
particularly now the mortgage term has come to an end.Putting things right
Mr R has previously asked to be compensated £400 per call hes made to Landmark. 
However, I dont consider that would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances. 
Raising a complaint comes with inevitable inconvenience, and that isnt something we make 
awards for. In addition to this, I dont consider the volume of calls Mr R made to Landmark 
(over the period this complaint covers) was reasonable, especially when Landmark had been 
consistent in explaining why the CMP had increased. This is in addition to the fact Mr R has 
raised similar complaints over the last five years or so, and both Landmark and our Service 
previously explained the reason for the recalculations were reasonable. We expect 
consumers to take steps to mitigate their losses, and Im not persuaded Mr R took sufficient 
steps to do that when Ive considered him complaining about the same point on multiple 
occasions.
Landmarks 7 September 2022 final response acknowledged Mr and Mrs R hadnt received 
the level of service theyd normally provide. To acknowledge their mistakes, Landmark 
offered them £350. Landmark also reiterated that they had written off the final £207.23 from 
the mortgage. This is in addition to awards offered in previous final responses from 
December 2020 onwards that totalled £200.
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied Landmarks offers (that have a combined 
total of £757.23) is within the region of what I would have awarded had they not already 
acknowledged their mistakes. Because of this, I wont be asking Landmark to increase their 
offer.
For clarity, Landmark Mortgages Limited has already offered to:
Write off the remaining balance of £207.23 on Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage account.
Close Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage account.
Pay Mr and Mrs R distress and inconvenience awards totalling £550.
Im aware Mr and Mrs R feel Landmark only made these offers to rectify their mistakes. 
However, when a financial business makes a mistake, we would expect them to take steps 
to rectify them. So, I cant agree Landmark did the wrong thing by attempting to do so. 
When putting things right, it isnt always appropriate for the financial business to do exactly 
what a customer has asked for. I should also add that our Service doesnt have the power to 
punish businesses. Given this, while Ive taken on board how Mr and Mrs R feel, I still 
consider Landmarks offer to be fair in all the circumstances. So, this is what Landmark 
should do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about Landmark Mortgages 
Limited.
To put things right, Landmark Mortgages Limited should do what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman