DRN-4343935
The complaint
Mr W complains about the decision by Astrenska Insurance Limited to turn down his travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr W holds an annual travel insurance policy with Astrenska. He was due to travel abroad 
on 23 October, but decided not to do so as his daughter was unwell. He made a claim for the 
costs he incurred in cancelling the trip. 
Astrenska turned down the claim, as it said Mr W hadnt shown that the cancellation had 
been medically necessary. Though it paid him £30 compensation for wrong information 
given to him during a phone call. 
Unhappy with this, Mr W brought a complaint to this Service. He also said hed been misled 
by Astrenska during a phone call, and thought if he hadnt been given the wrong information, 
he could have made a successful claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Astrenskas claims 
decision had been reasonable. Although Astrenska had wrongly told Mr W that a medical 
form wouldnt be needed, she noted this was after Mr W had already cancelled his trip. Our 
investigator thought the £30 compensation Astrenska had paid by way of an apology for this 
was reasonable. 
Mr W didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers:
1. The death, injury, or illness of:

b. An immediate relative
The policy says it doesnt cover:
1. Claims for illness or injury where a medical certificate has not been obtained from a 
medical practitioner confirming it was medically necessary to cancel the trip.
Mr W explains that his daughter began to feel unwell with a fever around three days before 
his flight, and he thought she had a nasty cold. Then on the day he was due to travel, his 
daughters symptoms became worse, and she also had headaches as well as a fever. He 
was concerned about her symptoms because of an illness she had several years earlier.
Whilst I can appreciate why Mr W decided not to travel, the policy terms are clear that as the 
trip was cancelled due to illness, he would need to provide supporting medical evidence that 
the cancellation was medically necessary. As our investigator has explained, this is a very 
common requirement for travel insurance policies where a cancellation claim has been made 
for illness. 
Mr W has provided a letter from his own GP dated 3 November which said that he had to 
cancel his plans as his daughter was unwell. However, Mr Ws daughter didnt seek medical 
advice before he made the decision to cancel the trip, so theres no evidence to support that 
the cancellation was medically necessary.
Mr W says he spoke with Astrenska on 28 October, and had been given the wrong 
information by its agent. He says if he had been advised correctly that a medical report 
would be needed, then he could have obtained this. 
Ive listened to this call. Mr W explained that he couldnt travel five days earlier because of 
his daughters illness. He said the airline had given him a travel voucher, but he would need 
to claim for accommodation. The agent explained that Astrenska would need medical 
confirmation from Mr Ws daughters treating doctor advising of her illness. 
Mr W said his daughter had a nasty cold and he hadnt taken her to the GP. He said if he 
asked the GP for a report, hed be asking for a medical certificate for a previous illness, and 
he didnt think theyd do that as she had recovered. The agent said that this would be 
needed for a cancellation claim to be considered, otherwise the claim would be denied. The 
agent offered to go ahead and register the claim, which Mr W agreed to. The agent then told 
Mr W that a form would need to be completed by the GP, but then said that wouldnt be 
necessary as Mr Ws daughter wasnt covered under the policy.
Astrenska accepts that it gave Mr W the wrong information in the call. Although the agent 
correctly said initially that medical confirmation would be needed from the treating GP, the 
agent later said that the form wouldnt need to be completed, which wasnt correct. 
Astrenska paid Mr W £30 compensation by way of apology for the confusion caused. I think 
that was reasonable, as I cant see that the wrong information made any difference to the 
claim. 
Although Mr W says that he could have obtained a medical report if it had been made clear 
to him on 28 October that this was needed, this conversation took place five days after Mr W 
had been due to travel and his daughter had apparently nearly recovered. Therefore, even if 
Mr Ws daughter had seen a GP at this time, they wouldnt have been able to comment on 
whether it had been medically necessary for Mr W not to travel five days earlier.
I therefore find that Astrenskas decision not to pay the claim was reasonable.
Mr W says he had to pay for his own GP report. This wasnt requested in the call, and I cant 
see that this was requested in any of the correspondence sent to Mr W, so it isnt clear why 
Mr W went to his own GP for a report. I note that later correspondence sent to Mr W from 
Astrenska said that a medical certificate would be needed by his relatives GP in relation to 
the condition which gave rise to the claim, and that if this incurred a cost it wouldnt be 
covered by Astrenska. I therefore dont find that Astrenska should reimburse Mr W for the 
amount he paid to obtain a GP report.
Mr W is also unhappy that he had to go through the time and effort of making a claim that 
had no chance of being approved. However, Mr W chose to go ahead and register the claim 
knowing that he would need medical evidence to support that it was necessary for him to cancel his trip, and the claim would be turned down without this (despite the later confusion 
about the form at the end of the call). That was of course up to Mr W. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman