DRN-2225166
The complaint
Mr K says Western Circle Ltd trading a Cashfloat (Cashfloat), irresponsibly lent to him.     
Mr K says he was allowed to take out too many loans and the amounts he borrowed were 
increasing. 
What happened
This complaint is about four short-term loans Cashfloat provided to Mr K between December 
2017 and July 2018. Mr Ks borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 02/12/2017 12/12/2017 2 £200.00 £134.87
2 19/12/2017 03/01/2018 3 £400.00 £212.27
3 04/04/2018 05/07/2018 4 £600.00 £236.56
4 06/07/2018 09/03/2020 4 £800.00 £313.00
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ks complaint and didnt think any of the loans should have been 
given. They thought that as Cashfloats own credit checks showed that Mr K had other short-
term lending, had a high number of recent searches and the amount of cash advances it 
suggested it was unlikely Mr K would be able to sustainably repay loan one and onwards.
Cashfloat disagreed with the adjudicator. Amongst other points it made it said that it was not 
required to carry out a credit search at the beginning of a lending relationship, but it went 
beyond the basic requirements and did so. The purpose of the credit check was to verify 
whether Mr K had any adverse credit markers that would indicate he wasnt a good credit 
risk. Cashfloat did not carry out a detailed review of Mr Ks outstanding balances as it wasnt 
required so early in the relationship. 
Cashfloats response did not change the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been 
passed to me for decision in my role as ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Cashfloat has said there was a break in the lending of three months between loan two being 
repaid and loan three being taken. But I dont think this was a sufficient amount of time for 
Cashfloat to have assumed that Mr K had overcome whatever the financial circumstances 
were that led him to take high-cost credit in the first instance. A break in a chain of lending, 
in effect, starts the clock ticking again on what we would consider to be proportionate 
checks a business should carry out when taking into account the length of the borrowing 
relationship with a customer. 
Cashfloat has told us about the creditworthiness and affordability checks it carried out before 
approving the borrowing. Those records confirm that Mr K was in full-time employment, 
earning a monthly net income of £2,000. His monthly living costs were £550. And Mr K was 
living with his parents. So, on the face of it, these figures would suggest that the lending was 
affordable for Mr K on a pounds and pence basis. 
But Cashfloat has given us copies of the credit reports it carried out before agreeing to any 
of the loans. And in response to the adjudicators comments that three short-term loans were 
taken on 14 March 2017 it pointed out that these were duplicate entries that related to the 
same loan. But the credit report still showed an additional three outstanding short-term loans and two open home credit loans. The report also showed a high number of searches in the 
previous three months  22 searches in total. 
Cashfloat has told us the purpose of its credit checks were to assess whether Mr K was a 
credit risk. It said it doesnt review the credit report in such detail at the beginning of a 
lending relationship. Its not obliged to do so, and its credit checks go further than it needs to. 
But looking at the overall summary on pages one and two of the (much longer) report I think 
there was sufficient information to indicate that Mr K may have been having problems 
managing his money which suggests that he wouldnt be able to sustainably make the loan 
repayments for loan one and all subsequent lending. I think Cashfloat should have taken 
note of the information given in the overall summary and further considered the credit report 
it already had to build up a bigger picture of Mr Ks financial circumstances. 
Cashfloat has pointed out that the first three loans were repaid earlier than the agreed terms 
which it says would demonstrate that Mr K was in the position to make discretionary 
payments. And while I accept that point, early repayment can equally suggest that someone 
is juggling their finances in order to make ends meet. 
And with the exception of the three months break between loan two being repaid and loan 
three being taken, the other loans were all taken within days of the previous loan being 
repaid. Also, the amounts borrowed consistently increased  from £200 at loan one to £800 
at loan four  so the monthly repayments also increased. The terms of the agreements also 
lengthened from two repayments at loan one to four repayments for loans three and four. 
This could all have been an indication of a worsening of Mr Ks financial position. And 
Cashfloat has told us it had to set up a repayment plan for loan four in order for that loan to 
be repaid so this seems likely. 
So overall, I think Cashfloat already had sufficient information in its possession to show that 
Mr K was having problems managing his money and would struggle to make the loan 
repayments for loan one and all subsequent lending. 
So Im upholding the complaint for all of the lending and Cashfloat should put things right.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr K paid on loans one to four;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans one to four from Mr Ks credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. Western Circle Ltd should put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Catherine LangleyOmbudsman