DRN-3265495
Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has refused to remove a 
default it recorded on his credit file after he complained it irresponsibly provided him with an 
overdraft and then increased the limit.
Background
NatWest had already agreed to write off the outstanding balance on Mr Gs overdraft prior to 
his complaint. Mr G didnt think this went far enough and wanted the default it recorded 
removed from his credit file. As NatWest refused to do this after his complaint, Mr G referred 
the matter to our service. Mr Gs complaint was then considered by one of our adjudicators. 
She thought that NatWest didnt need to remove the default from Mr Gs credit file. Mr G 
disagreed and so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that NatWest has acted unfairly. Ill explain 
why I think this is the case. I want to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or 
we decide) it did something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the 
position theyd be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a 
business to put a consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the 
credit they shouldnt have. But thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have 
been advanced were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business irresponsibly provided credit to a consumer, wed typically 
expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any interest 
and charges on that credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest 
and charges added to any irresponsibly provided credit.
 
And if those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. In this 
case, NatWest already wrote off an amount greater than the overdraft interest, fees and 
charges that it added to Mr Gs account before he even made his complaint. So on the face 
of things it looks like NatWest already did more than what I would expect a lender to do even 
if Mr Gs overdraft was provided irresponsibly.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr G believes that NatWest should do more. He thinks its unfair for NatWest to record 
negative information on his credit file. Ive carefully thought about what Mr G has said. Mr G 
says that NatWest should remove all negative information that it recorded on his credit file, 
including the default, because it should never have provided him with an overdraft in the first 
place. In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account that NatWest agreed to write Mr Gs 
outstanding balance off, which exceeds the overdraft interest, fees and charges paid.  
So removing any adverse information here would require NatWest to record that Mr Gs 
overdraft was settled in full and on time. And I think that it would be unfair to NatWest and     
Mr G, unreasonable its logic and inaccurate if I asked NatWest to amend Mr Gs credit file in 
this way  as that doesnt reflect what actually happened here. 
By asking NatWest to remove any adverse information here, Id be asking it to record 
inaccurate information and telling it to record that the overdraft was paid in full and on time. I 
think that this wholly inaccurate information would increase the chances of Mr G being able 
to access further funds  in circumstances where Mr Gs complaint, in the first place, has 
been that the information on his credit file should have stopped it from lending to him. 
Given just how strongly Mr G has relied upon the information already on his credit file in 
support of his complaint, I think that requiring NatWest to amend Mr Gs credit file in the way 
hes suggested would be counterproductive and arguably not in Mr Gs best interests, or 
those of any potential lender. So having carefully thought about everything, including 
everything Mr G has told us, Im not going to ask NatWest to amend Mr Gs credit file to 
remove any adverse information. This means that NatWest can and should record that the 
default as a result of this overdraft has been partially satisfied.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what NatWest already did prior to Mr Gs 
complaint is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to 
do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what National Westminster Bank Plc has 
already done is fair and reasonable. So Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman