DRN-2691335
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (Bank of Scotland) hasnt offered to 
compensate him more after he was the victim of fraud.
What happened
In early 2020, while Mr M was abroad, a fraudster gained access to his details and carried 
out over 100 transactions on his account between 3 January and 11 February 2020.
Some of these transactions were identified by Bank of Scotland as potentially fraudulent. Its 
records reflect it sent Mr M four text messages across approximately a two week period in 
January asking him to contact Bank of Scotland if the transactions that had prompted the 
contact werent carried out by him. 
Mr M said he received these messages as he was using ATMs abroad so assumed they 
were in relation to his own activity. Hes said he was unable to respond to them as his phone 
didnt work in his location.
After four months abroad Mr M arranged a flight home through a travel agent. They told him 
hed successfully purchased a flight, but Bank of Scotlands systems had in fact blocked the 
payment as it had concerns it was fraudulent. Mr M, believing hed booked a flight home 
travelled to the airport where he says he was informed he didnt have a valid ticket so he 
was unable to travel. 
Mr M has said he was unable to contact his bank to enquire about this so had no option 
other than to stay in a hotel for four or five days while he contacted family or a friend and 
asked them to arrange a flight home for him. 
When he returned to the UK Mr M visited his local branch. The fraudulent transactions were 
refunded to him within a few days but he made a complaint about Bank of Scotlands 
actions. He said it shouldve blocked his account completely when it didnt receive a 
response to the first fraud message it sent Mr M. If it had done this, Mr M wouldve been 
alerted to the fraud sooner and couldve resolved the matter before travelling to the airport 
and having to spend four or five days in a hotel waiting for a replacement flight. He felt Bank 
of Scotland should cover the cost of the hotel for this period, taxis to and from the airport and 
the cost of his return flight.
Bank of Scotland responded to Mr Ms complaint but didnt accept it should have to cover the 
costs he said he incurred. It said whilst it blocks individual transactions it thinks might be 
fraudulent, it doesnt always block a whole account if it doesnt hear back from a fraud alert. 
It also felt Mr M had some responsibility to check his account when he received the 
messages. 
Mr M brought the complaint to our service and our investigator didnt uphold it. They didnt 
feel Bank of Scotland was responsible for any additional costs as they felt Mr M couldve 
mitigated his circumstances by checking his account and contacting his bank sooner when 
he was alerted to a problem. Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings so the complaint 
has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Bank of Scotland fairly and reasonably ought to have had systems in place at the time 
that monitored its accounts and any payments made or received to counter various risks, 
including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud 
and scams. And I think its clear these were in place as several of the fraudulent transactions 
on Mr Ms account were identified and blocked by Bank of Scotland. But, it isnt Bank of 
Scotlands sole responsibility to monitor Mr Ms account, he also has some responsibility in 
doing this. 
Mr M received four text messages alerting him to potentially fraudulent activity on his 
account and it seems he chose not to contact his bank about this. He also doesnt seem to 
have checked his account in response to these alerts. Mr M has said he couldnt contact his 
bank because his location restricted or limited certain types of communication and because 
his phone wasnt set up to make outgoing calls or texts to the UK. Hes also said he doesnt 
use online banking. 
But this means Mr M appears to have chosen to travel for four months without any method of 
contacting his bank and without any way to check or monitor his account. And whilst this is a 
choice he was free to make, in doing this, Im satisfied Mr M was undertaking the risks that 
go along with this. Including the potential risks of transactions being made without his 
knowledge.
Mr M has said he didnt realise the text messages were alerting him to a problem with his 
account. And unfortunately records of the text messages are no longer available so I cant 
see exactly what they said. But I can see that numerous transactions on Mr Ms account 
were blocked due to fraud concerns. So I think its more likely than not they did inform him of 
this or at least mention there were concerns with his account. 
Mr M has said he thought they were in relation to activity he was carrying out. He says this is 
because the first text message happened to coincide with a large cash withdrawal he was 
making at an ATM. But hes also said that before he went away, he told staff in branch 
where he would be travelling and they said no activity he carried out while away would be 
blocked or cause issues. So its unclear why he assumed one withdrawal, part way through 
his trip wouldve flagged as suspicious. It also seems unlikely that every text message he 
received within a two week period was while he was making an ATM withdrawal.
Mr M has said Bank of Scotland should have blocked his account completely when the first 
text message went unanswered. Hes said if it had, it wouldve prompted him to contact it 
sooner. But when Mr M says he did learn there was a problem with his account at the 
airport, he didnt contact Bank of Scotland. Hes also said theres no way he couldve 
contacted it and always wouldve contacted a family member to assist him. Hes confirmed 
this family member doesnt have authority to speak to Bank of Scotland on his behalf, so 
their only option wouldve been to send Mr M money. So Im not persuaded he likely 
wouldve contacted Bank of Scotland sooner had it blocked his account.
Mr M has said Bank of Scotland was able to identify correctly which transactions were 
fraudulent when he complained in branch. So if it knew which ones were fraudulent from the 
outset, it shouldve blocked only these transactions to protect his money. But I agree. Bank of Scotland was ultimately able to identify which transactions were most likely fraud 
when some fraudulent activity had been confirmed by Mr M and when the matter was 
investigated in full. But I wouldnt expect Bank of Scotland to investigate every transaction to 
this level at all times and I think its reasonable for it to ask its customers to help identify 
genuine transactions on their account. As Ive mentioned, it isnt Bank of Scotlands sole 
responsibility to monitor its customers accounts. 
Overall I think Bank of Scotland did enough to let Mr M know about the suspected fraud on 
his account. If hed contacted it when he received any of the text messages Bank of 
Scotland sent him as I think he reasonably ought to have, or hed checked his balance or the 
transactions on his account, I think the matter likely wouldve been resolved and the money 
refunded within a few days as it was when Mr M ultimately did contact Bank of Scotland. 
As Bank of Scotland has acted as I wouldve expected in this case, I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable to ask it to cover any of the unexpected costs Mr M says he has incurred.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman