DRN-2825473
The complaint
Miss R complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided lending that was unaffordable. 
What happened
Miss R took out a loan with Everyday Loans as follows:
Date taken Loan 
amountTerm Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayable
January 2019 £1,700 18 months £194.36 £3,498.48.
The loan purpose was debt consolidation  in other words, it was taken out to repay other 
debt.
When Miss R complained to Everyday Loans it didnt uphold her complaint so she brought 
her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked at the complaint and he didnt think 
Everyday Loans should have provided the loan. Our investigator set out directions indicating 
what Everyday Loans should do to put things right. 
Everyday Loans disagreed that it had done anything wrong. So, as the complaint hasnt 
been settled, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. Having thought about everything, I agree with our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
Lenders must work out if a borrower can sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside 
other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include more than just 
checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a 
proportionate check might also require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Everyday Loans asked Miss R about her income and expenses  including what she spent 
on her credit commitments. It also did its own credit check to understand Miss Rs credit 
history and looked at two months worth of bank statements. Everyday Loans recorded 
Miss Rs monthly take home pay was around £1,506. Everyday Loans also took into account 
nationally available statistics when thinking about Miss Rs likely spending and included an 
additional buffer to account for any change in circumstances or one-off additional expenses. 
Based on this, Everyday Loans said Miss R shouldve been able to afford the monthly 
repayment on this loan as she should still have had around £273 spare cash left after paying 
for this loan as she was using it to clear other debt currently costing her around £826 each 
month. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything Everyday Loans has said in response to our 
investigators assessment about the way it assessed affordability. And I've thought carefully 
about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this information and in 
particular whether it was enough for Everyday Loans to make a fair decision to lend.
Like our investigator, I think Everyday Loans should have been concerned to see that when 
Miss R applied for this loan it worked out that her debt servicing costs to existing creditors 
were already around £1,342 monthly. This amount was such a significant proportion of her 
take home pay it was a clear indication that Miss R had become over-reliant on credit and, in 
reality, was already experiencing financial difficulty. I think thats borne out by the fact that 
Everyday Loans credit checks showed clear signs of financial stress. She had credit cards 
close to and over their limits. And it was obvious from bank statements that Everyday Loans 
saw during the loan application process that she had taken out three other new short-term 
loans during the two previous months when she borrowed overall more than her monthly 
take home pay. Everyday Loans saw that Miss R was charged £50 in respect of unarranged 
overdraft fees in each of the two months running up to her applying for this loan.  
I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised that the information it had gathered showed that 
managing her debt had got beyond Miss Rs control and recognised the serious risk that this 
loan was likely to add to her overall indebtedness and financial difficulty  particularly as the 
monthly repayments for this loan would still mean Miss R needed to spend around a third of 
her earnings (at least) just on meeting her credit commitments. 
I've taken into account that Miss R received some additional income but I think its fair to say 
this included benefits that were paid based on her circumstances and specifically intended to 
help cover other costs  not repay additional debt. And whilst I've noted what Everyday 
Loans has said about Miss Rs spending on non-essentials, I think her bank statements 
provided Everyday Loans with a useful insight into her actual financial situation at the time. 
And it couldve seen that Miss R didnt have available income to be able to make the loan 
repayments in a sustainable way, regardless of what its affordability calculation appeared to 
show. In reality, she was over-reliant on credit to subsidise her everyday costs and fund her 
borrowing.   
I've taken into account that Everyday Loans understood that the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation. But Everyday Loans didnt have control over how Miss R used the loan as it 
paid the loan balance to her. Having seen the extent of her evident reliance on taking out 
expensive credit, I think it was apparent that there was a real risk Miss R would use the loan to meet her immediate financial demands. So all the indications were that she would most 
likely remain in serious financial trouble regardless. And, as mentioned above, it was in any 
event unrealistic to expect her to be able to commit to paying such a significant level of her 
income towards debt repayments over the loan term. So I dont think Everyday Loans 
shouldve provided this loan. 
As Miss R has been further indebted with a high amount of interest on a loan that she 
shouldnt have been provided with she has lost out as a result of what Everyday Loans did 
wrong. I think Everyday Loans needs to take the following steps to put things right.
Putting things right
Our investigator didnt recommend that Everyday Loans should pay any additional redress. 
Miss R hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 
Everyday Loans acted unfairly towards Miss R in any other way. So Im not awarding any 
additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss R to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has been charged extra for a loan that 
should not have been provided to her. 
In line with this Services approach, Miss R shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
she borrowed. 
If Everyday Loans sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. Otherwise, Everyday Loans should liaise with the new debt owner 
to achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Miss R received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Miss R made should be deducted from this amount. 
If this results in Miss R having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss R bearing in mind the need to 
treat her positively and sympathetically if she still needs further time to pay what she 
owes.
Whilst its fair that Miss Rs credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend. So Everyday 
Loans should remove any negative information recorded on Miss Rs credit file 
regarding the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted 
if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Rs complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans 
to take the steps I've set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Susan WebbOmbudsman