DRN-2146934
The complaint
Mr L complains he was mis-sold life assurance by Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Mr L was sold a term assurance life policy by Barclays to cover a mortgage he took out in 
August 1982. He was later sold another policy in July 1994, which was soon after, in 1996, 
replaced with a policy from a different provider. This third policy is therefore not the subject 
of this complaint.
Mr L complained in 2019 via a third-party complaint handing service. He said he felt the 
policies had been unnecessary as at the time he was single with no dependents and any 
outstanding debt couldve been recovered from his estate in the event of his death.
Barclays initially felt that the complaint had been referred too late, but later consented to it 
being considered and gave its view that the policies hadnt been mis-sold. It said the cover 
had been a condition of lending, but Mr L wouldve been free to obtain the mandatory cover 
from another provider if hed wanted to.
Our investigator looked into the matter and reached the same conclusions as Barclays. She 
clarified first that the insurance under consideration was life cover and not payment 
protection insurance (PPI), as that was Mr L had presented the complaint. She said she was 
satisfied the cover had been a condition of lending and that making it a requirement wouldve 
been a commercial decision Barclays was entitled to take. 
The investigator also confirmed that the cover couldve been taken through an alternative 
provider and that any existing savings or insurances Mr L mightve had wouldnt have been 
enough to satisfy the condition. 
Mr L didnt accept the investigators view. He said that he didnt raise the matter until 
recently, when he had obtained a further advance that didnt require any cover to be put in 
place and if hed known about this service in 1996, he wouldve complained then. He 
questioned why cover had been necessary before if it wasnt now and commented that 
important terms and conditions should be clearly explained in mortgage offer documents. 
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, the matters been referred to 
me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I note what Mr L has said about his personal circumstances in 1982 and 1996. But at that 
time, it was common practice for lenders to require life cover to be in place to protect a 
mortgage, regardless of circumstances. If he hadnt taken a mortgage with Barclays, he 
wouldve undoubtably found himself with the same condition imposed by any other lender. 
As such, I dont think I can reasonably find Barclays to have acted incorrectly. As a business 
it was entitled to impose conditions on lending and as far as Ive seen those conditions were 
clearly communicated. 
The requirements around what information was provided to borrowers was very different in 
the 80s and 90s, with different regulatory regimes being in place. Practices are very different 
today because the financial industry works very differently, to reflect changes in society. 
Today, as Mr L wouldve found with his recent application for a further advance, the 
requirements are more rigorous, and information is communicated in a more straightforward 
manner. But Barclays was operating as it was required to do in 1982 and 1996, so I dont 
feel theres any basis on which I can uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman