DRN-2169231
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain about QIC Europe Ltd and the handling of their claim for repairs to 
the roof of their conservatory.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs Ss conservatory roof was damaged following a hailstorm. So, they made a 
claim on their home insurance to have it repaired.
QIC sent a third-party company, who Ill refer to as M, to inspect the damage. M agreed the 
damage had been caused by a hail storm, and explained the relevant repair work would cost 
£1,498.45 + VAT.
But Mr S and Mrs S were unhappy with the proposed repairs. They were unhappy that an 
exact replacement for the damaged gasket couldnt be sourced. And they were unhappy with 
the idea of using black silicone instead as they felt this would prevent further repairs from 
being possible in similar situations. So, they thought the only fair solution was for all the 
gaskets to be replaced so they matched.
QIC didnt agree as M confirmed the silicone could be cut out if further repairs were required. 
So, they explained Mr S and Mrs S could either continue with the proposed repairs or take a 
cash settlement to arrange their own, in line with their terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs S 
werent happy with this, so they raised a complaint.
Mr S and Mrs S were unhappy with the repairs QIC felt were satisfactory as they felt it left 
them with a roof in a worse condition than before. And they were unhappy with the cash 
settlement they were offered. They explained the claim was recorded as being worth 
£2,076.32 on their renewal documents yet theyd only been offered £1,434.85. And they 
were unhappy they had to claim for the additional VAT amount relating to a new gasket, as 
this would only be available to purchase second hand. They maintained QIC should replace 
all the gaskets as they felt this was the only way to have the roof repaired to the same 
standard as it was before the hailstorm.
QIC didnt agree. They thought they acted in line with the terms and conditions by offering to 
instruct M to complete the repairs that were quoted or pay a cash settlement for the same 
amount less Mr S and Mrs Ss excess. So, they didnt offer anything more. As Mr S and Mrs 
S remained unhappy, they referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought QIC had acted 
fairly when relying on Ms recommendations regarding the repairs and the use of black 
silicone. And she thought QIC were fair when offering a cash settlement if Mr S and Mrs S 
didnt want to continue with these repairs. So, she didnt think QIC needed to do anything 
more.
Mr S and Mrs S didnt agree. They referred to the difference between the claim cost listed on 
the policy renewal documents and what the cash settlement QIC offered. And they thought 
the VAT element was unclaimable due to the replacement gasket no longer being available. 
So, they maintained their belief that all the gaskets should be replaced and that QIC should 
cover the cost of this.
Our investigator responded, explaining the claim cost on the renewal documents was based 
on the reserves added to the claim. And that this wasnt the actual cost of the claim. So, she 
didnt think QIC needed to pay this as the cash settlement amount. And she explained if Mr 
S and Mrs S did purchase a second-hand gasket, it was unlikely to include VAT so they 
wouldnt need to claim for the VAT anyway. So, her view didnt change. Mr S and Mrs S 
didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome. And its important to note its not my role to re-underwrite the claim. My role is to 
decide whether QIC acted fairly and reasonably when looking to settle the claim, based on 
the information they had available.
First, I want to recognise the upset Mr S and Mrs S have been caused by this complaint. Ive 
no doubt it wouldve been upsetting to find their conservatory roof had been damaged. And I 
appreciate they took out the insurance policy to make situations like that less stressful. So, I 
can appreciate why they have been left frustrated at the difficulties theyve faced when trying 
to arrange for a repair they feel is satisfactory. But for me to say QIC have done something 
wrong, Id need to be satisfied the repairs the suggested were unsuitable. Or, that the cash 
settlement they offered was unfair and not in line with the terms of the policy. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
The terms and conditions of Mr S and Mrs Ss policy explain that, when settling the claim, 
they will give the customer two options. These options are:
i) We will choose a contractor (our preferred contractor) and instruct them to carry
out the rebuilding work, repairs or replacement.
ii) We will pay you a cash settlement for the same amount it would have cost us to use our 
preferred contractor.
Ive seen that QIC have made both options available to Mr S and Mrs S. So, I think QIC have 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. But Im aware Mr S and Mrs S dont 
think either of these options were fair, so Ive looked at both separately to decide if I think 
they are.
In terms of the potential repair, Im aware M attended Mr S and Mrs Ss property. And its M 
who provided a quote for the repair work that would be needed to fix the roof. So, Ive 
considered whether QIC acted fairly when relying upon the quote M provided.
its not in dispute that an exact replacement gasket cant be sourced. Mr S and Mrs S are 
unhappy that the use of black silicone has been suggested as an exact replacement gasket 
isnt available to be ordered. Theyve explained they think the silicone will prevent further 
future repairs. But Ive seen M have confirmed this isnt the case. Theyve explained the 
silicone could be cut out in the event of further damage in the future. And M explained the 
use of silicone would create a permanent bond which, alongside the new polycarbonate 
sheets, would repair the damage to Mr S and Mrs Ss roof adequately. So, I think the repairs QIC have suggested are fair. Although I understand Mr S and Mrs Ss position that all the 
gaskets should be replaced as an original gasket cant be found, I dont think it would be fair 
for QIC to cover the cost of this. QIC have offered a repair that M have confirmed will fix Mr 
S and Mrs Ss roof. And I dont think this repair will affect any future work that might need to 
be completed on the roof. So, I think QIC have provided a reasonable repair option to Mr S 
and Mrs S and I cant say theyve acted unfairly.
Ive then turned to the cash settlement QIC have offered. Mr S and Mrs S dont think this is 
reasonable as it doesnt correlate with the claim cost included within the renewal documents. 
Ive looked at this first. And I agree, the claim cost differs from the cash settlement offered to 
Mr S and Mrs S. 
But QIC have explained the claim cost was based on the reserve placed on the claim, which 
they estimated to be a maximum of £2,000 plus Ms attendance cost of £76.32. Its normal 
practice to place a reserve on a claim, so I dont think theyve acted unfairly by doing this.
Theyve explained the renewal documents were generated before Ms repair quote was 
received, which explains the difference. Ive seen the renewal documents were issued to Mr 
S and Mrs S on 18 November 2019. And Ive seen the quote from M was received on 15 
November. But crucially, this quote was received on a Friday afternoon. So, I think its likely 
the renewal documents were created before the exact cost of the repairs were known by 
QIC. So, while I can understand how this has confused Mr S and Mrs S, I dont think its 
evidence that the cash settlement QIC have offered is unfair.
Ive then looked at the cash settlement Mr S and Mrs S were offered, to make sure its 
calculated correctly from the quote M provided. And I think it has been. The amount offered 
to Mr S and Mrs is the total cost of the quote from M, less Mr S and Mrs Ss excess, the cost 
of Ms attendance and the VAT. QIC explained if Mr S and Mrs S can provide a VAT receipt 
following completion of any repair work they arrange, this would also be reimbursed on top 
of the cash settlement offered, up to the full amount quoted.
So, Im satisfied the cash settlement equates to the same amount QIC wouldve paid should 
Mr S and Mrs S decide to go ahead with the repairs through M. I understand Mr S and Mrs S 
are unhappy they would need to claim for the VAT separately and think this is unclaimable. 
But if Mr S and Mrs S pay for second hand parts where VAT isnt applicable, then I dont 
think Mr S and Mrs S would be left out of pocket as they wouldnt be paying the VAT. 
Because of the above, I think QIC have acted both fairly and reasonably, so I dont think they 
need to do anything more. I understand this isnt the outcome Mr S and Mrs S were hoping 
for, but I hope this decision goes some way to explaining the process QIC have followed and 
how their claim has been handled fairly and in line with the terms of the policy they hold.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint about QIC 
Europe Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman