DRN-4340151
The complaint
Mr T complains Bapchild Motoring World (Kent) Limited trading as Big Motoring World 
(Bapchild) failed to cancel his Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) insurance after he 
returned the car he purchased.
What happened
I recently issued a provisional decision on this matter on 1 September 2023, an extract of 
which is detailed below.
Mr T purchased a car from Bapchild. He took out GAP insurance which he says he was 
pressurised into buying. Additionally, he took GardX protection and paid an admin fee to 
Bapchild. 
Unhappy with the car, he decided to return it within Bapchilds seven day return window. 
He asked Bapchild to pay back the admin fee and the cost of the GardX protection but 
was told this was non-refundable.
He says Bapchild agreed to cancel the GAP insurance but failed to do this and the 
money was taken by the finance provider. Mr T says he then had to arrange cancellation 
of the GAP insurance himself, causing him distress and inconvenience.
Mr T complained to Bapchild and, unhappy with its response, raised a complaint with this 
Service. The complaint has come to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have explained in a separate decision why I dont think this Service has the power to 
consider the part of Mr Ts complaint relating to the GardX protection so I wont comment on 
that further here. Additionally, I cant consider the refund of the admin fee or the cost of the 
petrol which Mr T has seemingly accepted.
So, the key remaining area of contention is about Bapchilds failure to arrange cancellation 
of the GAP insurance, and this is the focus of my decision.
This Service has asked Bapchild to provide information about the GAP insurance on seven
separate occasions over the period from September 2022 to June 2023. It has failed to 
provide this or any explanation about what happened, other than to confirm the insurance 
was cancelled in March 2022 and to say it has no documentation available.
In the absence of anything from Bapchild, I will reach my decision on the basis of the 
evidence I do have available to me.
Mr T says Bapchild promised to arrange cancellation of the GAP insurance and this seems 
to be in line with whats detailed in Bapchilds cancellation terms. According to these terms, 
this should have been a straightforward process, handled by Bapchild but from Mr Ts 
testimony, this didnt go smoothly.
Mr T says Bapchild failed to cancel the insurance and as a consequence he was charged for 
the cover and had to arrange the refund and cancellation himself. This caused Mr T distress 
and inconvenience and hes detailed medical conditions and personal circumstances which 
he says made this worse for him.
Ive thought about this carefully, and based on the evidence Ive seen, on balance, Im 
satisfied Bapchild failed to cancel the GAP insurance and caused Mr T distress and 
inconvenience as a consequence. Ill be keeping this in mind when I make my award.
Im not satisfied Ive seen enough to safely conclude Mr T was pressurised into taking the 
GAP insurance and as the policy has now been cancelled and Mr T has confirmed hes 
received back what he paid, I dont think this makes a difference anyway.
Bapchild didnt provide any further comments for me to consider. Mr T provided comments, 
which Ive summarised below:
Bapchild didnt let him know it wouldnt refund the cost of the fuel. 
I should revisit my provisional decision to take into account the broader constraints of 
complaints like his.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ts further comments.
Our Investigator previously explained to Mr T we cant consider the refund of the fuel 
he put in the car. The position on that remains the same, and this is unrelated to any 
other products he purchased from Bapchild.
In a separate decision I have explained why we cant consider Mr Ts concerns about 
the GardX protection he purchased. And Ive already explained above in my 
provisional decision my findings on the aspect of the mis-sale of the GAP insurance.
Having thought carefully about Mr Ts further comments, I remain satisfied with the outcome 
I reached in my provisional decision and have found no reason to change this. So, as I 
explained above, I will be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bapchild Motoring World (Kent) 
Limited trading as Big Motoring World to pay Mr T £100 for the impact of its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Paul PhillipsOmbudsman