DRN-2071196
The complaint
Mr P and Mr T complain that Aviva Insurance Limited mishandled their car insurance claim 
for a chipped windscreen. The repairs took two home visits and a garage visit, and they 
would like to be compensated for the time they took off work.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
- Avivas appointed repairer attended Mr P and Mr Ts home to attempt a repair. It says 
the repairer wouldnt have known the windscreen wasnt repairable until the damage 
had been inspected. Ive not seen or been told anything that leads me to doubt what 
Aviva says here. So, I cant reasonably decide the initial home visit could have been 
avoided.
- Mr P and Mr T then arranged a replacement windscreen through the repairers online 
booking system. When doing so, Mr P and Mr T noted the technology contained 
within their windscreen. However, the repairer overlooked this information and 
ordered the wrong windscreen; and attended again for the fitting.
- Aviva offered Mr P and Mr T £25 compensation for the inconvenience caused by the 
unnecessary second home visit. Our investigator thought this should be increased to 
£100. Aviva agreed. Aviva has also offered to consider Mr P and Mr Ts financial 
losses due to the second home visit, on receipt of proof  and our investigator 
thought covering one days loss of income was fair.
- Mr P and Mr T told us that Mr P took the day off work for the second visit, and due to 
the nature of his employment, he lost £211. They have provided some information to 
support this and I accept what they say. In my view, its reasonable for Mr Ps lost 
income to be reimbursed for the unnecessary second visit.
- I appreciate that Mr P and Mr T would also like their costs and losses reimbursed for 
their visit to the garage, to have the correct replacement windscreen fitted. However, 
Aviva says the correct windscreen had to be fitted at a garage, rather than at home, 
due to the calibration requirements of the technology. As such, a garage visit would 
have always been needed once it had been determined the windscreen couldnt be 
repaired. Again, I havent seen or been told anything that leads me to doubt what 
Aviva says here, so I cant reasonably decide the garage visit could have been 
avoided.
- I accept the second home visit was avoidable. However, Im not persuaded the initial 
visit to attempt repair, or the garage visit for calibration, was unreasonable. As such, 
Im not persuaded that Aviva needs to compensate Mr P and Mr T for the 
inconvenience or losses either of these two appointments caused.
- Overall, I consider £100 compensation fairly acknowledges the inconvenience and 
frustration caused by the second home visit, particularly given Mr Ps £211 lost 
income is to be reimbursed. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to compensate Mr P and Mr T £311 in total. If £25 was 
previously paid, this amount should be deducted from the settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman