DRN-3499754
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that MetLife Europe d.a.c (MetLife) declined a claim he made under his 
income protection policy.
What happened
Mr C has a group income protection insurance policy, through his employer. The policy 
provides financial support for an employee, if they are incapacitated, and unable to fulfil the 
material and substantial duties of their own occupation.  
The policy has a deferred period of 13 weeks. Meaning that, if Mr C met the relevant terms 
and conditions of the policy, he would be entitled to the benefits under the policy, following 
that 13-week period.
On 19 February 2022, Mr C was signed off work by his doctor. Mr C continued to be signed 
off in this way, past the 13-week deferred period. So, he made a claim under the policy  
completing a claim form on 20 July 2020.
MetLife considered Mr Cs claim and declined it. It explained that Mr C needed to have been 
incapacitated, as per the policy terms, because of an illness or injury. And it didnt consider 
this was the case. It said rather than Mr C suffering from a functionally impairing illness or 
injury, his situation was more in keeping with stress related to the workplace  which wasnt 
an illness itself, but rather the response to working conditions. So, it said it wouldnt be 
settling Mr Cs claim.
Mr C felt this was unfair. He said he was suffering from severe anxiety  an illness  and felt 
this had been evidence by the various medical professionals he had been seeing. Mr C 
provided a range of information from these professionals and raised a complaint about the 
decline of his claim. But MetLife maintained its position on the matter. So, Mr C referred his 
complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, 
she thought MetLife had acted reasonably in the decision it made, based on the evidence it 
had seen. She noted that according to the NHS stress is the response to a situation, rather 
than an illness. And, whilst stress can lead to serious illness, it isnt classed as an illness 
itself. She said MetLife reasonably interpreted the evidence provided to them, as showing Mr 
C wasnt working due to work related stress, rather than a medical condition termed as an 
illness or injury  which in turn was incapacitating him from carrying out his own occupation. 
Mr C didnt agree. He noted he had been suffering from severe anxiety  and referenced 
information from the medical professionals hed seen. Mr C also provided a further document 
from one of these medical professions, which he felt supported his case. 
Because Mr C didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I do appreciate Mr C will be 
disappointed about this  its clear he feels strongly about the matter. But Id like to reassure 
both parties that Ive considered all information provided to me when coming to my decision. 
Ive explained the reason for my decision below  and only referred to evidence where this is 
necessary to explain my reasoning.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly, fairly and not unreasonably decline it. So, Ive 
thought about whether MetLife, in declining Mr Cs claim, acted in line with this. And Im 
satisfied it did. 
Cover under the policy
Ive reviewed Mr Cs policy documentation, to see what cover the policy provides. I can see 
the policy explains, under the policy benefit section, that:
Subject to the definitions, any exclusions conditions and endorsements to this policy, the 
policy benefit and temporary cover benefit (if applicable) will be payable by the insurer to 
the policyholder if the insurer receives proof satisfactory to the insurer, that the insured 
member has been incapacitated for the deferred period and continues to be 
incapacitated.
Mr Cs policy schedule notes the deferred period as 13 weeks. And explains that Mr Cs 
policy is on own occupation terms. Meaning, the definition of incapacity, in relation to own 
occupation, needs to be satisfied for a claim to be covered.
The definition of incapacity noted in the policy for this is:
Unable to perform their own occupation  an insured member, eligible employee or 
eligible partner, is incapacitated it:
- They are unable to perform, due to illness or injury, the material and substantial 
duties required of them in their own occupation which they are performing 
immediately prior to being incapacitated; and
- Are not following any other occupation.
Material and substantial duties is explained as occupation-related duties that are normally 
required for the performance of an occupation. And cant reasonably be omitted, changed or 
modified. 
Given the above, for Mr Cs claim to be successful, Id need to be satisfied that it was 
reasonable for Metlife to conclude that Mr C wasnt incapacitated, by an illness or injury, 
during his 13-week deferred period, and remained so after it. 
Claims decision 
Mr Cs first day of absence was 19 February 2020  as evidenced by a fit note from his 
doctor. This means that Mr C would have needed to meet the definition of incapacity through 
illness or injury within the 13 weeks following this. And, continue to meet the definition after 
that point  which would be 20 May 2020. MetLife has said that the reason Mr C wasnt working during the above time, was due to 
work-related stress, rather than a medical condition that would be considered an illness or 
injury. And so, the policy doesnt cover the situation Mr C found himself in. Ive considered 
MetLifes reasoning here. And Im satisfied it came to a fair and reasonable conclusion, 
based on the evidence supplied to it. 
I say this because I think MetLife has reasonably assessed that the evidence provided 
shows the overriding and predominate cause of Mr C being away from work wasnt a 
recognised medical illness. But rather due to work-related stress  which isnt an illness 
itself. Given this, Im satisfied MetLife acted fairly in saying Mr C doesnt meet the policy 
terms within, and after, the 13-week deferred period. 
The notes from Mr Cs doctor all say Mr C was diagnosed with work stress  and thats what 
he was signed off for each time. The doctors notes mention employment issues Mr C was 
pursuing legal advice for. And the wellbeing service Mr C had contact with said Mr C was 
anxious, distressed and worried, mainly affecting his working life. 
In addition to this, MetLife reviewed information from the specialists Mr C sought treatment 
from. In February 2021, the psychotherapist Mr C was seeing noted that Mr Cs presenting 
issue which we have been working with, is workplace related stress and anxiety, deriving 
from his experiences at work last year. The same specialist has recently noted that the 
impact of the potential redundancy, and the subsequent meetings concerning that, in which 
he felt intimidated and not heard, was such that he would not of been able to perform similar 
tasks for a different employer, such was the magnitude of the anxiety that those various 
experiences engendered. 
Whilst the above notes Mr C not being able to perform work tasks due to anxiety levels, this 
was noted as due to work stress. So, Im satisfied MetLife acted fairly in its interpretation of 
the information overall, and its position that this doesnt change the outcome of the claim is 
fair. 
Mr C has raised that it is possible to be suffering from work-related stress, and anxiety at the 
same time. And I do acknowledge this can be the case. But my role is to decide whether 
MetLife came to a reasonable conclusion  and for the reasons given above, I think it did. I 
havent seen persuasive evidence that the diagnosis wasnt work related stress  it strongly 
suggests it was. And as there was no medical illness, which caused incapacity as per the 
policy terms, I dont require MetLife to do anything more.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
MetLife Europe d.a.c to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman