DRN-4263104
The complaint
K, a limited company, complains Barclays Bank Plc unfairly blocked, closed and then 
removed funds from its account.
What happened
I summarised the background to Ks complaint in my provisional decision. But for the 
purposes of issuing this final decision I now repeat those facts here.
K held a business account with Barclays. In July 2021 Barclays reviewed Ks account, during 
which time the account was blocked. This followed the receipt of fraud reports related to 
payments which credited the account.
Barclays concluded their review and decided to close the account immediately. They 
returned part of the balance they removed back to source.
K says the payments in question were from genuine cryptocurrency trades. Ks director, Mr 
O, traded cryptocurrency on a third-party platform using its peer-to-peer function. This meant 
the buyer of the cryptocurrency would make a payment directly to Ks account, and on 
receipt of the funds Mr O would transfer the cryptocurrency to the buyer. He provided 
evidence of his trades and says he informed Barclays about the changes to the activity that 
would take place on Ks account in May 2021.
Ks complaint was initially upheld by our investigator. Barclays disagreed with the outcome 
and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. I made a provisional decision on the complaint earlier this month. My findings were:
Block and account closure
Barclays have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account 
is opened. They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to know their customer, 
verify their sources of income, and where possible to detect and prevent harm, including 
harm experienced by third parties.
Barclays will review accounts to comply with its responsibilities. And its common industry 
practice for firms to restrict access to funds to conduct a review - doing so helps prevent 
potential losses that might otherwise result. I appreciate Mr Os sentiment, but I disagree that 
Barclays needed to speak to him before blocking the account. This could have afforded him 
the opportunity to move funds away from the account which were the subject of Barclays 
concerns. So, Im satisfied the increased activity on Ks account and receipt of third-party 
reports of fraud was sufficient to block the account, even if this prevented K carrying out 
business, causing it loss and/or reputational damage. 
Barclays dont need tell Mr O the full detail behind their review and their considerations. 
There are often good reasons for this, and Im satisfied there are here too. I appreciate Mr 
Os frustration, but I dont require Barclays to give him any more information than they 
already have. I appreciate Mr O believes he was discriminated against, so that K was 
impacted by this, but Im satisfied Barclays block and review did not relate to any protected 
characteristic belonging to him. 
Barclays can close customer accounts. They have a broad commercial discretion and were 
able to close Ks account. But Im not satisfied they fairly applied their terms which relate to 
the immediate closure of an account. I dont find the relevant facts show any of the express 
circumstances were met to do this. Instead, they should have given K two months notice to 
close the account.
Mr O lost faith in the UK banking system due to Barclays actions, so he decided not to open 
another business account for K. As a result, Im not persuaded K experienced inconvenience 
due to the immediate closure or failure to return the remaining funds promptly (minus the 
funds which were returned to source)  its business simply stopped as a result of Mr Os 
decision. So, Im not awarding K compensation. Neither am I awarding losses to K due to 
how Mr O felt or the losses he experienced as a result of Barclays actions  he is not the 
eligible complainant under DISP for this complaint.
The return of funds
Generally, the law respects freedom of contract for businesses to enter into agreements with 
one another and to be bound by them. Businesses like K cannot benefit from consumer 
protection, such as the Consumer Rights Act 2015  there is no general fairness test 
applicable to all the terms that formed its contract with Barclays.
K agreed to Barclays standard terms in return for the account. So, in principle K is bound by 
those terms. K wasnt compelled to contract with Barclays, and it presumably had a choice of 
accounts within the market.
So, my focus is whether Barclays had mandate under their agreement with K to remove 
funds from Ks account. The business terms and conditions contain the following term:
When we can take money out of your account and when we can refuse to accept 
payments into your account
Rarely, a payment comes into your account, but the paying bank realises it was made 
fraudulently. Or it may be that the person paying it doesnt have enough money. If this 
happens, we can take the money back out of your account.
I find this term unambiguous, and it would cover a circumstance where a payer made 
payments as a result of a fraud even if the payee received the payments in good faith.
On reviewing the information Barclays received about the payments in question, Im satisfied 
they resulted from fraud. Mr O may want more detail than this, but Im treating the 
information Ive available in confidence, which is a power afforded to me under the Dispute 
Resolution rules (DISP) that govern our service.
The above doesnt mean I think K received the payments dishonestly. Instead, Mr O has shown reasonable evidence of trading cryptocurrency in exchange for the payments and that 
the payments were sent to Ks account for this purpose.
However, Barclays term to remove the funds doesnt require K to have acted in bad faith. 
And in the circumstances of this individual complaint, Im satisfied they could remove the 
funds from Ks account, even though this caused K a loss. So, I dont currently require 
Barclays to pay K the sum they removed from its account and didnt return to it.
K responded to my complaint and disagreed with the outcome. In summary it said:
It would be unjust for K to bear the loss of Barclays returning the funds.
Barclays advisor informed Mr O that cryptocurrency trading was permissible in May 
2021, so it was unfair for them to seize funds resulting from trades.
Barclays heavily influenced Mr Os decision not to continue K as a business due to 
the account closure, so K did experience inconvenience which warrants 
compensation.
K didnt act in bad faith when receiving the funds, so Barclays ought to refund them.
Barclays should collaborate with the partner bank to identify and apprehend the 
individual responsible for the fraud. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to award K compensation for the same reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision. My provisional findings are copied above and now form my findings for this final 
decision. Ill now address the points K made in response to my provisional decision.
K as a business freely entered into an agreement with Barclays. That agreement contained a 
clear term that allowed Barclays to take the action they did  the term did not require K to 
have acted in bad faith. Based on the information Ive seen; Im satisfied Barclays fairly 
concluded the payments in question resulted from fraud. I appreciate K is unlikely to have 
been a witting participant in the fraud or had knowledge of the wider circumstances at play, 
but I dont find this meant Barclays couldnt take the action they did. 
Mr O says he informed Barclays that Ks account would be used for cryptocurrency trading 
and was told this was permissible. But I dont find this meant Barclays shouldnt have 
blocked the account on receipt of fraud reports regarding payments resulting from 
cryptocurrency trading. They understandably would want to  review what was happening on 
the account and take pre-emptive action until the review completed.
Im not satisfied Barclays should pay compensation to K for inconvenience. Barclays ought 
to have given 60 days notice, but they were entitled to close the account and Im not finding 
fault with that decision. Mr O may have been affected by the closure to the extent that he 
stopped running K as a business, but that was his choice, and Im not holding Barclays 
responsible for the effect of his decision.Mr O says Barclays should try to identify and apprehend the individual responsible for the 
fraud in question. But considering the circumstances of the complaint and the nature of the 
fraud reports they received, I dont require Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is not to award compensation to K for the reasons I have given above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman