DRN-4147497
The complaint
Mr S complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank was 
irresponsible in its lending to him.
Mr S is being represented by a third party but for ease of reference I have referred to Mr S 
throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mr S was provided with a credit card with an initial credit limit of £5,000 in January 2007. 
M&S Bank has provided information showing the following credit limit increases applied to 
Mr Ss account statements:
August 2007  limit increased to £7,000
February 2008 - limit increased to £8,200
September 2011  limit increased to £9,850
November 2012  limit increased to £11,800
Mr S says he only became aware that M&S Bank hadnt acted appropriately when he 
contacted a debt advice service. He says adequate checks werent carried out before the 
lending was provided and he isnt now able to repay his debts. 
M&S Bank issued a final response letter dated 29 July 2022. It said that when processing 
applications for credit it conducted detailed creditworthiness and affordability assessments 
using data provided by the applicant, internal data if held and information from the credit 
reference agencies. It said based on these checks Mr Ss application was accepted and his 
account opened in January 2007. It said Mr S made regular payments to his account until he 
informed it of his financial difficulties in August 2021. Regarding the limit increases it said 
there were no County Court Judgments recorded or bankruptcies, no missed payments in 
the previous 12 months and other factors fell within its credit policy. The last credit limit 
increase was in October 2012 and the highest balance on Mr Ss account was £8,042 in 
2010. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. 
She didnt think that the credit limit increases that took place in 2011 and 2012 were 
responsible. Based on this she thought Mr Ss account should be reworked to reflect lending 
shouldnt have been increased beyond the £8,200 credit limit.
M&S Bank responded to our investigators view to reiterate that Mr Ss highest balance was 
£8,042 and as this was below the £8,200 credit limit no further action would be required.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view. He said the lending should never have been 
provided and he has been put into financial difficulties due to this lending decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit, lenders need to assess the ability of the consumer to be able to 
make the repayments in an affordable way over the loan term. There arent specific checks 
that need to be carried out, but the regulations say these need to be reasonable and 
proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of the credit being 
provided, the frequency of its use, the repayments and the total cost of the credit.
There is limited information available in regard to the checks undertaken by M&S Bank when 
the initial lending decision and subsequent credit limit increases were applied. I do not find 
this surprising given when these decisions were made. I have therefore looked through the 
evidence that has been provided to see what I think reasonable checks would have shown at 
the time to assess whether this supports the lending decisions being reasonable.
Mr S was provided with a M&S Credit card in 2007. The initial credit limit was £5,000. Mr S 
has provided copies of his bank account (joint account statements have been provided). The 
bank statements show income and benefit payments into the account averaging around 
£1,520 in the three months leading up to the application. The statements then show 
payments for other credit commitments, utilities, housing and for general living expenses 
averaging around £1,080. Based on this information, I do not find I can say that M&S Bank 
should have considered the account with a £5,000 credit limit to be unaffordable. 
I have looked at Mr Ss use of his credit card in the months leading up to the first credit limit 
increase. This shows that Mr S carried out a series of balance transfers in February 2007 
which brought his account up to its limit (slightly over when interest was included). Mr S then 
paid slightly above the minimum repayment amount in the following months reducing his 
balance to around £4,200 at the time of the first credit limit increase. I do not find that this 
account management showed signs of financial difficulty and so I do not find this alone 
meant a credit limit increase shouldnt have been applied. I have therefore looked at Mr Ss 
banks statements from the time. As had been the situation at the time of Mr Ss application, 
his statements showed income and benefit payment receipts. His average monthly income in 
the months leading up the credit limit increase was around £1,500 and his expenses around 
£1,000. Based on this I do not find that I have enough evidence to say the additional lending 
should have been considered unaffordable.
In February 2008, Mr Ss credit limit was increased to £8,200. Mr Ss credit card statements 
show that he hadnt spent beyond the previous credit limit and his balance had reduced from 
around £4,200 in August 2007 to around £3,700 in February 2008. In this case, I cannot say 
that Mr Ss account management suggested he was struggling financially rather it showed 
he was managing his account well. I have therefore looked at this income at the time and his 
expenses. The bank statements provided show income of around £1,600 and expenses of 
around £1,000. While including the interest that would be due on the full credit balance 
would have left Mr S with limited disposable income, I do not find I have enough to say the 
increase should have been considered unaffordable.   
Two further credit limit increases took place in 2011 and 2012. These increased Mr Ss credit 
limit to £9,850 and then to £11,800. At the time of the 2011 credit limit increase, Mr Ss main 
income was from his benefit payments and while there were some cash deposits into his account as well, his total income averaged around £870. In the three months leading up to 
the 2012 credit limit increase Mr Ss banks statements show only benefit receipts and these 
gave a monthly income of around £740. Based on Mr Ss income I do not find that these last 
two credit limit increases should have been considered sustainably affordable. 
However, as M&S Bank has confirmed that Mr Ss account didnt go above the £8,200 credit 
limit that was applied in August 2008, I cannot say that these later credit limit increases have 
had an adverse effect on Mr S. I say this because while the credit was available to him, he 
didnt make use of this.  
Putting things right
While I do not find that M&S Bank should have provided the credit limit increases in 2011 
and 2012, as Mr S didnt make use of the funds available through these limit increases, I do 
not find there is any action needed as a result of my decision. 
That said, I note Mr Ss comments that he is only able to make token repayments on his 
debts and given his circumstances we would expect M&S Bank to treat him sympathetically 
and positively in regard to his outstanding balance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. M&S Bank shouldnt have considered the 
credit limit increases applied to Mr Ss account in 2011 and 2012 as sustainably affordable. 
But as Mr S didnt take advantage of these, it isnt required to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman