DRN-2844985
The complaint
Mr R complains about Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd trading as Lantern trying to 
collect a debt on a loan which he believes was sold to him irresponsibly. He wants any 
charges and interest refunded. And the details of the debt removed from his credit file.
What happened
Mr R tells us that he was provided with a loan by a business Ill refer to as W. He explained 
that he later complained to W that the loan had been unaffordable and had been made 
irresponsibly. Believing his complaint to have been upheld, Mr R says he later discovered 
that W had gone into administration. And that the debt had been sold to Lantern. He says 
that when he complained to Lantern and asked it to refund the interest and charges it had 
rejected his complaint.
Lantern told us that it had acquired the debt in 2019 from the administrators of W. And that 
the administrators had set a date of 31 August 2019 by which claims for redress against W 
needed to be made. It said that it wasnt responsible for the actions of W.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that 
Lantern was only acting as a debt collection business. And that it wasnt responsible for what 
had gone on prior to it acquiring the loan.
Mr R wasnt happy with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr R has experienced financial difficulties. And I understand that this can have 
a distressing effect and contribute to health concerns.
Mr Rs original complaint was about the loan being sold to him irresponsibly and at a time 
when he couldnt afford to repay it. Its not in dispute that this complaint was made to W. And 
that Lantern played no part in the granting of the initial loan.
As Im looking at a complaint against Lantern, which is now the owner of the debt, Im only 
able to consider its actions. And not those of W. So Im unable to make a finding as to 
whether or not the loan was sold irresponsibly. Whilst his previous complaint to W had been 
acknowledged, theres no evidence to say that it had been upheld. Or identified as giving 
any right to redress.
Ive seen information that the businesses supervising the administration of W set a deadline 
of 31 August 2019, by which time all claims for redress against W had to be submitted. Mr R 
states that he was unaware of this process. The deadline for claims to be submitted was a 
matter for the administrators. And as Lantern was not directly involved in that process, I cant 
say it did anything wrong.
Im aware Mr R doesnt think that it was fair that Lantern shouldnt have acquired the debt 
whilst it was subject of a complaint. Nor does he agree that the administrators should have 
sold the debt. But Im afraid that both those issues are not matters over which Ive any 
control.
When the loan was sold to Lantern it became the legal owner of the debt in the sum of 
£980.33. As such its entitled to seek repayment of that sum. So I cant say that Lantern has 
done anything wrong in contacting Mr R and seeking to collect the debt from him.
When a customer raises a complaint, wed expect a business to properly investigate that 
matter. And I find that Lantern has complied with its obligations. It looked into Mr Rs 
complaint and then provided the details of the circumstances in which it came to own the 
debt. I find that this was a reasonable response.
I dont find that Lantern has done anything wrong relating to its acquisition of the debt. Or its 
subsequent efforts at collection. It wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to require Lantern 
to waive any charges or interest which was applied to the debt by W.
Going forward, wed expect a business to treat its customers fairly. And if a business is 
aware that a customer is facing financial difficulties its required to show forbearance and 
due consideration. How that is achieved is a matter for each individual business. But 
typically, it might include an affordable payment arrangement. And I can see that Lantern 
suggested to Mr R that he contact the business which is managing the account on its behalf. 
Whilst I empathise with Mr R, Im unable to find that Lantern has done anything wrong here. 
Accordingly Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman