DRN-3859021
The complaint
Mr E says Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, has treated him unfairly in 
relation to a transaction on his credit card which paid for flights.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr E used his Tesco credit card to pay for some flights to and in Africa for him 
and Mrs E, which were due to take place in May 2020. He paid a company Ill call Firm T 
who then booked the flights with two airlines. He paid Firm T just over £1677 for these 
flights. Mr E says that as the Pandemic spread the airlines supplying these flights decided to 
cancel the flights. So Mr E contacted Firm T about a refund but wasnt happy with the 
progress it was making in this regard. So in April 2020 he approached Tesco for help in 
recovering these funds paid for the flights. In July 2020 Firm T fully refunded Mr E the 
amount hed paid.
But in the interim Mr E says he had a litany of problems with dealing with Tesco. Mr E says 
he repeatedly sent evidence related to his dispute to Tesco but it either ignored it or lost it. 
He says he also had repeated contact with Tesco but to no avail and received mixed 
messages. Mr E says that as a result of the failings of Tesco he stopped paying his credit 
card bill. And Tesco then applied late payment fees to his account. 
Tesco says it recognised its customer service failings by paying a gesture of goodwill to Mr 
E. And although it hadnt properly considered what had happened by the time it issued a 
final response letter, it had told this Service that Mr E had already received a full refund from 
Firm T. So it doesnt think it had any more to do. Mr E, unhappy with this, brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our Investigator initially issued assessments saying Tesco had nothing more to do. They 
then issued an assessment telling Tesco it had treated Mr E unfairly and should rework the 
account as if Mr E had been refunded on the day he first took his dispute to it. Tesco 
disagrees and notes that previously this service had considered the operational difficulties all 
parties encountered due to the Pandemic. So Tesco asked for a decision and accordingly 
this case came to me.
In November 2022 I issued a provisional decision which didnt uphold Mr Es complaint and 
giving my reasons for that stance. The parties both responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Tesco said it didnt have anything further to say. Mr E 
responded to say he was very disappointed with my decision but didnt challenge any part of 
it or the rationale underpinning it. Mr E said his complaint was about fees and late payment 
charges being applied by Tesco. Ive nothing to add to what I already said in my provisional 
decision as described below.
As neither party has persuaded me that I should deviate from my stance as described in my 
provisional decision, it is my final decision that this complaint should not succeed for the 
reasons given above and in my provisional decision the major rationale of which is set out 
below.
Im very sorry to hear that Mr E has not been well and that he feels what happened here has 
had a negative impact on his wellbeing. Mr Es wellbeing has been at the forefront of my 
decision making on all the issues involved here. Mr E used his Tesco credit card to pay Firm 
T for the flights. This means Tesco has certain responsibilities to Mr E (if certain criteria are 
met) which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the CCA). Tesco is also a member of a card network which provides card services. 
And this network has rules which includes giving Tesco an avenue for card transactions to 
be disputed with Merchants, namely through the Chargeback process.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about Tesco and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr E fairly. This decision isnt about Firm T or the 
airlines, neither of which are within this services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback 
and S75. I hope this distinction is clear.could Tesco challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction on their 
account, as Mr E does here, Tesco (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the 
Chargeback process. This isnt a right for consumers and firms arent obliged to raise a 
chargeback. However this service does think its good practice for firms to raise a 
chargeback when it feels it has a reasonable prospect of success.
Mr E doesnt dispute that he used his Tesco credit card here. Nor does he dispute the 
amount, date, or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think Tesco couldve 
challenged the payment on the basis Mr E didnt properly authorise the transaction, given 
what Ive just set out.
Mr E first raised the dispute with Tesco at the end of April 2020 and Ive seen an email from 
then from Mr E showing that hed written to it and supplied a form detailing the dispute with 
Firm T. So I can see that hed done what he needed to in order to raise a dispute. And I can 
see that Mr E received a full refund on 17 July 2020, directly from Firm T to his credit card 
account with Tesco. 
Tesco agrees that it could have done things better and doesnt dispute Mr Es assertions 
about the matter. Ive considered its log of contact with Mr E and I can see a call logged on 8 
June 2020 which says Mr E was calling to see if Tesco had received his form. It also refers 
to a similar call on 04 June but there doesnt seem to be any record of that other than in the 
record of the call of the 8 June. So it seems clear Mr Es comments about not all his contact 
with Tesco being properly recorded or dealt with isnt without evidential support. 
However I can also see on 8 June it being recorded that Mr E was asked to provide 
supporting documentation. I can also see on 17 June and 19 June further contact between 
Mr E and Tesco noting the information Tesco had asked Mr E to provide was recorded as 
still being outstanding. And by 23 June I can see Tesco already deciding to compensate Mr 
E for the customer service it had provided him. And I can well appreciate Mr Es 
disappointment at how Tesco were handling matters at that time. But I note that Tesco, 
whilst acknowledging issues it had with the customer service was still asking Mr E for 
information and that wasnt forthcoming. And I think that is not unimportant in deciding this 
matter considering where this was in terms of the timings within the chargeback process.
I also need to consider the context of the situation and the Chargeback mechanism in place. 
The Chargeback process has defined time limits at each stage of the process for the parties 
to respond to each other as the dispute progresses through the chargeback processes. This 
back and forth can continue for some time before finally going to pre-arbitration and finally 
arbitration (the final stages of the Chargeback process). So a bank can act in a timely 
fashion and put forward the chargeback arguments it sees as relevant throughout the 
process and that could still take months to conclude. And it can conclude unsuccessfully for 
the consumer even if the bank pursues the matter doggedly. This is because the final arbiter 
of the dispute is the relevant network and not the bank or merchant involved. So in 
Chargeback it is important to remember that Tesco isnt responsible for the final outcome of 
going through the chargeback process. And furthermore consumers have no right to a 
chargeback being progressed as Ive described. However I do consider it good practice to do 
so where it has a reasonable prospect of success.
Furthermore Mr E put his complaint to Tesco less than two months after the initial pandemic 
lockdown in the UK. And all financial services had to deal with the double issue of both 
significant challenges to internal operational effectiveness and significant increase in 
complaints and customer interactions due to completely understandable consumer concerns 
about their financial services. And it is important to keep these well-known challenges that Tesco and the financial services industry as a whole had during the period in question. And 
in this case Tesco has pointed to this Services approach regarding such matters during this 
time in other cases that this service has seen.
There is no dispute that Tesco could have done better here, and indeed, Tesco has 
accepted this and made a gesture of goodwill to Mr E on this matter early in the relevant 
timeframe (as it should). 
Mr E took his complaint to Tesco on 28 April 2020 and Mr Es account was credited by Firm 
T with the outstanding amount on 17 July 2020. I note that the Chargeback rules allow a 
Chargeback to be begun within 120 days of a variety of different starting points such as the 
last expected day of service (i.e. the returning flight) or when Mr E was notified of the flights 
cancellation. And so it is clear that Mr E was refunded within that time, and that timeframe is 
only for the beginning of the process to have begun, not a time limit for it to be concluded. 
So considering the matter as a whole, even if Tesco had treated Mr E with excellent 
customer service and had been investigating the matter thoroughly from the start, at the 
point Firm T refunded the transaction here, Tesco could have still been considering the 
matter and within time for the Chargeback process to start and been treating Mr E fairly. In 
other words Tesco could have dealt with the matter utterly fairly and pursued the 
Chargeback process properly and it not have concluded by the time Firm T refunded Mr E. 
And I note Firm T has a Force Majeure clause in its terms and conditions so had Tesco 
raised a chargeback it is possible that Firm T may have relied on that and defended at first 
instance the Chargeback thus delaying matters further. I acknowledge that Firm T did 
refund, but it is also clear that for commercial reasons businesses often have refunded 
cases to avoid the chargeback process. Hence it is unclear how Firm T would have reacted 
had it received the chargeback before it refunded. Accordingly for all the above reasons it is 
far from clear that had Tesco progressed the matter as it should Mr E would have received 
his refund at the time he did through solely Tescos efforts.
I do appreciate Mr Es expectations of how quickly the matter would be resolved by Tesco is 
somewhat different to that as Ive set out. And I appreciate that the customer service Mr E 
received from Tesco was far below his expectations and indeed Tescos. However Mr E was 
refunded for the transaction in dispute relatively promptly (albeit not through Tescos efforts 
here) during a time of unprecedented challenges for firms and indeed everyone. And Tesco 
is correct that this Service has considered such challenges in its decision making previously.
Mr E may argue that Tesco has benefited here from Firm T refunding when it did. But it is 
important for the impact of failings of firms to be considered properly and that remedies to 
such failings are properly considerate of the entire circumstances of what has happened. 
And although Tesco has accepted it had failings here it did acknowledge these and did ask 
for evidence again from Mr E which wasnt forthcoming. So although it clearly failed in 
matters here it is not solely responsible for not progressing the chargeback quicker.
The Investigator here is right that Tesco didnt deal with this issue properly, but Im not 
persuaded that this led to Mr E not being refunded within a reasonable timeframe 
considering the matter in the round. Albeit that Mr E received his refund entirely separately 
to Tescos efforts on the matter.
Section 75
Under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 debtors such as Mr E can bring a like 
claim against creditors (such as Tesco here) for breach of contract or misrepresentation by 
suppliers as long as certain criteria are met. Im satisfied the financial limits criteria here is 
met and I think the required Debtor-Creditor-Supplier relationship in relation to the actions of Firm T is met also. Having regard to Firm Ts terms and conditions here and noting the flight 
only nature of the booking Im not persuaded Firm T has breached or misrepresented the 
contract. The contract makes clear in the event of airlines cancelling flights Firm Ts liability 
is limited and that there are certain remedies available through differing means, one of which 
is a full refund. Which is what Mr E received. As a consequence Im not persuaded any 
breach or material misrepresentation is made out here. So although Tesco didnt consider 
these matters completely Im not persuaded Mr E has lost out as a result.
Fees and charges
Under the contract with Tesco with regard to the provision of the credit in relation to the 
credit card Mr E is required to make repayments to his outstanding balance. And in the event 
of late payment Tesco is entitled to charge a fee. Ive considered the statements and see Mr 
E has not paid and such fees have been applied. So Im not persuaded Tesco has done 
anything unfair here.
I appreciate Mr E was disappointed with Tescos handling of his dispute with Firm T, 
however hes responsible for meeting his responsibilities with regard to making repayments 
in line with the contract he agreed. So Im not persuaded that Tesco did anything wrong in 
how it acted when Mr E didnt pay on time.
Summary
So all in all having considered the matter carefully and kept Mr Es health and wellbeing 
central to my thinking, Im not persuaded Tesco needs to do any more here than the action it 
has already taken. Im not persuaded that had Tesco pursued the matter properly from the 
start Mr E would have received his refund any earlier than he did. As a consequence in 
relation to the refund Im not persuaded Mr E has lost out because of what Tesco did. And 
although I appreciate Tesco made significant errors in dealing with Mr E I can see it 
recognised these at the time and compensated Mr E promptly for this. As a consequence of 
all of this it is my final decision that this complaint should not succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank. It has nothing further to do in this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman