DRN-4001910
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Santander UK Plc is acting unfairly by offering cash incentives to new 
customers.
What happened
Mrs T complained to Santander as she thought it was acting unfairly by offering cash 
incentives to new customers but didnt offer similar incentives to existing customers.   
Santander didnt uphold the complaint, so Mrs T referred the matter to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into to it. But he didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. 
Mrs T didnt agree. She said that Santander had told her that she could qualify for the new 
customer incentive if she held an account elsewhere which she switched to it. But she 
pointed out that our investigator had said she didnt qualify. The investigator thought about 
this, but he didnt this this changed the outcome he had reached. 
Mrs T still disagreed saying the new customer duty principles include misleading the 
customer about such offers. But the investigator explained that Customer Duty regulations 
dont come into force until later this year.
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs Ts complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as our investigator. I know Mrs T 
will be disappointed with this outcome, so Ill explain why.
Mrs T is an existing Santander customer. She has held her current, savings and mortgage 
accounts with it for many years. So, I can understand why she feels its unfair that Santander 
offers cash incentives to new customers switching accounts to it, rather than rewarding loyal 
customers like her. Particularly when  as Mrs T has pointed out, the cost-of-living crisis has 
had an impact on everyone.
But I can only uphold Mrs Ts complaint if I found that Santander had done something 
substantially wrong when it offered a cash incentive to new customers. And Ive not found 
that it did.
I can see that there may have been some confusion when Mrs T first contacted Santander 
about her concerns and the information given about the terms of the how she might have 
been able to qualify for the cash incentive. But as the investigator explained, Santander did 
ultimately explain that the incentive was for new customers, so Mrs T would have had to 
have held an account elsewhere and switched it to Santander to qualify  subject to other 
qualifying criteria. But as Mrs T has noted, she didnt meet the criteria of Santanders offer.   
I dont consider it to be unusual for businesses to offer incentives to attract new business. 
This is a commercial decision a business is entitled to make and not something this service 
interferes with. So, Im satisfied Santander hasnt done anything wrong when it offers such 
incentives to new customers. 
I note Mrs T has suggested that Santanders incentive for new customers doesnt comply 
with the Consumer Duty. But the new Consumer Duty doesnt come into effect until                      
31 July 2023, and it isnt going to be applied retrospectively. So, Mrs Ts argument in this 
respect doesnt apply here.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman