DRN-3031238
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996.  Miss W says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold that PPI policy.
What happened
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought BoSs offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Miss W paid was fair in the circumstances.
Miss Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They didnt raise any new 
or additional points, but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided BoS should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that its offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for 
the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my reasons for each of 
these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
The parties agree that PPI was sold to Miss W by post. So I think shed have been able to 
consider and complete the application form in her own time and at her own pace. 
The first thing Ive considered in this matter is whether BoS made it clear that the PPI was 
optional, and Miss W didnt have to take the cover out if she didnt want it. I can see that for 
PPI to be added to her account, Miss W had to select a box on the application form 
indicating she wanted a policy. And I can see that she did say she wanted the PPI. I think it 
was sufficiently clear from the application form that she could have just left that section blank 
if she didnt want cover. 
BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Miss W. That means it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable. But it did have to provide enough clear and timely information about the 
cover so she could decide if it was right for her.
I accept its possible the information BoS gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out, so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. I dont think the cover was fundamentally wrong. I say this because she 
wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. And it seems most 
likely it wasnt too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. 
I havent seen anything unusual about Miss Ws employment circumstances that would have 
stopped her from being able to make a successful claim if she needed to. From the 
information Ive seen, it also looks like the PPI was affordable. I can see how the policy could 
have been helpful to Miss W at what would have no doubt been a difficult time for her if she 
was out of work.  With all of this in mind, I cant reasonably say Miss W would have declined 
the cover had BoS given her more or better information about it. 
While the policy most likely contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, I dont think Miss W would have thought shed have been able to make a 
claim without providing some medical evidence to support that. Considering Miss Ws 
circumstances at the time of sale, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable. So, I 
think she would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, Im satisfied Miss W would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting, and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time. And in those circumstances, I think that she would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Miss Ws representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Miss W.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
BoSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair. 
My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
BoS didnt tell Miss W about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So, taking into account: 
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment 
in Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship 
between BoS and Miss W was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act because BoS didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit 
share in this case 
I dont think BoS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss W because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Miss Ws representative has made several representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary, it was argued Miss W should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: BoS failed to tell Miss W about the high commission and profit-share rates paid; 
the low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Miss W wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had she known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipBut I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether 
the consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy 
the unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow 
that a court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or 
conclude that a consumer would not have purchased the policy had the 
commission been disclosed; and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to 
merge the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and 
guidance about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI 
complaints) and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy 
caused by it should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Miss 
W in order to remedy the unfairness caused by BoS not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus 
interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level 
of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in 
my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness.
I am not, as the representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for BoSs failure to disclose the level of commission for the reasons 
Ive given above. Im satisfied it was fair for BoS to calculate compensation in line with the 
FCAs guidance and return some of the money Miss W paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Miss W 
with the policy Ive concluded above she would still have taken out if BoS had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So, I consider that BoSs payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As BoS has already paid Miss W compensation on this basis, I dont require it to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Ws complaint or make any award for 
this part of the complaint.But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Bank of 
Scotland Plc should pay Mrs W an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). As Bank 
of Scotland Plc has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not require it to take any 
further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman