DRN-4016231
The complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined his claim and avoided his 
home insurance policy following a theft. 
What happened
Mr S had home insurance with Admiral. In October 2020 he made a claim for some personal 
possessions after his son was mugged. He initially said the stolen items included £200 cash, 
a necklace and a bracelet. However Mr S account of what was taken changed over time and 
Admiral had concerns about the legitimacy of what he was claiming for. 
Due to this, it carried out further investigations, including asking Mr S for proof of the items 
claimed for and checking his claim history. Based on its findings, it said it was relying on the 
fraud term to avoid his policy (cancel it as if it never existed) back to the date of the claim. As 
it said thats when it considered the fraudulent act to have taken place. It said because of 
this it wouldnt refund any of the premiums paid for the policy during this time. 
Mr S didnt think this was fair. He said he had issues with his memory due to a learning 
difficulty and some medication he takes. And this is why he wasnt able to recall exactly what 
had been stolen or information about past claims. He made a complaint but Admiral didnt 
uphold it. So he brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. He said 
he didnt think Admiral had done enough to show that Mr S had intentionally exaggerated the 
claim and therefore it hadnt acted fairly by relying on the fraud term to avoid his policy. So 
he thought it should reverse its decision to avoid the policy, refund any premiums up until the 
claim date (plus 8% interest) and remove any markers on internal and external databases 
that show an avoidance. He also thought it should pay £250 compensation to make up for 
the distress it had caused. 
However he agreed that as Mr S hadnt provided enough evidence to show what the true 
value of the claim was, it had acted fairly by not paying the claim so it wouldnt ask it to 
reconsider this decision. 
Admiral didnt accept our investigators outcome. It said it had carried out thorough 
investigations and thought Mr S had intentionally tried to claim for items that he wasnt 
entitled to. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral has said it believes Mr S has been dishonest when making the claim. And it has 
relied on the fraud condition in the policy to decline the claim and avoid the policy. 
In cases where fraud has been alleged, our role is not to decide whether fraud has been 
committed, but to decide whether the business acted fairly and reasonably when reaching its 
decision to rely on a fraud term in a policy. We understand that accusing someone of fraud is 
a serious matter. So its important that a business has enough weight of evidence to make 
its decision fair and reasonable.
The fraud condition in Mr S policy states:
We will not pay a claim which is in any part fraudulent, false, exaggerated or if you or 
anyone acting for you makes a claim in a fraudulent or false way, or where we have been 
given any documents which are false or stolen. Your policy and all other policies to which 
you are connected through EUl Limited will be cancelled or voided. We will seek to recover 
any costs that have been incurred and will not return any premium.
I need to decide whether Admiral has acted fairly by relying on this condition to avoid Mr S 
policy.
Ive looked at the information provided by Mr S in relation to the claim. This includes emails 
and letters sent and phone calls where Mr S is asked about the incident. I can see from 
these that there are a number of discrepancies and inconsistencies in what Mr S claims for. 
So I understand why Admiral had concerns about the claim. 
However to fairly say a claim was fraudulent wed expect Admiral to have shown that Mr S 
most likely intentionally gave false or exaggerated information for financial gain. And I am 
not persuaded its done enough to show this. 
In the call with Mr S about the circumstances he sounds confused and forgetful. He 
struggles to remember which day of the week the event happened on and he references 
some medication he takes that causes him problems with memory. However he provides 
honest information about the fact the watch his son owns isnt a real designer brand, but is 
instead a fake. And accepts when Admiral explains that this wouldnt be covered under the 
policy. 
Further, Mr S has provided information about his diagnosis with a learning difficulty. As well 
as proof of the medication he is taking for a chronic pain condition. Both of these can impact 
his ability to recall information and communicate it clearly. While I appreciate Admiral werent 
aware of both of these conditions when the claim was made, Mr S did provide this 
information as it was investigating the claim, so it should have taken this into account when 
reaching its decision. 
Admiral has accepted that an incident took place. But it thinks Mr S has claimed for items 
that were above what was stolen. And while I agree Mr S has provided unclear information 
about what was stolen on the day, I dont agree theres enough evidence to say that it is 
more likely he did this with the intent to exaggerate the claim. I therefore dont think 
Admirals acted fairly by relying on the fraud term in the policy to avoid Mr S policy. 
For that reason, I agree with our investigator that it should refund the policy premiums back 
to the date of the claim with an additional 8% interest to make up for the time hes been 
without the funds. It should also remove any markers from internal or external databases 
that show an avoided policy. And it should pay Mr S £250 compensation to make up for the 
distress it has caused him by unfairly avoiding the policy.
However I agree that the items Mr S is claiming for as part of the theft remain unclear. And 
Mr S hasnt done enough to substantiate the claim and prove what he should be indemnified 
for. So I agree Admiral has reached a fair decision to repudiate the claim, and I wont ask it 
to reconsider this decision. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr S complaint and direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to:
Refund Mr S the policy premiums back to the date of the claim onwards. If there have 
been any successful claims during this time then Admiral should retain the policy 
premiums for the relevant policy year. 
Pay 8% interest on the premiums refunded from the date they were paid until it has 
reimbursed Mr S.
Pay Mr S £250 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman