DRN-3060401
The complaint
Mr W says that Thurlby Motors Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy alongside a hire purchase agreement he entered when buying a car.  
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy sold to Mr W alongside a hire purchase
agreement.
It has already been decided by another ombudsman that the sale of PPI and answering of
this complaint is the responsibility of Thurlby Motors Limited. So, I wont be re-visiting this in
my decision.
An adjudicator looked at this complaint  and originally didnt think that the complaint should
be upheld. But, after looking at the complaint again, reversed this view, and thought that the
complaint should be upheld.
Thurlby Motors disagreed with this  and also made an alternative offer to Mr W to resolve
the complaint. But Mr W didnt accept this offer. 
I then made a provisional decision on the complaint, as while I still felt that Mr Ws complaint 
should be upheld, I felt it was appropriate to set out exactly how Thurlby Motors should put 
things right.
In my provisional decision, I set out a deadline by which all further comments needed to be 
received in order to be considered. Mr W responded but had nothing further to add.
To date, Thurlby Motors have not responded. But as the deadline has now passed, it is time 
for me to issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.  
Thurlby Motors did not respond to my provisional decision, so I see no reason to depart from 
my previous findings and I still think that this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
It seems that Thurlby Motors provided advice to Mr W when it sold him his PPI policy  this
means that it needed to make sure that the policy was right for him  and if the policy wasnt
suitable for him, had to make it clear to Mr W, and not sell him an unsuitable policy. And
looking at the information available, I dont think that the policy was suitable for Mr W.
At the time Mr W was sold the PPI policy, he was self-employed  and this is clearly shown
on the paperwork completed at the time of sale. Ive looked at the closest policy summary
available for Mr Ws PPI policy  and I can see from this that people who were self-employed
wouldnt have been able to make a claim for unemployment. But Thurlby Motors still advised
him to buy it.
I dont think Mr W wouldve bought the policy if Thurlby Motors had made clear it wasnt right
for him. So, I think Mr W has lost out because of what Thurlby Motors did wrong.
Ive taken into account all of Thurlby Motors comments, but I still think I should uphold the
complaint.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I set out how Thurlby Motors should put things right. But these 
figures now need to be updated, due to the time that has passed since it was issued. 
I also asked both parties to provide more accurate information about what Mr W paid for his 
PPI policy. Mr W didnt have any further information to provide  and Ive heard nothing from 
Thurlby Motors providing information about this either. 
Thurlby Motors Limited should put Mr W in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt 
taken out PPI.
Based on information Ive seen from the lender, the agreement started on 3 April 2006 and
had a term of 48 months. The last PPI payment was made on 4 April 2010. Im therefore
assuming Mr W made all the payments on time and that it ran until its term. 
The policy cost £37.02 a month, and Mr W made the final payment in April 2010. Mr W has 
already complained to the lender about the commission and profit share it got from
the PPI. To put that right, the lender has already refunded £533.78 of the premiums Mr W
paid. Ive taken this into account when thinking about what Thurlby Motors Limited needs to
pay.
With this in mind Thurlby Motors Limited needs to: 
Work out the payments Mr W made each month for the PPI.
Ive worked this out to be 48 payments of £37.02 a month, or £1,776.96
As Mr W has already got back £533.78 because of the commission and profit share it 
got. Thurlby Motors may deduct this from the amount above.
£1,776.96 - £533.78 = £1,243.18
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. Ive 
updated this calculation to take into account the time since the provisional decision. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year. HM Revenue & Customs requires Thurlby Motors to 
take off tax from this interest. Thurlby Motors must give Mr W a certificate showing 
how much tax its taken off it he asks for one.
Mr W paid £1,243.18 over 48 months  or around £25.90 a month. Ive assumed each 
premium was paid on 4th of each month. I worked out the number of years, and fractions 
of years, from the date of each payment until the date of this final decision. Ive used this 
to work out the interest, which is £1,344.06. Tax is £268.81. 
For these reasons, as of the date of this decision, Thurlby Motors Limited needs to pay Mr W £2,318.80 and HMRC £268.81.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Thurlby Motors Limited should now put things right as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman