DRN-2956819
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE should refund the premium they paid 
for a single-trip travel insurance policy.
Reference to Great Lakes includes reference to its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought a single-trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. The 
policy was purchased on 1 August 2019 to cover their holiday to Mexico booked for 21 April 
2020 to 6 May 2020.
Mr and Mrs B paid £712.31 (excluding Insurance Premium Tax (IPT)) for the standard level 
of travel insurance cover, which also covered their three declared medical conditions each. 
The premium Mr and Mrs B paid for their travel insurance policy included a discount of 
£65.77. Mr and Mrs B paid a total of £787.84 for the policy including IPT. 
On 13 April 2020, the tour operator cancelled Mr and Mrs Bs holiday and re-booked it for 
similar dates in 2021. Mr and Mrs B contacted Great Lakes. On about 14 April 2020, Great 
Lakes cancelled the policy and said that it couldnt offer a full refund as the 14 day 'cooling-
off' period had expired, and the policy terms and conditions said that no refund will be issued 
outside of this period.
However, Great Lakes reviewed their cancellation policy due to the circumstances
surrounding Covid-19. Great Lakes considered a pro rata refund. But instead Great Lakes 
offered Mr and Mrs B a 20% reduction from the base premium of their next policy.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Great Lakes. It wrote a final response in mid-June 2020 
Mr and Mrs B then brought their complaint to our service in mid-August 2020.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened and didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. She thought that it was reasonable that Great Lakes was 
unable to change the policy to the new trip dates. She set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. The investigator 
also explained that its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started 
to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the 
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 1 August 
2019 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs B with a 
pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for their single trip travel insurance policy from 13 
April 2020 (the date the holiday was cancelled). But the investigator thought that Great 
Lakes offer of a discount of 20% of the base price of a future policy was more than the 
refund that was due. She didnt think that the terms of Great Lakes discount were 
unreasonably restrictive, so she thought the offer was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the investigators opinion. They asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. They say, in summary, that:
They are in their eighties.
There were ten other people in the party booked to travel to Mexico.
Mr and Mrs B paid a much higher amount for travel insurance than any of the others.
The other ten people all received a refund of their insurance cover. Mr and Mrs B 
were the only two people not to receive compensation at all. 
The exceptional circumstances were the totally unexpected fatal virus of Covid-19. 
The whole world was on lockdown.
It is unreasonable for Great Lakes to hide behind the cover of their rules, when other 
insurance companies paid out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The terms of Mr and Mrs Bs insurance policy with Great Lakes outline their cancellation 
rights under the contract. These say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or
receipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or
have made or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
Mr and Mrs B wanted to transfer the insurance to the postponed holiday rather than 
to cancel the policy. But cover had started on 1 August 2019 and was due to expire 
on 6 May 2020. If Great Lakes hadnt cancelled the policy on 14 April 2020, it 
wouldve expired about three weeks later and no refund wouldve been due. Great 
Lakes had no obligation to extend the policy by another year.
Whilst I have no reason to doubt what Mrs B has said about refunds to the other ten 
members of the party, she hasnt said that any of them was insured with Great 
Lakes. In any event, I have to consider the individual policy terms and circumstances 
of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.The policy was cancelled outside the cooling- off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says no premium will be refunded, 
however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances. The terms of the 
policy refer to individual circumstances, such as a change in a health or 
bereavement. So, I dont think that it is fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to 
apply that discretion to the circumstances relating to Covid-19, which impacted on 
many policyholders.
Ive considered whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
The premium Mr and Mrs B paid for this policy was for a period of approximately 280
days from 1 August 2019 to 6 May 2020. 
Mr and Mrs B were covered from 1 August 2019 for a number of listed events insured 
under the policy (including cancellation of any holiday due to illness).
After the cancellation of the holiday on 13 April 2020, Great Lakes wasnt covering 
any further risk under the policy for the last 24 days out of the 280 days it was 
intended to cover. A pro rata refund would be about £4.00.
Great Lakes offer of a discount of 20% of the base price of a future policy is more 
than the pro rata refund.
In the circumstances of this case I think the offer of Great Lakes is fair and 
reasonable.
I think a discount is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this 
case for the following reasons:
1. Mr and Mrs B entered into a contract with Great Lakes, paying a premium 
in return for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring 
under the policy  including for their declared medical conditions. Mr and 
Mrs B were able and willing to travel with their declared conditions when 
they took out the policy.
2. Paying a refund by way of a discount means the risk Great Lakes agreed 
to accept is moved to a future date. 
3. Theres not enough evidence that Mr and Mrs B have any new medical 
issues that will prevent them from booking holidays.
4. In making the offer of a discount Great Lakes is doing more than its 
required to do under the relevant regulations and the policy terms. 
5. I dont think the terms of the discount Great Lakes has offered are 
unreasonably restrictive for Mr and Mrs B.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 September 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman