DRN-2836276
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the level of cover provided by AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA). 
What happened
On 12 March 2021, Mr and Mrs P took out a home insurance policy, with cover due 
to start on 24 March 2021. 
The policy is underwritten by AXA.
On 15 March 2021, Mr P called AXA to question the extent of cover for garages and 
outbuildings  which has a limit of £5,000. 
Mr P said £5,000 was insufficient for his needs as he has a tractor and other goods 
which are stored in his garage.
AXA explained the policy limits were non-negotiable and so couldnt be increased. 
It said that as the policy hadnt started, Mr P could cancel it and be given a refund of 
the premiums.
Mr P thinks the policy limit should have been increased to reflect his circumstances 
and an explanation provided by AXA as to how the limit was set.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said its up to AXA to decide what 
level of cover it provides its customers. She was satisfied the policy information was 
available to Mr P at the time he purchased the policy. And as AXA had offered a full 
refund, she felt it had treated Mr P fairly. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed and so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
I know Mr P has concerns about how AXA sets its policy limits  but thats not 
something I can consider as part of this complaint. Ultimately, its up to insurers to 
decide what cover it provides its customers when insuring different risks.
AXA explained the policy wasnt bespoke, and that Mr and Mrs P should find 
alternative cover to ensure they werent under-insured. So, AXA hasnt acted unfairly 
by not altering the level of cover for garages and outbuildings.
Information regarding the policy limits was available to Mr and Mrs P at the time of 
taking out the policy, and so Im satisfied they had the information they needed to 
make an informed decision as to whether the policy was right for them.
Because cover hadnt started, AXA offered to cancel the policy and provide a refund 
of the premiums  which is what Id expect it to do. But I understand that despite their 
concerns regarding cover for outbuildings and garages, Mr and Mrs P have decided 
to continue with the policy. 
From what Ive seen AXA has treated Mr and Mrs P fairly and so I wont be asking it 
to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2021. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman