DRN-2776112
The complaint
Mr D complains that Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) unfairly 
recorded a default on his credit file. He would like it removed. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
Two conflicting reasons have been given as to how Mr D breached his agreement. 
However, its clear to me he did breach the terms by taking his car outside of the 
country for more than thirty days without MBFSs agreement.
The agreement Mr D signed states when the agreement has been breached a default 
notice will be issued and the agreement may be terminated. Ive seen the default 
notice MBFS sent dated 24 July 2018 which is correctly addressed. Mr D says he 
didnt get this- thats probably as it seems he was abroad at the time. I am not sure 
from MBFSs notes that Mr M made this clear when MBFS contacted him in July 
2018. I think it was Mr Ds responsibility to arrange to receive correspondence.
The default notice letter made it clear Mr D had until 14 August 2018 to settle his 
agreement and that a default might be placed on his credit file if he didnt do so. In 
the call notes he told MBFS he would call the following week to settle his agreement 
but didnt. MBFS then wrote to Mr D on 16 August 2018 terminating his agreement. I 
think MBFS followed its own processes correctly.
Mr D settled his agreement on 28 September 2018. I appreciate MBFSs terms say 
that it will give every opportunity to remedy a breach and, if so, the breach will be 
treated as having not occurred. However, Mr B agreed to settle his agreement the 
following week after MBFSs phone call in July 2018 but didnt do so. Nor did he 
settle the agreement in the month the default notice allowed him to do so. I think 
MBFS gave Mr D every opportunity to settle his agreement. But as he didnt do so in 
the time it allowed I think it was reasonable to put the default on Mr Ds credit file.
I appreciate Mr D might not find phone calls easy to understand but the terms of the 
agreement were in written form. There is no reference in MBFSs notes to indicate Mr 
D didnt follow the conversation it had in July 2018. And the default and termination 
letters were clear .I dont think MBFS is responsible for the fact Mr D didnt get them
I appreciate Mr D has told us he had had problems getting credit although he hasnt 
given us any evidence of this. But its important that credit files are accurate so I dont 
feel I can reasonably ask MBFS to amend Mr Ds
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman