DRN-2585341
The complaint
Miss G complains about the sale of her lifetime pet insurance policy by Alpha Underwriting 
Limited. She says she wasnt given clear information about increases in the cost of the 
insurance.
  
What happened
Miss G took out a lifetime pet insurance policy in 2018 and renewed it in 2019. When the 
policy came to be renewed again in January 2020, she complained that Alpha didnt send 
her renewal documents and she wasnt given adequate notice of an increase in the 
premiums (which went up from around £350 per year to over £1500). She said the increase 
was excessive. And she was unhappy that money was taken from her account without an 
explanation from Alpha of what the payments were for. She says it was only when she 
questioned what was going on that she realised the payments of £125 per month were the 
increased premium. She thought Alpha had cancelled her policy in error and then issued a 
new policy with a higher premium.
Miss G says she couldnt afford the new premiums and had to cancel the policy, leaving her 
pet without cover.
Alpha replied to Miss Gs complaint saying:
The renewal documents were sent to Miss G by an automated process in December 
2019.
Information sent to Miss G incorrectly included the documents for the previous 2019 
renewal.
The payments taken from Miss Gs bank account were the correct amounts for the 
new premium. It wasnt responsible for the amount charged, as the insurer sets the 
premium.
Her policy wasnt cancelled; it continued and any new claims would be honoured.
When Miss G brought her complaint to this service, Alpha questioned whether we could look 
into it. Alpha said the premium was set by the insurer and any complaint would have to be 
pursued against that business. Our investigator said that as Alpha sold the policy to Miss G, 
it was responsible for the information provided to her. She didnt think it had provided 
adequate information either when the policy was sold or when it was renewed. In particular, 
she said information about changes to the policy was very brief, and was hidden in the policy 
terms rather than being made clear to Miss G. 
The investigator said it would have been a shock for Miss G to find out that the premiums 
would increase steeply as her pet got older, and she might find it more difficult to get an 
alternative policy given her pets age and ongoing conditions. She asked Alpha to pay 
compensation of £500 to recognise the trouble and upset caused to Miss G. With regard to 
the late renewal documentation, Alpha had offered £90 compensation for this and the 
investigator thought that was fair.
In reply to the investigators view, Miss G said:
the basis of her complaint was that not only was the new premium excessive but 
also, she wasnt given the required notice, and Alpha couldnt explain the amount 
being taken from her bank account;
it was only when she spoke to a senior manager some months later (having given 
them the benefit of the doubt, and wishing to keep her insurance in place) that she 
realised this was the new premium;
she was forced to cancel the direct debit at that point, leaving her without any pet 
insurance.
She has asked if the £500 taken from her account will be reimbursed.
Alpha didnt accept the investigators view and requested an ombudsmans decision. It said 
any issue with the premium is the insurers responsibility and the only point that can be 
considered in this complaint is the late sending of the renewal documents, for which a 
moderate payment of around £100 would generally be fair, and it had offered £90 in respect 
of this. It doesnt think the proposed payment of £500 is fair.
Before proceeding with the decision, I explained to Alpha that while the insurer is 
responsible for deciding what premiums to charge, we are not looking at the premium itself, 
but rather the information provided to the consumer about this. And under the relevant rules, 
while an insurer is responsible for producing the information required, Alpha was responsible 
for the sale of the policy and for providing information to Miss G. So we could consider her 
concerns about the information provided and whether she had the information she needed to 
make an informed decision about buying the policy.
Alpha has confirmed that its happy to proceed on that basis, which it says wasn't clear from 
the initial query raised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not for me to consider in this complaint the level of premium set by the insurer. But, 
although the policy documents are based on the insurers terms and conditions, the policy 
was sold by Alpha and it had a responsibility to comply with the relevant rules about selling 
insurance. So Ive considered the information provided to Miss G, taking into account that 
Alpha should have provided enough information to enable her to make an informed decision 
about buying the policy, and any information provided should have been clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Having considered the information given at the time of sale and at renewal, I dont think the 
possible price journey was explained clearly. The sort of information about the long-term 
costs and limitations I would have expected to be given to Miss G would include:
The premium will increase each year at renewal as the pet gets older and vets fees 
increase.
It might also increase due to other factors, such as changes in insurance premium 
tax or increased understanding of the likelihood of a particular breed of animal 
needing to make a claim.
If a claim is made the premium could increase significantly at the next renewal.
The price could also increase even where are claims are not made.
If the policy isn't renewed, the cover will end, and it might be difficult to find a new 
provider that will cover any health problems or medical conditions the pet has already 
suffered from.The policy terms and conditions given to Miss G at the time of sale said the premium could 
be reviewed at renewal of the policy and might increase, decrease or stay the same, and this 
might happen as a result of claims, changes in the law or to make the policy terms clearer.
Having reviewed this, I dont think its clear enough about increases, and nor is it
prominent enough within the policy documents. This section is on page 19 of the policy
terms and conditions and its not flagged in the policy summary or sales letter. And it doesnt 
explain how significant the increases can be. 
On this basis, I dont think Alpha gave Miss G the clear information she needed.
As one of the selling points of the policy was that it would provide lifetime cover, the 
documents should have made sure Miss G understood the possible increases as her pet got 
older. After all, a lifetime policy will be more expensive than other policies and one of the 
main reasons Miss G was interested in taking it out was because she wanted her pet to be 
covered for the rest of its life.
I appreciate Miss G has benefited from having this policy and it has paid out more in claims 
than shes paid in in premiums. However, she didnt expect to be in the position she found 
herself in  with a policy increasing in cost to the point where she couldnt afford it anymore, 
and it was difficult to get alternative cover easily from another provider.
I agree that finding out the premiums are likely to continue increasing steeply as her pet gets 
older, and that she might find it more difficult to get another policy due to her pets age and 
ongoing health conditions, would have been quite a shock for Miss G. It was upsetting to 
suddenly find herself in this position. In these circumstances I agree it would be fair for Alpha 
to pay compensation of £500 to recognise the upset Miss G experienced as a result of the 
lack of clear information about the long-term cost implications of this type of policy. 
With regard to the renewal documents not being sent to Miss G when they should have 
been, I think Alpha has done enough to put this right. I dont think it needs to continue 
offering Miss G cover at the 2019 level. And I agree that the £90 offered was enough 
compensation for this issue. I understand Alpha hasnt already paid that sum to Miss G 
(since she didnt accept the offer), so it should now do so.
Miss G made a number of payments of the increased premium  in total, around £500  
before she cancelled her direct debit and the policy then ended. Shes asked if this money 
will be refunded to her. I appreciate she says the money was taken from her account without 
her knowing it was the new premium. Even though she may not have been given clear 
information about this, she would have known the money was being taken from her bank. 
Shes also explained that she wanted to keep the insurance in place while she sorted out 
what was happening. She had the benefit of the insurance  and made some claims on the 
policy  during that period. Taking all these circumstances into account, I dont think it would 
be fair to require Alpha to reimburse the payments Miss G made. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Alpha Underwriting Limited to pay 
compensation of £590 to Miss G in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused to her.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman