DRN-3135458
The complaint
Mrs R complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) gave her incorrect information 
about an early repayment charge on her mortgage. 
What happened
Mrs R says she telephoned Nationwide in January 2021 to advise them the property she 
was looking to purchase had fallen through, although she was still completing the sale of her 
home and repaying her mortgage with them. Mrs R says she explained to the advisor that 
she still wanted to transfer(port) the fixed rate mortgage product to a new mortgage with 
them, once shed found a new property she wanted to buy, to ensure the early repayment 
charge (ERC) that was due, was refunded. Mrs R says Nationwide didnt fully explain to her 
how the ERC refund would work and now wants Nationwide to refund the amount they 
charged.
Nationwide says during a telephone call in January 2021 their advisor informed Mrs R she 
needed to move into her new property within six months, to receive back the ERC that was 
due to be paid, after she sold her property later that month. Nationwide says they have 
correctly applied the ERC. 
Mrs R wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt Nationwides advisor had explained to Mrs R how the refund of the ERC would work, in a 
telephone call in January 2021 and she hadnt been misled. The investigator felt Nationwide 
had correctly applied the ERC due. 
Mrs R didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can see it would have been upsetting for Mrs R to have believed the ERC Nationwide 
charged in January 2021, would be refunded on the completion of her new mortgage and 
property purchase, only to find it wouldnt be. 
When looking at this complaint, I will consider if Nationwide should have refunded the ERC 
they charged Mrs R in January 2021.
Mrs Rs complaint centres around the fact when she telephoned Nationwide in January 
2021, it wasnt made clear to her that she had to complete on the new property she was 
hoping to purchase, within six months of redeeming her previous mortgage - if she wanted to 
port the mortgage product to that property, and have the ERC refunded. 
Its worth saying, porting a mortgage is when a lender agrees to allow their customers to 
transfer a mortgage product from one property to another, in most cases when moving 
home, without any ERCs. Unfortunately, what happened here was Mrs R couldnt complete 
the sale and purchase of the properties within 180 days of one another, which was a 
requirement of Nationwide to allow the porting of the mortgage and avoid the ERC. 
Mrs R says this wasnt explained to her when she telephoned Nationwide in January 2021, 
but Im not persuaded by her argument here. I say this as I have listened to the telephone 
call Mrs R refers, and during one point of the conversation, Nationwides advisor states the 
ERC will be refunded when Mrs R moves into her new property and Mrs R then asks if that 
must happen within six months, to which the advisor says yes. The advisor goes on to 
explain there is a six -month window for this to happen.
So, with that in mind I am satisfied it was made clear at that point the ERC refund would only 
happen within that timescale. Its fair to say it was clearly important to Mrs R that she could 
port the mortgage to avoid the ERC and if she was in any doubt, as the advisor pointed out 
in that telephone call in January 2021, Mrs R could contact her directly if she wanted any 
further help. 
Here Mrs R unfortunately, wasnt able to complete the purchase of a new property within the 
six month period needed and while I can understand that would have been frustrating for 
her, I am satisfied the application of the ERC was explained to her in the telephone 
conversation in January 2021.
While Mrs R will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied Nationwide have acted 
fairly here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman