DRN-1145538
 
The complaint
Ms P complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc, trading as Post Office Financial Services, 
provided her with incorrect information relating to the interest earned on a savings account 
she had with them. 
What happened
Ms P had an online savings account with The Post Office, opened in 2017. Interest was 
applied to that account on a monthly basis. 
In May 2019, Ms P called the Post Office to ask for information about interest shed earned 
on the account during the 2018/2019 tax year. She also asked to be sent a tax certificate. 
In this call, the Post Offices agent provided Ms P with details of four interest payments 
received, although one  received on 3 April 2018 for just under £110  was a payment that 
fell within the previous 2017/2018 tax year. However, Ms P included all four payments, as 
income, in her tax return she was completing for 2018/2019. This, accordingly, over-stated 
her income in the period, and Ms P tells us this resulted in her paying too much tax.
Ms P complained to the Post Office. Whilst the four amounts quoted by its agent were 
correct, it accepted the agent made a mistake providing details of the 3 April 2018 payment. 
It offered to pay Ms P £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused by this mistake. 
Ms P didnt think this was enough to compensate for the inconvenience shes suffered, and 
so brought her complaint to us. She said the compensation amount didnt even cover the 
extra tax she became liable to pay as a result of her over-declaration of income, or the 
amount of any the potential fines she may receive. However, one of our investigators 
thought the £50 compensation offered was enough in these circumstances. He agreed the 
Post Offices agent hadnt specified which tax year the 3 April 2018 payment would fall into 
but said their agent wasnt there to provide information relating to the completion of tax 
returns. And, that it was really Ms Ps decision how she chose to use that information.
Unhappy with this, Ms P asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I agree with the conclusions reached by 
our investigator, and for essentially the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Ive listened to the phone call between Ms P and the Post Office in May 2019. Its clear Ms P 
asked for a tax certificate to be sent to her for the 2018/2019 tax year (which she received 
some days later, containing the correct interest figures). She also asked to be given the 
interest-received figures for this period during the call - the Post Office agent gave details of 
four payments received (including the 3 April 2018 one). Its accepted by the Post Office that 
the 3 April 2018 figure shouldnt have been provided.  Whilst Ms P didnt specifically ask the agent to provide figures for the purpose of completing 
her tax return, I do think she was clear enough she wanted information relating to the 
2018/2019 tax year only. And given Ms P was speaking with the Post Offices savings 
department, I think she was entitled to expect the agent to have been aware what the 
2018/2019 tax year dates were. The agent made a clear mistake in effectively providing too 
much information.
But I dont think the Post Office is responsible for how Ms P then used the information given 
over the phone to complete her tax return. As Ive said, theres no dispute the agent provided 
details of too many interest payments - four instead of three, all with the dates of payment. 
But I think it would, or should, have been clear the payment on 3 April 2018 fell outside the 
2018/2019 tax year. And I think its for Ms P to ensure she gave the correct information to 
HMRC when completing her tax return.  
It follows I dont think the Post Office was at fault because interest received - clearly dated as 
falling into the earlier period  was mistakenly included in the 2018/2019 return. And I dont 
think the Post Office is responsible for any tax Ms P may have overpaid on the additional 
2017/2018 payment she mistakenly declared on her 2018/2019 tax return. 
Ms P also raises her concern regarding the possibility of fines being imposed by HMRC 
because of the wrong declarations made in her tax return. Our investigator addressed this 
the point, advising we only look at what happened, and not hypothetical situations. He is 
right to say this. And in any case, because here I dont think the Post Office was at fault for 
what information the tax return contained, its unlikely Id hold them responsible if any fines 
were levied because of any incorrect figures used. However, I do accept this matter has 
caused Ms P some distress and inconvenience.
So, in assessing whether the Post Offices offer of £50 for compensation is fair, Im only 
concerned with what happened during the May 2019 phone call, and not how Ms P used the 
information provided in that call to complete her tax return. Essentially, the Post Office agent 
made a mistake by providing Ms P with too much information. But I dont think the Post 
Office is responsible for the information Ms P included in her tax return, or any tax overpaid. 
So taking into account the circumstances and impact on Ms P, I think the Post Offices offer 
of £50 compensation is fair. I think it fairly recognises the inconvenience caused to Ms P by 
the Post Offices agent, mistakenly providing the extra information, in the phone call referred 
to. So I wont be asking the Post Office to increase that sum or do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Mark Evans
Ombudsman