DRN-3019720
The complaint
Mrs A is unhappy that Metro Bank Plc (Metro Bank) hasnt reimbursed all of the money she 
transferred to a scammer.
What happened
Mrs A was contacted by a scammer who was pretending to be from the government. They 
told her that her National Insurance number had been obtained by scammers who were 
renting apartments in her name, had opened bank accounts in her name and were using 
these accounts to launder money and carry out other illegal activity.
The scammers knew her National Insurance number, that she was divorced and named a 
colleague from work. They instructed her to check the phone number they were calling from 
was genuine by searching it online and provided badge numbers to prove they worked for 
the government.
The scammers told Mrs A she would need to move enough money to live on for three 
months to a safe account while all her other accounts were frozen. She was told a solicitor 
would be assigned to her and would visit her with two police officers to go through things in 
detail and give her access to her money.
Believing she was transferring money to a safe account, she transferred the following 
amounts to the scammers account on 22 February 2021:
10:36 am £1,500
10:59 am £1,500
11:13 am £2,000
Metro Bank is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Metro Bank says one of those exceptions applies in this case. It accepts it 
didnt provide adequate warnings to Mrs A at the time of payment and so agreed to refund 
her 50% of her loss (£2,500). 
But, Metro Bank feels Mrs A is partially liable for the loss as she didnt take reasonable steps 
to verify the scammer was who they said they were. It didnt think it was reasonable to 
believe that the safe account would be an account that wasnt in her name and with another 
bank to her Metro Bank account. It also didnt feel searching the phone number online was 
adequate checking, especially as the number wasnt an exact match, and that she shouldnt 
have accepted the badge number she was given without further verifying it somehow.
Mrs A was unhappy with Metro Banks response and asked us to consider the complaint. 
Our investigator upheld it as they thought Metro Bank shouldve fully reimbursed Mrs A for 
her loss. Metro Bank didnt accept this and maintained Mrs A didnt have a reasonable basis 
to believe what the scammers had told her and was therefore partially liable for the loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so Im satisfied that:
I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement under the 
CRM code apply in the circumstances of this case. Metro Bank should fairly and 
reasonably refund the remaining 50% of the money Mrs A lost.
Ms A has provided evidence to show the money was in a current account with a 
different bank before she transferred the money to her Metro account and on to the 
scammer. Its not clear how the money wouldve been used if Metro Bank had 
refunded it when it shouldve done, so Metro Bank should also pay interest at the rate 
of 8% on the money it shouldve refunded as set out below.
In all the circumstances of the complaint did Mrs A make the payment without having 
reasonable basis for believing that the person she transacted with was legitimate?
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
othe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
othe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
othe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here. Metro Bank 
considers Mrs A shares liability for the money lost. Whilst it accepts it didnt provide Ms A 
effective warnings in relation to the scam, it feels Ms A didnt have a reasonable basis for 
believing what she was told by the scammer. But, I dont think Metro Bank has been able to 
show Mrs A lacked a reasonable basis of belief when making these payments or that she 
failed to take the requisite level of care required for it choosing not to reimburse her under 
the terms of the CRM code. 
In reaching this decision, Ive paid regard to the scene that was set by the scammers for Mrs 
A and the impact I believe this reasonably had, in all the circumstances, on her thoughts and 
actions. 
Im also persuaded by what Mrs A has told this service about how this scam happened. Her 
recollections are consistent with what she told Metro Bank when she reported the scam and 
with what other victims of scams of this nature have described. And although she has given 
our service additional details, having listened to the call in which she initially reported the 
scam, Im satisfied this is because our investigator sufficiently questioned Mrs A about what 
she was told and how the scam came about. 
I dont think Metro Bank has been able to show Mrs A lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
because:
Mrs A has explained that an individual that worked with her accountant has in the 
past taken peoples personal information and used this to commit financial crimes. She understood that only someone who was somehow connected with her wages 
and tax information would have her National Insurance number, so she believed this 
person had stolen her information and committed the crimes described to her by the 
scammer. So I think she had reasonable cause to believe there was someone in 
connection with her, who reasonably couldve had access to the information 
scammers told her had been used, and committed some of the crimes described to 
her.
The scammers knew Mrs As National Insurance number, that shed been recently 
divorced and could name a work associate of hers. They also provided badge 
numbers and considerable details of the crimes they said had been committed using 
Mrs As information. Whilst Metro Bank has suggested Mrs A shouldve verified some 
of this information further, Im not persuaded by this. It seems scammers bombarded 
her with a lot of details that made them appear to have authority in the situation. They 
applied time pressure so Mrs A didnt have time to second guess or question what 
shed been told fully and went into detail about the seriousness of the situation she 
was in. Id also add that Im not sure how she couldve verified some of the 
information she was given as Metro Bank has suggested and it hasnt been clear 
about what it wouldve expected. Overall, I think the scammers knew personal 
information about Mrs A that she wouldnt expect anyone to have and that 
reasonably led her to believe they were who they said they were.
Mrs A was told she wouldnt have access to her own money for several months while 
the situation was resolved which is why she needed to transfer money to a safe 
account. Metro Bank has said this isnt believable. Its questioned why Mrs A would 
believe a safe account would be in a different name with a different bank. Metro 
Banks concern here appears to be that generally with a safe account scam, the 
scammer pretends to be from the victims own bank and tells them another account 
in their name has been set up, and this isnt what has happened here. But Id point 
out this is also a scam, not a legitimate scenario. Someone unfamiliar with this type 
of scam, such as Mrs A, wouldnt know that in a safe account scam the scammer 
typically pretends to be from their own bank. Mrs A was in a highly pressured 
situation, was afraid of what she was being told and was emotionally vulnerable 
having just lost her job. I dont think its unreasonable, that as a layperson with little 
understanding of how scams tend to be perpetrated, she didnt realise what she was 
being told about the safe account was untrue.
The scammers appear to have directed Mrs A to check the number they were calling 
from was genuine by searching it online, and although similar, the number the 
scammers were calling from was slightly different to the number she found online. 
Metro Bank has said its unreasonable she didnt recognise this as a concern. But the 
phone number wasnt the only thing the scammers were relying on. They also had 
the personal details Ive mentioned above. So even if she had concerns I think its 
likely the scammers wouldve been able to reassure her in other ways. This type of 
scam is designed to confuse and emotionally pressure individuals into acting quickly 
and trusting the scammer completely in order to protect themselves. Its not unusual 
in cases like these for victims to accept what theyre being told. Im satisfied that the 
CRM code takes into consideration that some scams, like this one, are sophisticated 
enough to persuade a reasonable person to act under instruction without always 
questioning or verifying things further.
Could Metro Bank have done anything to have prevented the scam?Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think Metro Bank should 
fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring its accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
And, in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Ive thought about the transactions in this case and whether I think they ought to have 
prompted further intervention from Metro Bank. Mrs A made three payments within 45 
minutes to a new beneficiary. I think it is concerning and potentially indicative of a scam for 
repeated transactions to the same beneficiary to be made in such a short space of time. 
Especially given the total of these transactions is substantial. And, for a greater amount than 
I can see Mrs A was making in the months leading up to them.
I think Metro Bank ought reasonably to have stopped the third payment and gotten in touch 
with Mrs A to verify it. And I wouldve expected it to have questioned her about this payment 
to find out what it was for and who it was to. Had it done so, Im satisfied that with its 
experience and knowledge of this type of scam Metro Bank reasonably ought to have 
uncovered the scam and prevented the final payment from being made.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Metro Bank needs to do the following:
Refund Mrs A the remaining £2,500 she lost as a result of the scam within 28 days of 
receiving notification of her acceptance of my final decision;
Interest at the rate of 8% per year on £1,500 (50% of the first two payments I dont 
think Metro Bank couldve reasonably prevented) from the date Metro Bank declined 
Mrs As claim under the CRM code (17 March 2021) to the date of settlement;
Interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on £1,000 (50% of the last payment as I 
think Metro Bank reasonably couldve prevented this from being made) from the date 
of payment (22 February 2021) to the date of settlement.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Metro Bank Plc to pay Mrs A in 
line with the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman