DRN-4313497
Complaint
Mrs E is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) changed the way it charged her 
for using the overdraft facility she had on her account without notifying her in advance.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Es concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had 
done anything wrong or treated Mrs E unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mrs E disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Es 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
amount Barclays charged Mrs E for using her overdraft was fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with. 
In 2019, Barclays, in line with most banks, decided to change the way that it was charging 
for overdrafts. There would no longer be a distinction between arranged and unarranged 
overdrafts and it was moving away from charging a daily fee for using an overdraft. Barclays 
was entitled to make such a change as long as it provided its customers with notice.
As far as I can see, Barclays wrote to Mrs E in January 2020. This letter informed Mrs E that 
from 22 March 2010, the interest and fee free amount of her overdraft would be reducing 
from £200 to £100 and shed be charged interest at 35% EAR if she was overdrawn by more 
than £100. Barclays also followed up this letter with a further letter entitled About your 
Arranged Overdraft Facility, which set out the full terms and conditions of the Mrs Es 
overdraft in September 2020.  
I know Mrs E says she didnt receive any letters from Barclays in advance of the change. But 
the letters were correctly addressed using Mrs Es address details. So while its possible  
Mrs E may not have received the letters, or paid much attention perhaps because she didnt 
realise the significance at the time, Barclays did what it was required to. 
And I dont think it acted unfairly as it appears to have taken reasonable steps to notify Mrs E 
of the amount that shed have to pay to use her overdraft in advance of this changing. 
Its possible Mrs E may be unhappy that this communication was sent to her by post. But 
while certain documents such as statement alerts can be sent by email, it is good practice 
for financial firms to send formal correspondence such as notice of a variation in the terms of 
an account by post. So I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly in this regard.   
Overall and having considered everything, while I do appreciate Mrs Es strength of feeling 
on this matter, I dont think that Barclays has treated her unfairly. It notified her of the change 
in the way that it was charging her for using her overdraft in advance of this happening and it 
charged her in accordance with these new terms. 
So Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mrs Es complaint. I realise that this will be very 
disappointing for Mrs E. But I hope that shell understand the reasons for my decision and at 
least feel that her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman