DRN-4027360
The complaint
Miss E complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) deferred her 
Selected Retirement Date (SRD) without her asking it to. And that this led to her missing the 
opportunity to transfer her Free-Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) policy 
without it being subject to a Market Value Reduction (MVR). She also complains that 
Prudential didnt advise her that her requested transfer value had to be carried out in 
advance of her SRD. She felt she simply had to inform it of her intentions by that date.
What happened
Miss E has a FSAVC policy with Prudential which started on 7 August 1991. It is invested in 
a With-Profits Fund. It initially had an SRD a month after Miss Es 60th birthday. But Miss E 
deferred this to her 62nd birthday. 
Prudentials call notes record that in March 2020 Miss E called it to discuss drawdown and 
options at retirement. Prudential provided transfer and fund values during the call. 
Prudentials call notes also record that it explained to Miss E that she could defer the plan. 
I understand Prudential had a systems error which caused problems for some of its 
policyholders in early 2022. Miss E was affected by the error. She complained about the 
error and about how Prudential handled the resolution of the problem. Prudential upheld the 
complaint.  But as the experience had been extremely upsetting for Miss E, she said she 
resolved to transfer her policy from Prudential as soon as it matured. 
Miss E asked Prudential for policy information, which it provided in a 16 February 2022 
letter. As at the date of the letter, the policy had a fund value of £132,407.63. The Final 
Bonus was £89,007.37. And the MVR was £7,688.26. This meant that the total transfer 
value, which wasnt guaranteed, was £213,726.74. 
Prudential also provided Miss E with additional policy information including a leaflet about 
the MVR: Market Value Reduction - a clear explanation. And gave information about the 
Final Bonus and the With-Profits Fund. 
Prudential sent Miss E a retirement options pack on 24 June 2022, as she was approaching 
her planned retirement date. The pack provided information on the available options for the 
policy in retirement. The letter said that the policy had a value of £135,538.58, excluding the 
Final Bonus and any MVR. It said the estimated Final Bonus was £106,473.41. It gave the 
total pension pot value, including Final Bonus and MVR, as £242,011.99. And explained that 
the total pension pot value was the amount it wouldve paid if Miss E had chosen to take her 
benefits with it or transferred to another provider on 24 June 2022. The letter said that the 
value wasnt guaranteed.
The letter also explained the MVR. It said this was an amount it might deduct from certain 
withdrawals or switches from the With-Profits Fund. It also said:
Its our way of being fair to all of our with-profits customers. MVRs help make sure that 
everyone gets a return based on the earnings of the With-Profits Fund over the time their 
payments have been invested in it. An MVR would not apply if you take benefits at your SRD 
or due to any payments as a result of your death. MVRs can change from day to day. We 
havent applied an MVR when calculating this value. 
The letter also referenced the MVR leaflet for more information. And, under the What you 
need to do next section, stated that:
If we don't hear from you before your current retirement date, well extend your plans 
retirement date to age 75.
Miss E called Prudential on 26 June 2022. She said she wanted to ask what the process for 
transferring her pension was. She said that the customer service agent told her she needed 
to find a pension company to take the funds and that company would arrange the transfer. 
She said she was told that the transfer would be handled by the new company. 
After the call, Prudential issued a letter dated 28 June 2022 with policy information as at that 
date. It said the fund value was £135,939.90. And the estimated Final Bonus was 
£106,819.44. It also said: 
A Market Value Reduction (MVR) doesn't currently apply to benefits held in the With-Profits 
Fund but may apply in the future. We guarantee not to apply an MVR in certain 
circumstances e g. death or your selected retirement age.
And further explained the MVR as follows: 
If the value of the assets underlying your plan is less than the value of your plan including 
bonuses, we may deduct a Market Value Reduction (MVR) if you:
decide to retire before or after the date you reach your selected retirement age/date, 
as specified in your plan literature
move the value of your plan to another pension plan and/or
switch out of the With-Profits Fund.
An MVR is designed to balance the interests of continuing investors with those who want to 
cash-in their plan.
This letter also provided more detail about MVRs by again including the MVR leaflet. 
Miss E said she then contacted a potential receiving scheme (provider A) for the transfer on 
12 July 2022 to ask it to perform the transfer. She said she filled in a form and left it to them. 
And that she wasnt aware of any urgency for the transfer to complete, as shed made 
Prudential aware of her intentions. 
Prudentials call notes from 28 July 2022 state that it spoke with Miss E as she was looking 
for a transfer value. It said it gave her a value of £243,607.43 with £0 MVR.
Miss E said that provider A contacted her in October 2022 to tell her it couldnt accept the 
transfer. 
Prudentials call notes record that on 21 October 2022 Miss E called to tell it she had 
planned to transfer her policy, but that the receiving scheme didnt offer the benefits that it 
did. The notes stated that when Miss E asked Prudential about her SRD, it said that Miss E 
would auto defer. The notes also record that Miss E was still looking to transfer and would be back in touch.
Prudential wrote to Miss E on 28 October 2022 to tell her that her 2022 SRD had now 
passed. And that as shed not told it when she intended to retire, itd assumed that it would 
be sometime in the future. It said itd updated its records with a retirement age of 75. And 
said that Miss E must: take some action and reach a decision about your retirement income 
before your 75th birthday. The letter also said that Miss E could still choose to take her 
retirement benefits at any time before her 75th birthday. 
I understand that Miss E spoke to Prudential about the 28 October 2022 letter. She said 
Prudential told her that if she wanted to transfer the policy now, an MVR would be applied. 
And that this would be a deduction of £18,232. She felt that the letter had stated that 
because shed not been in touch with Prudential, her policy had been automatically updated 
with a retirement age of 75. 
Miss E felt she had been in touch with Prudential, so she called it to dispute the 28 October 
2022 letter. She said Prudential told her that she hadnt responded when the policy had 
matured. She said she had told Prudential that she wanted to transfer the policy. 
Prudentials call notes from 7 November 2022 said that Miss E wanted to discuss the fact 
that her SRD had been automatically deferred to age 75. And to ask if it could be brought 
back down. Prudential told her it couldnt, but that she could still take the money from her 
policy at any time. It also said that it told Miss E that because she was invested in the With-
Profits fund an MVR might apply if she took the money from her policy before her SRD. The 
call notes also recorded that when the £18,232 MVR was quoted Miss E was quite shocked 
by the fact that she would now need to wait to age 75 to be guaranteed to not get any MVR 
at all on a claim. It said it explained that the MVR comes and goes as time goes on, so it 
might not apply at the point Miss E cashed in her policy. The call notes also stated that 
Prudential had told Miss E about the potential for her SRD to be moved to age 75 in its 24 
June 2022 letter. 
Miss E made a complaint during the call on 7 November 2022. And also sent a letter of 
complaint to Prudential dated 22 November 2022. She said that when shed been told by 
provider A that it wouldnt accept her transfer, shed contacted it on 21 October 2022. And 
that shed been told by the customer service agent that her wish to transfer had been noted 
in her details. She felt that when Prudential had told her that her pension had been 
reinvested until her 75th birthday, it had ignored her transfer request. She also said that 
although her complaint had been raised in early November 2022, Prudential hadnt 
contacted her within the five days it said it would. 
Prudential issued its response to the complaint on 28 December 2022. It didnt think it had 
done anything wrong regarding the change of SRD. It said that Miss Es retirement date had 
been put back to her 75th birthday as her transfer hadnt completed by her SRD. And that it 
had told her, in its 24 June 2022 letter, that this would happen if she didnt confirm a new 
SRD. 
Prudential acknowledged that Miss E had told it she wanted to transfer out, and that it had 
received contact regarding the potential transfer to provider A after her SRD had elapsed. 
But said that as the transfer didnt proceed, Miss Es SRD was automatically deferred in line 
with the policy terms.
Prudential acknowledged that it hadnt responded to Miss Es complaint the way it should 
have. So it upheld that part of the complaint. And sent Miss E a cheque for £75 in 
recognition of the poor service. Miss E wasnt happy with this response. So on 19 December 2022 she wrote again to 
Prudential. She said shed received a letter from Prudential dated 6 December 2022 to 
transfer her pension. And questioned whether the complaint procedure had finished. She 
said she hadnt been notified of any resolution. And asked what had prompted the transfer 
letter.
Miss E said she didnt want her policy to be reinvested. And that shed told Prudential that 
before August 2022.
Prudential issued a further complaint response to Miss E on 6 January 2023. It said it had 
only received the 19 December 2022 letter on 28 December 2022. And that this was why it 
hadnt covered the new points in its first complaint response. 
Prudential upheld the complaint about the unrequested transfer letter. And said that Miss E 
should disregard the transfer documents shed been sent. It said that its servicing team had 
misinterpreted Miss Es 22 November 2022 letter and issued the transfer document on the 
basis that shed discussed finding a new provider and the attempted transfer to provider A. It 
apologised for the error and the confusion caused.
Miss E brought her complaint to this service in early January 2023. She felt she shouldve 
been given a chance to find another company to take the transfer before her SRD was 
automatically changed. She said she felt trapped within her current situation and forced to 
accept an MVR. She said she wasnt told that there was a time limit on her transfer request. 
She wanted to transfer her policy and not have to accept the MVR. Miss E also said that 
shed found the situation extremely upsetting. And that her dealings with Prudential had 
contributed to her poor mental health.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. While he recognised the impact 
this situation had had on Miss E, he didnt think Prudential had acted unfairly in extending 
her Es retirement date.
Miss E didnt agree with our investigator.  She made the following points:
- Shed called Prudential on 26 June 2022 in response to its 24 June 2022 letter 
asking her to contact it for next steps. She said that although our investigator felt 
Prudential considered shed not responded, her phone call was the response to say 
she didnt want the policy reinvested. So she was shocked when Prudential told her 
that her policy had been reinvested until her 75th birthday.
- Based on her recollection of the 26 June 2022 call, Miss E said shed told Prudential 
she wanted to transfer her fund. And asked it what she needed to do. She said she 
was simply asking for administrative information on the process, not financial advice. 
And that her recollection was that the phone call ended with her confirming with 
Prudential that all she needed to do was to find a company to move the money to. 
And that it would contact Prudential without her needing to do anything further. She 
felt shed adequately informed Prudential of her intentions. And that it had a 
responsibility to inform her exactly what it meant by contact us in its 24 June 2022 
letter. She felt that for her, it meant ringing and telling Prudential her instructions. But 
that it meant something different, which wasnt clear to her, to Prudential. 
- She hadnt been told that the transfer had a deadline. She felt that shed had to 
contact Prudential in advance of her SRD. And that shed told it of her intention not to 
reinvest. 
- Miss E felt that her policy wasnt subject to an MVR at her SRD. And that as it had now been reinvested, against her wishes, it was now subject to an MVR. She felt this 
was a penalty which Prudential had imposed on her by proceeding against her 
instructions.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will be disappointing to Miss 
E. Ill explain my reasons for it. 
I first considered Miss Es complaints about the MVR.
MVR
I can totally understand why Miss Es original complaint, from early 2022, made her feel 
uncertain about using Prudential as her pension provider. In its final response to that 
complaint, Prudential acknowledged that: These problems do not reflect well on us and I 
fully understand the loss of confidence you must feel in our ability to provide a satisfactory 
level of service.  And while I acknowledge that Miss E feels that shes now unable to 
transfer her policy to another provider as her transfer would be reduced by an MVR, I 
consider that this was always the case. Ill explain why. 
First, Ill give a little background on the With-Profits Fund Miss E is invested in. And what the 
MVR aims to do.
Prudential explained, in its 16 February 2022 letter to Miss E, how its With-Profits Fund, in 
which Miss E is invested, operates. 
It said:
We invest in a broad mix of investment types. We invest in property, UK and international 
stocks and shares, cash, and corporate and government bonds. Bonuses are how you get 
your share of the profits.
It then when on to explain how the two different types of bonus  regular and final  are 
added. And said that the aim of the With-Profits Fund is to: smooth some of the extreme 
highs and lows of short-term investment performance in order to provide a more stable 
return. We do this by holding back some of the investment returns in good years with the aim 
of using this to support bonus rates in the years where the investment returns are lower.
It said that although such smoothing offered some protection against bad market conditions, 
it couldnt always stop the value of a policy reducing if investment returns had been low.
Prudential then went on to explain the MVR. It said that when a policyholder takes money 
out of the With-Profits Fund, it might apply an MVR to reduce the fund value. It said it would 
do this if the value of the underlying assets were worth less than the value of the policy, 
including all bonuses. 
The use of MVRs is common. They effectively allow a provider to determine a policyholder's 
fair share of the value of the With-Profits Fund when they decide to cash in their policy. 
MVRs are usually applied when theres been a reduction in the value of the With-Profits Fund to make sure that the surrendering policyholder doesn't receive more than their fair 
share of the actual value. Theyre generally intended as a short-term measure that will be 
removed once a provider feels that its funds have recovered sufficiently. And their 
application is usually at a providers discretion, as long as its in line with the terms and 
conditions of the product. 
Prudential also provided Miss E with a two-page leaflet, giving details about when an MVR 
would or wouldnt apply, on a number of occasions, as detailed above. This clearly stated 
that an MVR may apply if a policyholder transferred to another provider. 
However, the leaflet also said:
For pension plans, we guarantee not to apply an MVR at the selected/normal retirement 
date, as selected in your pension plan literature, or at the Anticipated Annuitisation Age for 
relevant Income Drawdown plans.
I can understand why Miss E considered that she wouldve been able to transfer her policy 
to provider A, without the application of any MVR, as long as she did so on her SRD. I say 
this because the MVR leaflet could be interpreted as stating that an MVR wouldnt be 
applied at the SRD. But this is not the case. 
I say this because although Prudential guarantees not to apply an MVR on any money it 
pays out at a policyholders SRD, this only means if the benefits from that policy were taken 
by a policyholder at that time, for example by using the fund value to buy an annuity. The 
guarantee not to apply an MVR doesnt apply at any time if the policy is transferred to 
another provider. While I appreciate that this wording could be clearer, Im satisfied that the 
two-page MVR leaflet did also state that an MVR may apply on the transfer of a policy.
I can see that Miss E originally felt that her fund wouldnt be subject to an MVR if she 
transferred it at her SRD. And that after the call on 26 June 2022, she didnt believe there 
was any rush to transfer her policy, as she felt shed met Prudentials conditions for an MVR 
not to be applied. But, having listened in detail to that call, I dont agree that Prudential ever 
told her that an MVR wouldnt apply if her transfer was carried out at a certain date.
I say this because Miss E told Prudential the following:
The clarity Im trying to get is do I start that before or after [my SRD]. I understand theres 
Market Value Reductions and whatever if I take the money early.
And Prudential said:
[Your SRD] doesnt factor into this. There can be MVRs as you say. 
Based on what Ive said above, I cant fairly uphold Miss Es complaint that her policy wasnt 
subject to an MVR at her SRD, but that it now will be, because Prudential automatically 
deferred her SRD to her 75th birthday. I say this because an MVR wouldve always been 
applied on transfer, regardless of when it took place.  
I also cant fairly uphold Miss Es complaint that she hadnt been told that the transfer had a 
deadline. I say this because it didnt have a deadline. Whether she had been able to 
complete the transfer before, on, or after her SRD wouldnt have made any difference to 
whether an MVR would be applied. It wouldve always applied. However, the amount of MVR 
would vary over time. And may be £0. 
As Prudential told Miss E during its 7 November 2022 call with her, MVRs do change over time. Therefore it may be possible for Miss E to transfer her policy to another provider when 
the MVR is set to £0.
I next considered Miss Es complaint that Prudential unfairly changed her SRD to her 75th 
birthday.
SRD
Prudential sent Miss E a retirement options pack on 24 June 2022, as she was approaching 
her SRD at this point. Miss E spoke to Prudential a little before her SRD. And told it that she 
intended to transfer her policy to another provider. Given shed done this, Miss E felt shed 
made Prudential aware of her chosen retirement option. 
Prudential said that while it acknowledged that Miss E had been in the process of 
transferring her policy, as the transfer hadnt completed by Miss Es SRD, it had to defer her 
retirement date. 
Miss E felt that as Prudential was aware of her intended transfer, it shouldve waited for it to 
complete. And that it had acted unfairly when it instead deferred her SRA to her 75th 
birthday. She felt she shouldve been given a chance to find another company to take the 
transfer before her SRD was automatically changed. 
I can see that Prudential had already told Miss E what would happen if her SRD went by 
without her policy being accessed, for example both its 9 December 2020 and 24 June 2022 
letters to Miss E, stated:
If we do not hear from you before a plan's retirement date has passed, we'll extend that 
plan's retirement date to your 75th birthday.
As our investigator said, as soon as a policy goes past its SRD, it can no longer be a part of 
the pension scheme it had been invested in. So if Prudential hadnt extended Miss Es SRD 
when the transfer hadnt completed, it wouldve had to disinvest Miss Es fund from the 
financial markets it had been invested in. If this had happened, Prudential wouldnt have 
been able to continue to administer the policy in a way that was beneficial to Miss E. This is 
because if itd been disinvested, it wouldve no longer benefited from investment growth. 
Miss E stated on the 26 June 2022 call that: I dont need the money but Id like to put it into 
a pension fund so it continues to grow. So Im satisfied that in taking the action it did, 
Prudential acted in her interests. 
As Im also satisfied that the terms and conditions of Miss Es policy required Prudential to 
defer her SRD in these circumstances, I cant fairly uphold this part of the complaint. 
Miss E also felt that shed told Prudential of her intention not to reinvest her policy. Having 
listened to the 26 June 2022 call, Im not persuaded that she ever did tell Prudential this. 
While I appreciate she expected to transfer her policy away from Prudential, the transfer 
didnt go ahead. So Miss Es policy was never disinvested. So Ive no evidence that 
Prudential did anything wrong here.
Overall, while I can see that theres been some misunderstandings which have caused Miss 
E considerable upset, I cant fairly say that Prudential has done anything wrong. So I dont 
uphold the complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman