DRN-4196072
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him a fee-paying
Tech Pack, that was added to his account in May 2016.
Mr M says that the Tech Pack was added to his account without his consent.
What happened
Barclays says that it didnt think that the Tech Pack had been mis-sold.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the Tech Pack had 
been mis-sold either. 
Mr M disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint about the sale of Mr Ms Tech Pack. And 
having considered everything, Im unable to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr M has complained that the Tech Pack was mis-sold because it was added to his account 
without his consent.
To explain, the Tech Pack was not actually sold to Mr M. Instead, Barclays has explained 
that it had decided to withdraw Mr Ms existing Current Account Plus (CAP) packaged 
account and so wrote to all account holders to explain that their accounts would be changed 
to a fee-free account. However, to ensure existing account holders were able to continue to 
receive some similar levels of insurance cover i.e. mobile phone insurance, Barclays added 
a Tech Pack to the affected accounts. Barclays gave all account holders the option to opt out 
of adding the Tech Pack to their account, should they no longer want or need such 
insurance cover.
So in the circumstances, I understand that Barclays was essentially replacing the existing 
insurance policy (mobile phone insurance) that Mr M was already paying for under the CAP, 
with similar mobile phone cover under the Tech Pack. However, when making such a 
change to an account, Barclays was required to clearly explain what changes were taking 
place and to also give all of the affected account holders enough notice of the changes, so 
that they could consider their options.
Barclays has provided copies of the migration letters it says it sent to Mr M. The first letter 
was dated 4 March 2016. This explained that Mr Ms account would be changed to a fee-free 
account with a Tech Pack added, and it also explained the cost of the Tech Pack would be 
£9.50 per month - which is an increase from £6.50 per month that hed previously been 
paying for the CAP. It also explained that, if Mr M chose to opt out of adding the Tech Pack 
to his account, his overdraft limit would remain unchanged - but no part of it would be free to 
use. 
Barclays has provided another letter that it had sent to Mr M on 13 May 2016. This 
confirmed that Mr Ms account had changed to a fee-free account with a Tech Pack added. It 
also reminded Mr M that he could remove the Tech Pack at any time.
Having looked through these letters, I think Barclays made it reasonably clear what changes 
were occurring on Mr Ms account and also what options were available to him, if he no 
longer needed mobile phone insurance or if he was unhappy with the changes taking place 
on his account. 
Both of these letters look to be correctly addressed. So, I think they were more likely than 
not received by Mr M - although given how long ago they were sent, I can understand if Mr 
M now does not recall receiving them. 
But overall, Im satisfied that Barclays did inform Mr M of the changes that were made to his 
packaged account; his options were clearly set out; and that he was given a reasonable 
amount of time in which to contact Barclays in the event that he no longer wanted his 
account, or he didnt want the Tech Pack added to his account going forwards. 
As such, in the circumstances, I dont think its reasonable to require Barclays to refund the 
Tech Pack fees that Mr M paid since May 2016.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman