DRN-1619052
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to him in 
an irresponsible manner. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision relating to this complaint in January 2020. In that decision I 
explained why I didn't think Mr C's complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but in summary I said;
Mr C had been given five loans by Sunny between April and June 2017. Mr C had 
successfully repaid his first four loans, but a balance remained outstanding on his 
final loan that Sunny had transferred to a third party. I explained the relevant 
regulations that Sunny needed to follow when lending to Mr C, and that at different 
stages of their relationship different levels of checks might be appropriate. 
I thought that the checks Sunny had done before agreeing the first four loans had 
been sufficient. And although I thought Sunny should have done more checks before 
agreeing loan 5 I hadn't received enough information from Mr C for me to conclude 
that loan shouldn't have been given to him. So I didn't think Sunny had been wrong to 
give Mr C any of the loans.
I asked Sunny and Mr C to provide me with any additional comments or evidence 
following receipt of my provisional decision.
Sunny has said that, although it doesn't agree with the approach I have suggested it should 
have taken at the time of loan 5, it agrees with the overall outcome of my provisional 
decision. Mr C hasn't provided us with anything further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive once more considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I acknowledge that Sunny doesn't agree with what I have said it should have done at the 
time of loan 5. But it hasn't provided me with any arguments why it disagrees with that part 
of my provisional decision. I still consider that, given the stage it had reached in its lending 
relationship with Mr C, it would have been proportionate at that time to independently verify 
Mr Cs true financial position. 
But I don't have the information I would need to establish what those additional checks 
would have shown. And since Mr C hasn't provided me with any further evidence or 
comments I see no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
It follows that I cannot conclude that Sunny was wrong to give any of the loans to Mr C. 
So I dont uphold his complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Elevate Credit International Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman