DRN-3959936
The complaint
Mr S complains about multiple errors made by Barclays Bank UK PLC when reporting a lost 
debit card.
What happened
On 13 May 2022, Mr S called Barclays to report his debit card lost. He was told the lost card 
would be blocked and that a new card would be issued and sent to his home address.
By 20 May Mr S hadnt received the replacement card so he called Barclays again to 
question why he hadnt received the card. The adviser told Mr S that the card had been sent 
by accident to his previous address that he moved from over a year ago, but that the card 
would be blocked, and a replacement sent to his current home address. Mr S raised a 
complaint with Barclays.
The next day Mr S says he received the debit card  requested on 13 May 2022, at his 
current home address, despite being told it had been sent to his previous address. But as 
hed been told the card had been blocked, he didnt attempt to use it and waited for the other 
new debit card to arrive. 
Around a week later Mr S received a new credit card rather than a debit card. He says he 
thought it may have just been a coincidence that he received a new credit card and so 
carried on waiting for the debit card. 
On 31 May Mr S called Barclays to say he was still waiting to receive the replacement debit 
card. He was told that a replacement credit card had been sent out in error rather than a 
debit card. And that the debit card hadnt been blocked so he was ok to use it. Mr S raised 
complaint with Barclays about poor service received and incorrect information he was given.
Barclays responded to Mr Ss complaint in two parts. In their final response letter of              
31 May 2022, Barclays agreed that Mr S had received a poor service and credited his 
account with £25 as an apology. And confirmed that theyd updated Mr Ss home address. 
However, Barclays had mistakenly investigated the complaint in relation to his credit card 
account and not his current account.
In Barclayss final response on 11 August 2022, they acknowledged that theyd incorrectly 
logged his complaint under his credit card account. And therefore, the information in their 
previous response was incorrect. They confirmed that the address for both his credit card 
and current account were now up to date, and that his debit card was never blocked, even 
though he was told it was  so he was free to use it.
Unhappy with Barclays multiple service failures and insufficient response to his complaint, 
he referred his concerns to our service. One of our investigators considered Mr Ss 
complaint and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained that Barclays had 
accepted the errors made. But he said although Mr S had been incorrectly told the debit card 
had been blocked, he did have alternative means of accessing money and using his bank 
account. He also said that Barclays only held an incorrect address for his credit card and not 
for his current account. He also stated that Barclays had in fact paid Mr S £50 (two lots of 
£25 were credited to Mr Ss current account on 20 May 2022) and he thought this was fair 
and reasonable to resolve the complaint. 
Mr S rejected the investigators findings and asked for a final decision as he said the 
investigators findings were one sided and that £50 wasnt enough considering the number of 
errors made. So, the complaint has been passed to me and I issued a provisional decision.
What I said in my provisional decision dated 23 January 2023
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided a timeline of events, and these timelines are broadly the same. 
Theres been several errors which Barclays have acknowledged. So, its not in dispute that 
Barclays have provided   Mr S with poor service in relation to his lost debit card. What I need 
to decide is whether Barclays have done enough to put the situation right.
Ive considered the errors made by Barclays to be:
They told Mr S incorrect information on several occasions.
They didnt update Mr Ss address on both his credit card and current account when 
he asked them to do this over a year ago.
They told him his debit card was blocked when it wasnt.
They incorrectly sent a replacement credit card rather than a debit card.
They told Mr S theyd sent a replacement card to an incorrect address.
Barclays is the expert, and I wouldnt have expected Mr S to have doubted any of the 
information he was given when he called Barclays about the replacement debit card. Mr S 
has provided evidence of the multiple calls he made to Barclays to try and get this matter 
resolved given the confusion caused by the incorrect information given to him. I wouldnt 
have expected a customer to have to go to such lengths when making a straightforward 
request as asking for a replacement card.
Ive read the call transcript from the call Mr S made to Barclays on 20 May 2022. In this call 
Mr S says hed found his lost card but didnt attempt to use it given hed been told it had 
been blocked. Barclays have said that he was able to use it as they hadnt blocked the card 
when he called them on 13 May 2022, and that hed since been using the card from when 
hed found it.
Barclays have suggested that Mr S was using his debit card from around 20 May 2022. Ive 
looked at Mr Ss bank statements from 13 May 2022 until 11 August 2022 when Barclays 
issued their second final response to Mr Ss complaint. Im satisfied that there is no debit 
card activity until 10 June 2022. Any transactions between May 2022 and June 2022 werent 
related to Mr Ss debit card. So, Im satisfied Mr S wasnt aware he had access to his current 
account using his debit card until he withdrew cash from his account on 10 June 2022. 
Therefore, Mr S was without a debit card for a period of around four weeks. I appreciate that 
he had alternative means in which to access his account. But Mr S should not have been in 
that position. Its more likely than not if things had gone as they should have, a replacement 
card wouldve been received by Mr S within a week. So even though Mr S hasnt made a 
financial loss, he has been considerably inconvenienced.I dont agree that £50 is a fair reflection of the trouble Mr S went through to get a new card. 
For the reasons Ive explained, Im provisionally think a total of £150 is a fairer reflection for 
the number of errors made by Barclays and the inconvenience and confusion this has 
caused Mr S.
Barclays responded to accept my provisional decision and agreed to pay Mr S a further 
£100. Mr S responded and also confirmed his acceptance of the provisional decision and 
that he had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings and havent provided any further 
information for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion reached in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. I require Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to award Mr S an additional £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
hes been caused, taking the total amount of compensation to £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman