DRN-2955656
The complaint
Ms W complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited has handled her claim on her buildings
insurance.
Throughout the claim and complaint Ms W has been represented by her father and a
solicitor. For ease of reading, all references to Ms W include the actions of these
representatives.
What happened
Ms W is the leaseholder of a flat. The block of flats is covered by an insurance policy
provided by Aviva.
In July 2018 there was a problem with the canal that runs alongside the block of flats. A wall
of the canal cracked and caused flooding. This caused cracks to appear in Ms Ws flat as
well as problems with the floor dropping. She raised the problem with the managing agent of
the building and made a claim on the insurance.
Aviva appointed a loss adjuster who attended the flat and carried out some temporary
repairs. However in the months that followed there was very little progress and Ms W didnt
receive updates from Aviva.
Due to concerns around safety, Ms W thought Aviva should offer alternative accommodation
under the policy. However, Aviva said this wouldnt be offered as the flat wasnt
uninhabitable. In June 2019 Ms W made the decision to move out of the flat.
Ms W made a complaint to Aviva. She said she thought it was unreasonable that alternative
accommodation hadnt been offered. And she was unhappy with the progress of the claim
and the lack of updates.
Aviva didnt uphold her complaint. It said the policy only provides for alternative
accommodation when a property is uninhabitable. And this usually means where there is no
running water, or access to cooking facilities. It said this isnt the case for Ms W. It also said
the claim was taking a long time to progress as the problem with the canal needed to be
fixed first and this required a complex programme of monitoring at times when it was both
emptied and full.
Ms W didnt think this was fair. She said she had been in the process of selling the flat when
the incident occurred and now it was unsaleable. And it seemed the monitoring and repairs
of the canal would take a significant period of time which means she wont be able to sell her
property as she intended. Further, she said the damage to her flat was having an impact on
her health and wellbeing which is why she had moved out. She said Aviva hadnt been to the
flat to inspect it before saying it wasnt uninhabitable, so she didnt think this was a fair
conclusion. She brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator explained that we would only be able to look at part of Ms Ws complaint.
She said that as the insurance policy is in joint names of all leaseholders, any issues that
affect more than just Ms W would require the authority of additional leaseholders. However
she said she was able to look at whether Aviva had acted fairly by not providing alternative
accommodation. And she agreed the property wasnt uninhabitable, so Aviva were fair not to
provide it.
Ms W didnt agree. She also didnt think it was fair that she would need to get the authority of
other leaseholders in order to pursue part of her complaint. She asked for the complaint to
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I considered the details and decided I would be able to review matters relating to the delays 
to the claim as well as the alternative accommodation. In July 2021 I issued a provisional 
decision, which said:
I can see that this has been a very distressing time for Ms W. She hasnt been able to sell 
her flat as intended and has instead been living out of her home for a long time. However 
subsidence claims by their nature can be distressing and take a long time to resolve. When 
deciding this complaint I have to look at the actions of Aviva and its agents, rather than the 
impact of the claim itself.
I understand the claim is still ongoing, however as part of this complaint I have only
considered matters up until Aviva issued its final response in January 2020.
Alternative Accommodation
Ms Ws policy provides alternative accommodation in some circumstances. The policy states
this is provided:
Where any Residential Unit cannot be lived in or if access to it is denied as a result of
Damage
So on occasion where Ms Ws flat cannot be lived in then Aviva would provide an
alternative place to live. At this service we would generally consider a property cannot be
lived in when there are not kitchen, bathroom or toilet facilities or if it is unsafe.
I have considered the conditions in Ms Ws flat, and I dont agree it meets a reasonable
understanding of this term. While there are a number of areas that have been affected by 
subsidence, Ive not seen any evidence that the damage makes the flat unsafe or unfit to live
in.
Ms W has said that the floor of the flat has dropped and some of the doors are difficult to
close. I can understand why this would be difficult to live with, cause her inconvenience and
may add to the distress of the claim. However I dont agree that the damage means the flat
couldnt be lived in. And as that is what the policy provides for, I dont think Aviva has acted
unfairly by declining Ms Ws claim for alternative accommodation.
Claim Delay
I can see the claim has been ongoing for a long time, with little progress to the damage in
Ms Ws flat. I understand this will have caused her significant distress, particularly as she
had intended to sell her flat in 2018.
When assessing a claim for subsidence, it is important that the cause of the problem is first
identified and repaired. Then there will usually be a period of monitoring, to make sure the
problem is fixed, before repairs are carried out. Due to this process claims can take a long
time to resolve, sometimes years.In this case the origin of the problem is the canal, adjacent to Ms Ws flat. Due to this, it has
involved a number of different organisations. And has been disrupted by the fact the canal
needs to continue to be used while investigations are ongoing.
When the problem was identified work began straight away to identify and fix the problem
with the canal. This work was carried out by a separate organisation that is responsible for
maintaining canals. After a fix was completed monitoring began. Aviva has said that this
appeared stable to begin with but once the water was drained and refilled, there were signs
of movement. So further monitoring was required.
In January 2020, when Aviva responded to Ms Ws complaint, monitoring was still ongoing
and the canal hadnt stabilised. I understand this meant there was a long time, with no
progress made on the issues in Ms Ws flat. However as the cause of the damage was still
being monitored and it appeared this hadnt been rectified, I dont think Aviva acted
unreasonably by delaying repairs until the issue was solved. So I dont agree Aviva have
caused unnecessary delays here.
Further, the work to monitor the repairs has been carried out by an independent
organisation. So I cant hold Aviva responsible for the amount of time this has taken.
However monitoring will usually be carried out for a minimum of six months, and will usually
complete when the structure is found to be stable. And considering monitoring was taking
place while the canal was still being used on a daily basis, it doesnt seem unreasonable that
this has taken a considerable amount of time to resolve.
So while I can see it has taken a long time for progress to be made, I dont think this is
unreasonable in the circumstances. Nor do I think Aviva have cause any additional delays
that could have been avoided. Without confirmation that the property has stabilised, any
more permanent repairs would be at risk of failing if there was further movement. So I think it
has acted reasonably here.
I understand that Ms W has lost out on the sale of her flat due to the ongoing issues and I
agree this would be frustrating and upsetting. However I dont think this is due to the actions
of Aviva, but instead an unfortunate consequence of a subsidence claim.
So while I understand the claim has taken a long time to resolve and this has caused Ms W
a lot of distress, I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong here. So Im minded not to ask
it to do anything differently.
Communication
Ms W is a beneficiary of a joint policy for the block of flats for which she is a leaseholder. As
the policyholder is named on the policy schedule as the block  rather than the individual
leaseholders - then it is usual that the managing agent will bring any claims on the policy.
Due to this, the insurer will often communicate directly with the managing agent, rather than
the individual owners of each flat. I can see that Aviva has remained in contact with the
managing agent of the property. While I appreciate this will have been frustrating for Ms W,
as she didnt receive updates directly, I cant say that Aviva have done anything wrong by
doing so.
Response to my provisional decision
Aviva didnt respond to my provisional decision.Ms W responded with a number of points. In summary, she felt that the lack of 
communication and visits from Aviva caused her additional worry and she felt that Aviva 
didnt thoroughly inspect her flat. She also highlighted a number of inaccuracies in its final 
response letter that she said showed it hadnt properly considered the issues. And she 
explained the impact Avivas actions had had on her wellbeing, particularly as she felt she 
had to continue living in a flat that was unsafe due to alternative accommodation not being 
offered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to reassure Ms W that Ive considered everything she has said in response to my 
provisional decision. I understand how distressing this episode has been for her and have no 
doubt it has had an impact on her mood and wellbeing. I appreciate the fact it is taking so 
long to resolve, will have further increased the distress it has caused.
However, as I said in my provisional decision, its my role to consider the actions of Aviva to 
determine if it has got something wrong. And after considering everything again, including 
the points raised by Ms W, Im not persuaded that it has. 
Delays
In response to my provisional decision Ms W has highlighted concerns about the structural 
safety of her flat, and that she felt Aviva didnt do enough to investigate these thoroughly. 
Ive considered the report from Avivas contractor and the one from the management 
company. And while there are a number of issues in the flat that are caused by subsidence 
these are all relatively minor and there isnt anything to show that it is unsafe. Aviva has 
visited Ms Ws flat and the building on a number of occasions and it has explained that 
repairs will be carried out once monitoring has completed. I think this is reasonable. 
I understand Ms Ws concerns however I have to rely on reports from experts who have 
inspected the damage. And from these, I dont think there is anything to suggest that the flat 
is unsafe or that further, more thorough, investigations are warranted.
I note Ms Ws concerns about the fire doors that wouldnt close. As this is the responsibility 
of the building management company, I am pleased to read that they have now provided a 
temporary repair for this problem.
Alternative accommodation
In her response to my provisional decision, Ms W has explained further why she felt she 
wasnt able to continue living at the flat. And I understand her reasons for choosing to move 
out. However I have to consider what is covered in her policy with Aviva. And the policy only 
provides alternative accommodation where the property cannot be lived in. So while I 
understand that living in the flat made Ms W feel distressed and had an impact on her 
wellbeing, and Im really sorry to hear about the impact it has had on her, the policy doesnt 
provide alternative accommodation for the circumstances. And as Ive not seen anything 
more to persuade me that the property couldnt be lived in, I maintain my decision that Aviva 
acted fairly by declining her claim for alternative accommodation.
Communication
I can see from the emails between Ms W and the managing agent of the building that she has been distressed by the limited contact. And I agree that she has had to regularly chase 
for updates. However as the policy covers the whole block, it is the managing agents 
responsibility to communicate directly with the insurer and pass on any information to Ms W. 
Aviva explained that before repairs start, the works on the canal and monitoring of these 
works need to be completed. It said that this would take a number of months. So I 
understand why it didnt provide updates regularly during the time the canal was being 
repaired and monitored. However it has provided predicted timescales and updated these 
where necessary. And been in touch when site visits and inspections were due to take place. 
So Im satisfied it has communicated sufficiently with the managing agent. 
I note Ms Ws comments about inaccuracies in Avivas final response, for example regarding 
the fridge freezer at her flat and saying it was her that had experienced light headedness. I 
appreciate this would have been frustrating. However I cant see that these inaccuracies 
have had an impact on the outcome of the claim. So while I would expect Aviva to ensure its 
final response was factually accurate, I dont think it needs to do anything more in relation to 
the claim. 
So for these reasons, I maintain my stance as outlined in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman