DRN-3127503
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance has declined a claim they 
made under their home insurance policy.
References to Mr and Mrs T include comments made by their representative.
What happened
As the background to this complaint isnt in dispute, Ill summarise the key points.
Mr and Mrs T arranged for an extension to be added to their property, receiving local 
authority approval to do so in early 2018. Work began soon after and the local Building 
Control inspected the work at various stages, including laying the foundation.
Before work was complete, movement was noted to the extension and a structural engineer, 
C, was asked to provide an expert opinion. In summary, C thought the building was 
subsiding. Mr and Mrs T got in touch with Lloyds to make a claim.
Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster, I, who carried out a visual inspection and arranged for a 
number of investigations. In summary they said:
The extension foundation was 1m deep.
Roots from a nearby oak tree had been found below this depth in clay soil.
The foundation ought to have been at least 2m deep given the soil and tree.
Had it been this deep, the subsidence problem wouldnt have happened.
The damage had been caused by clay shrinkage subsidence.
The claim was declined because the subsidence had been caused by faulty design of 
the foundation depth.
Mr and Mrs T didnt think this was fair. In summary they said:
The extension had been approved by the local authority
The foundation had been laid under the supervision of Building Control.
Is ground investigation was incorrect, and the foundation was actually 1.5m deep.
The tree hadnt been considered an issue during planning.
The tree was the cause of subsidence, rather than the foundation depth.
A neighbour had made a claim for damage caused by the same tree and it had been 
accepted.
Lloyds was satisfied the claim should be declined, bearing in mind the guidance of N, a 
builder of new homes, about recommended foundation depths when building near trees.
Our investigator thought Lloyds had acted fairly. She noted C and I both thought the 
foundation, even if built to a depth of 1.5m, was insufficient in the circumstances. And 
Building Control hadnt signed off the extension.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the oak tree has been felled and, after monitoring the extension to confirm 
movement has stabilised, repairs are due to commence shortly. Mr and Mrs T would like 
Lloyds to pay for those repairs.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence. Lloyds has accepted the extension 
suffered subsidence damage as a result of clay shrinkage brought about by the oak tree. 
Like most home insurance policies, Lloyds doesnt cover subsidence problems where they 
were caused by poor design. Lloyds considers the foundation design was poor because it 
wasnt deep enough. The onus is on Lloyds to show this is the case.
Theres been some dispute about how deep the foundation is. Is site investigation report 
showed it to be 1m. However, notes from the Building Control inspections suggest its 1.5m 
deep. But I dont think it matters which it is when deciding whether Lloyds has acted fairly. Ill 
explain why.
Lloyds has mentioned the guidance of N, a builder of new homes. I dont think theres been 
any suggestion the extension was built under the supervision of N. So, there was no legal or 
contractual requirement to follow Ns guidance.
The builder was required to follow Building Regulations. At the time the extension was built, 
and based on the particular soil characteristics, the Regulations required a minimum 
foundation depth of 900mm. The Regulations say this depth may need to be increased to 
ensure the foundation is on satisfactory soil, particularly where there are trees nearby. The 
Regulations dont specify how much deeper a foundation should be laid. In practice the 
appropriate depth is often a judgement call made by Building Control based on excavating 
and examining the soil characteristics on site  and taking into account other relevant things, 
such as nearby trees. Sometimes the guidance of N is used, although its not a requirement 
to do so.
Where a structure has been certified by Building Control as meeting the requirements of 
Building Regulations, I may consider the foundation has been designed and built in 
accordance with the relevant standards  and is therefore of suitable design. Here I 
understand the subsidence problems began before the extension was complete and a 
certificate hasnt been issued.
C has written a thorough report about the foundation depth and made recommendations for 
putting the problem right. They thought the foundation should have been deeper than 1.5m, 
potentially up to 2.25m, to protect against the likelihood of subsoil movement due to the tree 
roots and type of clay. They considered the subsidence problem was caused by the 
construction of the foundations on unsuitable subsoil. C is a structural engineer and a 
member of relevant engineering institutes. And their findings are consistent with those of I. I 
havent seen any other expert views to challenge these findings. Im persuaded by what 
theyve said.
In summary, both experts think the foundation design should have been deeper  and if it 
had been, the extension wouldnt have subsided. Effectively, they think a foundation of 
around 2m-2.25m would have been deep enough to resist the effect of the clay soil moving. And Building Control hasnt confirmed the structure, including the foundation, met the 
requirements of Building Regulations.
For these reasons, Im satisfied Lloyds has shown the foundation design was poor  and that 
caused the subsidence problem.
I recognise Mr and Mrs T didnt design the foundation themselves and likely trusted in others 
to ensure it was designed adequately. So I can understand why they might feel they havent 
done anything wrong, but are losing out regardless. However, I also have to bear in mind 
that Lloyds doesnt provide cover for subsidence brought about by poor design  and Im 
satisfied thats whats happened here.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ts neighbour has also made a subsidence claim for damage 
caused by the same tree  and its been accepted by their insurer. Whilst I recognise thats 
likely to have added to Mr and Mrs Ts disappointment at Lloyds decision to decline their 
claim, I cant take that into account. What another insurer may have chosen to do for another 
policyholder has no impact on whether Lloyds has treated Mr and Mrs T fairly.
Mr and Mrs T have mentioned the possibility of making a claim under their legal expenses 
cover. That part of the policy is provided by a different insurer. Mr and Mrs T are entitled to 
get in touch with that insurer and explore what cover that policy may provide to help them.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman