DRN-4446720
The complaint
Mr Qs complaint is about a claim he made on his DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited (DAS) legal expenses insurance policy.
Mr Q feels DAS treated him unfairly.
What happened
Mr Q was engaged in an employment dispute, which DAS agreed to fund under his legal 
expenses insurance policy.
The subject of this particular complaint is DAS decision to stop funding Mr Qs claim shortly 
before he went to trial. Mr Q says DAS should have funded his costs in going to trial and that 
their decision not to do so, combined with delays in communicating with him generally, 
caused him considerable stress and impacted on his health. 
Mr Q says he proceeded to trial without DAS help and that he paid £7,000 plus VAT for a 
Barrister to represent him. He wants DAS to reimburse him for this amount, provide him with 
an apology as well as compensation for the stress caused.
DAS on the other hand have said that they werent obliged to continue to fund Mr Qs claim 
after he rejected a reasonable offer to settle the dispute, based on advice from Mr Qs 
Barrister, and thats what happened here. Despite that they said they offered to fund £600 in 
costs for Mr Q to obtain a second opinion from another Barrister. Mr Q didnt take DAS up on 
this offer and instead proceeded to trial and was unsuccessful. In reviewing their own 
actions, DAS accepted theyd done some things wrong. They said they should have ensured 
a Barrister reviewed Mr Qs settlement offer and that matters were unduly complicated, that 
correspondence went unanswered and the costing unit (instructed to assess the fees Mr Q 
had incurred) was prematurely instructed. They offered Mr Q £200 in respect of these 
failings. 
Unhappy Mr Q referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator 
considered his complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. He said that DAS were 
entitled to withdraw cover if a reasonable offer wasnt accepted by a policyholder and the 
offer they made was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr Q doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Qs complaint. This is why.
The starting point is the policy terms. They say:
If you do not accept a reasonable offer to settle a claim we may refuse to pay further legal 
costs.
Thats not uncommon in legal expenses insurance policies. Litigation can be both risky and 
expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the risk and associated costs 
of proceeding to trial (and potentially achieving a less favourable outcome) if advised that a 
reasonable offer to settle their claim has been made. We wouldnt expect an insurer to do so 
either. We dont think this is unfair. Litigation can be both expensive and uncertain.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of 
the legal advice given. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. So long as 
they have got advice from a suitably qualified lawyer, we wont generally question their 
reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes. 
DAS did this.   
Im satisfied that the Direct Access Barrister that advised on the offer made to Mr Q was 
experienced in the areas of law he was asking for help with, and Ive seen nothing that 
suggests the advice was based on factual mistakes. I appreciate that Mr Q didnt want to 
accept this advice, but that didnt mean that DAS had to continue funding his claim. I also 
understand why Mr Q says he didnt get a second opinion from another Barrister. He felt he 
was too close to trial and didnt have time to organise that and ensure he was prepared. But 
again, that doesnt mean that DAS needed to do anything differently. 
The possible different outcomes of the litigation at the time the offer was made had no 
bearing on DAS actions either. Thats because DAS were entitled to minimise their cost risk 
by bringing matters to conclusion as soon as they received legal advice to say the offer Mr Q 
received was reasonable. Mr Q was unsuccessful at trial, which is very unfortunate. This 
was precisely the kind of situation DAS were trying to avoid by requiring him to accept the 
offer. In doing so they reduced their risk of incurring further costs in proceeding. I consider 
that to be fair and wouldnt look behind their decision to do that. 
Im pleased that DAS are now funding the costs of Mr Qs appeal. I dont know enough about 
that claim for cover as it doesnt form the subject of this complaint. But irrespective of that, 
DAS decision to fund it has no bearing on whether its fair them to fund the costs that Mr Q 
went on to incur himself to pursue his original claim, after DAS said they wouldnt fund them.
DAS have accepted that there were failings in their communications with Mr Q and that they 
should have contacted him for an update. But this doesnt mean they should pay his costs in 
proceeding to trial. DAS didnt approve those costs in advance, which is a policy 
requirement, and as far as they were concerned, theyd told Mr Q there was no further 
funding in place. Its of note that it wasnt until a year after Mr Q was in contact with DAS that 
he got in touch with them to ask to fund his appeal and for his fees to trial to be covered. Its 
of note that DAS werent even aware that hed proceeded to trial with alternative 
representation until that time. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think DAS did anything wrong. And although I 
appreciate Mr Qs submissions that DAS conduct had an impact on his health, I dont think 
their service failings (including delays) warrant any more compensation than theyve offered. 
I appreciate that Mr Qs state of health has suffered but I think thats more to do with the 
underlying dispute he was pursuing and his decision to continue with the litigation himself 
and the subsequent outcome, rather than because of something DAS did. And DAS offer is 
in line with awards weve made for similar failings, so I dont think they should pay Mr Q 
anything more.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Qs complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman