DRN-4263446
The complaint
Mrs P complains that she was unable to change her PIN number for her card with HSBC UK 
Bank Plc trading as first direct (FD) resulting in her being unable to withdraw money from 
ATMs. Mrs P feels that FD failed to take her disability into consideration and wants more 
compensation than the £200 shes been awarded so far.  
What happened
Mrs P opened an account with FD on 4 November 2022. Mrs P found she was unable to 
change her PIN number which meant she was unable to withdraw cash from ATMs. Though 
Mrs P was able to use the card to transact.
Mrs P contacted FD about this. FD told Mrs P that she needed to activate the card before 
she could use it. So the following day Mrs P followed FDs instructions but was still unable to 
change her PIN and contacted FD again. Mrs P was advised that the issue may be that she 
was trying to use an unsafe PIN number or the card was faulty. Mrs P didnt want to try again 
so FD agreed to send Mrs P another PIN out and Mrs P raised a formal complaint.
FD called Mrs P regarding this on 4 January 2023. Mrs P explained she was still having 
trouble changing her PIN number though the PIN that came with the card worked. It was 
agreed to resolve the issue that FD would send out another new card and PIN. FD 
acknowledged that this would inconvenience Mrs P as she would be without a card for a few 
days and shed have to update her card details with various organisations, but confirmed she 
will be able to see her card details on the FD app. Mrs P confirms that she was able to use 
her joint account with her husband in the meantime but that she wants to be compensated 
for the inconvenience. FD offers Mrs P £75, than £100 compensation. Mrs P agrees to 
accept the £100 compensation providing she has no further trouble with the new card and 
PIN.
Mrs P continued to have issues with her card but by 19 January 2023 FD established that 
the cause of the card and PIN issue was the use of a weak PIN being chosen. This was 
discussed with Mrs P and as a resolution to her complaint FD agreed to compensate Mrs P 
a further £100 which she accepted. The issues Mrs P had with her card and PIN were finally 
resolved on 26 January and she was able to withdraw cash from an ATM.
Following this Mrs P felt that the compensation offered was insufficient given the 
inconvenience suffered so brought her complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Ps concerns and reached the conclusion that Mrs P 
had been inconvenienced by not being able to use her card and that FD had failed to 
communicate with Mrs P regarding what the issue was that was causing this (a weak PIN) 
for around 10 weeks. But as the problem had now been resolved they thought that the 
overall compensation of £200 was fair and didnt think FD needed to do anything more.  
Mrs P disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mrs P wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way 
that I have. So Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our 
rules allow me to do that. And the crux of Mrs Ps complaint is that she wasnt able to 
change the PIN on her card resulting in her being unable to withdraw cash from an ATM. 
Since raising her initial complaint Mrs P has further complained that says she feels 
discriminated against because she suffers from a condition which makes it difficult for her to 
remember things  so she needed to be able to change her PIN to something she could 
remember and that this has been overlooked by FD. Mrs P wants further compensation.
It might be helpful for me to say here that, as we are not the regulator, I cannot make the 
bank change its systems or processes  such as how cards are activated or PIN number 
changed. We offer an informal dispute resolution service and we have no regulatory or 
disciplinary role.
My role is to look at the problems Mrs P has experienced and see if the FD has done 
anything wrong or treated them unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mrs P 
back in the position she wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
In this case it is not disputed that Mrs P had trouble changing her PIN number for her card 
and that she has been inconvenienced and at times embarrassed at the repeated attempts 
to do this. But this issue has been resolved now and Mrs P is now able to use her card.
I appreciate Mrs P thinks that FD has treated her unfairly by overlooking her disability. But 
having listened to all the phone calls she had with FD about the issues she was having, I 
cant see that she ever specifically raised her condition with FD or that it was something it 
had to take into consideration when setting a PIN. 
I do acknowledge that Mrs P does mention - albeit very briefly - that she has a condition that 
makes it difficult to remember things. But she never goes into any more detail than that. So I 
dont think FD treated Mrs P unfairly when it was focussed on trying to resolve her issue of 
not being able to change her PIN. 
I also appreciate that Mrs P may not be able to use the PIN she wishes and that this might 
make things more difficult for her. But this needs to be balanced with FDs need to have 
robust security measure in place to protect its customers against fraud. So I dont think it is 
unreasonable for FD to have minimum requirements in place for PIN numbers that would be 
acceptable.  
Mrs P wants further compensation for the inconvenience caused to her while she was 
unable to change her PIN or withdraw money from ATMs. While I agree that it took some time to get to the bottom of what was causing the issue, in the end FD did resolve it and 
compensated Mrs P £200 - which she accepted. Things dont always go smoothly and 
although Mrs P was no doubt inconvenienced, Im not persuaded further compensation is 
warranted or would make a material difference to Mrs Ps circumstances.  
So overall and having considered everything I think FD has done enough to settle Mrs Ps 
complaint and I think the compensation is already paid is fair, so Im not going to ask it do 
anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman