DRN-3271719
The complaint
Mr C complains about what Barclays Bank UK PLC has offered to put things right following 
his complaint that it incorrectly reported information about him to the CIFAS fraud prevention 
database.
What happened
Mr C had a current account and savings account with Barclays. In 2021, Barclays closed 
Mr Cs accounts with immediate effect. At the same time, Barclays reported information to 
the CIFAS fraud prevention database.
Mr C didnt think Barclays should have reported this information to CIFAS, and complained 
to Barclays.
Barclays looked at this. It said that although it thought it closed Mr Cs accounts correctly, it 
agreed to remove the information recorded against Mr C. But Mr C thought Barclays hadnt 
listened to what hed had to say, and that hed had to make a number of phone calls before 
Barclays were willing to sort things out. So he referred the complaint to us.
Barclays looked at things again, and offered to pay Mr C £150 by way of apology. Following 
our involvement, Barclays agreed to increase this offer to £250. Our investigator looked at 
this and thought what Barclays had offered was fair. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has agreed to remove the information it reported to CIFAS and offered to pay Mr C 
compensation. So Ive considered whether what Barclays has offered is fair.
I think it is. Ill explain why.
Based on what Ive seen, Barclays wrote to Mr C in 4 June 2021 to say it was freezing his 
account while it reviewed some recent transactions. It listed 14 transactions it wanted further 
information about, and asked Mr C to provide this information within three days.  On 
16 June, Barclays decided to close Mr Cs account. At this point it recorded information with 
CIFAS.
I see Mr C called Barclays four times between 3 June and 18 June asking for updates on the 
review. Mr C tried to contact Barclays on 8 July but couldnt pass security and was referred 
to the branch. Mr C then complained to Barclays on 13 July 2021. Mr C said he was the 
victim of a scam. On 23 July, Barclays got in touch with Mr C and asked him for further 
information about this. After Mr C sent Barclays copies of the messages between him and 
the person involved in the scam, Barclays reviewed the complaint  and wrote to Mr C on 29 
July, agreeing to remove the information it had recorded.
Looking at all of this, I agree Barclays could probably have sorted things out sooner. It 
appears that once Barclays asked Mr C for further information about what happened he was 
able to send them the information that led it to remove the information it had recorded. 
But where I award compensation for distress or inconvenience, this isnt to punish the 
business, but to reflect the impact its actions had on the customer.
Ive carefully considered what Mr C has said about this. 
On the one hand, I note that Mr C says he was having a very difficult time. He said that 
Barclayss actions made him feel very guilty and anxious about his future. Hes told us he 
was suffering with anxiety and depression at the time, and so what happened was 
particularly traumatising. He also says the information recorded against him meant he 
couldnt get another bank account  and this was a particular issue as, during the pandemic, 
most places required debit cards for payment. And he thinks Barclays could have been more 
helpful. 
I have every sympathy for Mr C and dont doubt hes had a difficult time. But equally, I think 
some of what Mr C experienced was as a result of the scammer. I cant hold Barclays 
responsible for the actions of a third party. Mr C has also told us he was a student living at 
home  and was able to get financial support from his family during this time. Mr C found out 
about the information very soon after it was applied to his record  and Barclays investigated 
and removed it quickly after he complained to them about it. And while I acknowledge Mr Cs 
comments about what might have happened had he not had family to help him, or if hed had 
a job and not been able to receive a salary, these things didnt happen: I cant fairly award 
compensation as if they had. 
With all this in mind, I think that the £250 Barclays has offered is fair in the circumstances of 
Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C thinks he should get more. He says hes seen case studies on our website with higher 
compensation. But Im satisfied, for the reasons Ive explained above, that what Barclays 
has offered is fair. While I acknowledge what Mr C has said about the case studies on our 
website, I need to consider whats fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of 
Mr Cs complaint. So this doesnt change my conclusion.
In all the circumstances, I think that what Barclays has offered is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLCs offer of £250 is fair. 
It should now pay this to Mr C if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman