DRN-3286317
The complaint
Mr W complains that British Gas Services Limited (BG) continued to incorrectly send 
correspondence relating to his HomeCare policy to his ex-wifes address, despite him telling 
them the correct address to use. He said this has caused him considerable stress and has 
made his medical situation worse. 
What happened
Mr W paid for a BG HomeCare policy on a property he rented out. In August 2020, he 
complained to BG about the service theyd provided under that policy. And that BG had sent 
his data to his tenant and his ex-wife. BG upheld that complaint. 
BGs notes stated that they had amended the correspondence address they used for Mr W 
on 3 November 2020. They offered Mr W £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience theyd caused him. And £50 interest on the refund amount they paid him. A 
cheque was raised for £150. 
In August 2021 Mr W complained to BG. He said his ex-wife had just passed on to him the 
£150 cheque theyd sent the previous November. He said this had caused additional 
problems between him and his ex-wife, as it had caused her to think that he still had mail 
sent to him at her address. Mr W said that his correspondence details shouldve been 
updated in August 2020 after his previous cause for complaint. He also brought his 
complaint to this service.
BG apologised and said theyd reissue the £150 cheque and send it to the correct address. 
They also offered Mr W £30 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the mistake 
had caused. Mr W didnt think this was enough. BG increased the compensation theyd 
offered from £30 to £50. 
Mr W complained to BG again in September 2021. He didnt think theyd resolved his 
problems. He said that although theyd sent the replacement cheque for £150 to the correct 
address, theyd sent the compensation cheque for £50 to his ex-wifes address. This had 
caused further issues between him and his ex-wife. And Mr W felt that BG mustve made the 
mistake on purpose. He didnt feel BG had learnt from their previous mistakes. And didnt 
think they wanted to get things right.
BG apologised again to Mr W in their final response letter. They upheld the complaint. And 
offered an additional £30 for the distress and inconvenience theyd caused.
Mr W complained again to this service in October 2021. He said that the £30 cheque BG had 
sent to apologise for their error had been sent to his ex-wifes address. He said that this 
continuing problem was causing his medical issues and his anxiety to get much worse. He 
continued to believe that BG were making this same error on purpose. And felt that their 
compensation should be more than £30 for their errors. He wanted BG to stop sending his 
letters to his ex-wife.
Our investigator felt that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the 
compensation offered for the latest error was reasonable. He felt that the delicate situation 
Mr W was in with his ex-wife had meant that BGs mistakes had led to considerably more 
trouble and upset than usual. And considered that BG should pay Mr W an additional £250 
for the trouble and upset theyd caused him. 
BG didnt agree with our investigator. They felt theyd already offered Mr W £230 in total 
compensation for the errors theyd made. And couldnt agree that an additional £250 was 
warranted under the circumstances. They offered to pay Mr W £100 as a gesture of goodwill 
to say sorry for the delay in receiving the agreed cheques and for any upset caused.
Mr W didnt accept the new offer. He said he felt that even £250 wasnt enough as he said 
he needed to get a solicitor involved to sort out the issues with his ex-wife. He said he would 
need BG to pay his legal costs to sort out his ex-wife and the divorce court order.
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
I consider its reasonable for a consumer to expect a business to quickly update the 
correspondence address they are using if the consumer informs them that the address the 
business has used is incorrect. I wouldnt expect a consumer to have to tell a business that 
they were continuing to use an incorrect address.
Mr Ws correspondence address should have been fully corrected when he first raised his 
complaint with BG in August 2020. 
But in their final response letter to Mr Ws September 2021 complaint, BG said that theyd 
identified that a system issue had caused the issues. And that theyd corrected this. They 
said: The system usually takes 2-24 hours to update, and when the last cheque was 
processed this was sent ahead of the update taking place.
As our investigator noted, BGs own notes over the course of the complaints said:
3 November 2020  I have amended the correspondence address to [Mr Ws correct 
address], as it was showing the address of [incorrect address], which customer has 
confirmed he hasn't lived in for years. 
9 November 2020  £150 sent as goodwill following full refund, customer's issue re 
payments now resolved and refunded
These cant be both correct, and consistent with BGs response to Mr W after his September 
2021 complaint. We know that the address wasnt properly corrected on 3 November 2020, 
as the first cheque for £150 was sent to the wrong address. And we know that it wasnt 
properly corrected after the September 2021 complaint, because further cheques went to the 
wrong address.
From what Ive seen, BG didnt correctly update the correspondence address for Mr W when 
he first asked them to. They continued to use an incorrect address, even after Mr W had 
explained to them the serious problems their error was causing him. The address had not 
been properly updated more than a year later, as the £50 cheque BG issued in relation to Mr Ws September 2021 complaint was sent to the wrong address. And then the £30 cheque 
BG sent to apologise also got sent to the wrong address. I completely understand why Mr W 
felt that BG were making the same error on purpose. 
I acknowledge that BG have accepted that they made mistakes. They offered £150 (£100 
distress and inconvenience and £50 interest on the refunded amount) first. Then £50, then 
£30. But I agree with our investigator that the compensation offered to date doesnt reflect 
the length of time that this has caused problems for Mr W. Or the extent of those problems. I 
say this because from what Ive seen, due to the difficult relationship Mr W has with his ex-
wife, the mistakes have caused him significant distress. For these reasons, I agree with our 
investigator that the mistakes led to considerably more trouble and upset than we would 
usually see for errors of this type.
I also acknowledge that Mr W has said that BGs mistakes have or will directly lead to legal 
costs. Ive not seen any information or evidence in relation to this. So it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me make a decision on this point. But Mr W is free to make a new complaint 
on this point if he wishes.
Overall, I agree with our investigator that BG should pay Mr W an additional £250 for the 
trouble and upset their mistakes have caused him. 
Putting things right
British Gas Services Limited must pay Mr W an additional £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience theyve caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. I require British Gas Services Limited to pay 
Mr W an additional £250 for the distress and inconvenience theyve caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman