DRN-4383428
The complaint
Mrs A complains about QIC Europe Ltds handling of her home insurance claim.
QIC is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As QIC has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to QIC includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In around May 2022, Mrs A made a claim under her home insurance policy with QIC after 
her bathroom and kitchen were damaged by an escape of water. 
QIC arranged for a surveyor to attend Mrs As property to inspect the damage. QIC says it 
didnt have any contractors available to complete the repairs, so it offered Mrs A a cash 
settlement. It asked Mrs A to provide quotes from two contractors for its review.
QIC thought the quotes Mrs A provided were far too high and included work that wasnt 
covered by the claim. QIC then found that one of its contractors was available so it instructed 
them to carry out the work.
Mrs A raised several concerns about QICs handling of her claim. She was unhappy that it 
wouldnt agree to replace her bathtub and wall tiles which were damaged. She also 
complained about delays and poor communication.
In its response to Mrs As complaint in January 2023, QIC said the damage to the bathtub 
wasnt covered as cracks would have required force to occur. It said there was no evidence 
to suggest the damage was due to the escape of water. It said damage to the wall tiles and 
grouting were pre-existing and excluded under the policy. 
Repair works were scheduled to take place in January 2023, but they were delayed until 
March 2023. QIC says this was because Mrs A couldnt move out of the property on the 
initial start date. QIC covered the cost of alternative accommodation for two weeks while 
repairs took place in March.
Mrs A complained about the quality of the repairs whilst they were being carried out and 
after she returned to the property. She said QICs contractors had also caused damage to 
her property.
QIC visited the property in May 2023 and agreed there were a number of snagging issues 
that needed to be rectified. Alternative accommodation was agreed for Mrs A and her family 
so that some of the works could be carried out in June 2023.
Mrs A wasnt satisfied that QIC had properly dealt with her concerns, so she asked our 
service to consider her complaint.
Our investigator thought Mrs As complaint should be upheld. She didnt think it was unfair 
for QIC to refuse to cover the cost of a new bathtub or tiles that didnt appear to have been 
damaged by the escape of water event. However, our investigator thought QIC was 
responsible for avoidable delays, poor service and a lack of communication. So, she 
recommended QIC pay Mrs A £550 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
QIC disagreed with our investigators outcome. It didnt agree it was fully responsible for a 
delay in works starting and it disputed there being a delay in a site visit taking place following 
the initial repairs. It said it didnt agree that the effect of disruption on Mrs A and her family 
should be a factor in the compensation award because alternative accommodation was to 
limit disruption. QIC said it thought £350 would be a more appropriate award.
Mrs A also disagreed with our investigators outcome. She said QIC had known from the 
start that the bathtub was damaged, but it didnt advise her it needed to be replaced until its 
third attempt at completing outstanding repairs. She said QIC hadnt given her an 
explanation about what the contractors were doing while she was in alternative 
accommodation and why all works were stopped. She also advised us that works 
rescheduled for October 2023 werent fully completed and further damage has been caused 
to her property.
As both parties disagree with our investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Ive considered everything Mrs A has told our service, but Ill be keeping my findings to what 
I believe to be the crux of her complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service.
I understand that Mrs As claim is still ongoing, and shes made us aware of some other 
concerns since our investigator issued her outcome to this complaint. I thought it would be 
helpful to provide some clarity about the Financial Ombudsman Services role and the scope 
of the complaint that Im deciding. Our role is to resolve disputes between complainants and 
financial businesses, to help both parties move on. It isnt our role to handle a claim or to 
deal with matters as they arise.
In this decision, I will only be considering matters Mrs A has raised with QIC that occurred up 
to the date she referred her complaint to our service, in June 2023. If Mrs A would like our 
service to consider matters that have arisen after this date, she may be able to bring them to 
us as a separate complaint.
Damage covered by claim
When a policyholder makes a claim, the onus is on them to show that an insured event most 
likely caused the loss or damage. If its established that an insured event caused the 
damage an insurer can decline a claim if it can show that an exclusion applies, or a condition 
has been breached.
Mrs As claim was for damage to her property caused by an escape of water, which is one of 
the events listed by QIC as being covered.The surveyor who attended Mrs As property in May 2022 noted that there appeared to have 
been an escape of water to the flexi hose to the hand basin. The internal damage summary 
on the report says:
The bathroom tiling has cracking in several areas around the toilet and below the vanity 
basin. The vanity unit has no draw fronts, and there is evidence of water ingress to the 
drawers.
I understand QIC agreed to cover damage to Mrs As bathroom and kitchen from the escape 
of water event.
I can see that Mrs A disputed what was covered in QICs scope of works in around 
November 2022. QIC concluded that cracks in the bathtub werent consistent with escape of 
water damage and the damage to the wall tiles and grouting was due to wear and tear.
QIC says the cracks in the bathtub would have required force for them to occur. I can see 
that Mrs A told QIC the bathtub crack happened at the time of the water leakage, and she 
wasnt aware of any force at the time. However, I havent seen any evidence to show that 
the damage to the bathtub or wall tiles was caused by the escape of water. So, Ive no 
reason to doubt the expertise of QICs surveyor.
I can see that Mrs A suggested her bathtub might be covered by the accidental damage 
section of the policy.
Accidental damage is defined in the policy as:
Sudden, unexpected and physical damage which:
i. Happens at a specific time; and
ii. Was not deliberate; and
iii.Was caused by something external and identifiable
Mrs A doesnt appear to have identified a sudden cause for the damage to the bathtub. 
As Mrs A hasnt shown that the damage to her bathtub or wall tiles were caused by an 
insured event, I dont think it was unfair for QIC to conclude that this wasnt covered by her 
claim.
Delays and customer service
I can see that the repair work was originally scheduled for mid-January 2023, but it needed 
to be rescheduled to March. QIC says this was because Mrs A wasnt able to move out on 
the scheduled date. From what Ive seen, Mrs A wasnt able to move out of her property in 
January because alternative accommodation hadnt been arranged. 
In early December 2022, Mrs A messaged QIC saying she had the dates for the builders to 
start work at her home. She said: so Alternative accommodation needs to be sorted as we 
wont have access to bathroom for 1 week. Kindly inform me as soon as possible next 
steps.
Two weeks later QIC asked Mrs A to provide it with a quote for accommodation for the 
period of the repairs. In response Mrs A said she hadnt been told to look for alternative 
accommodation and questioned why she was having to sort it out.There doesnt appear to have been any further communication from QIC about the 
alternative accommodation until more than three weeks later. QIC asked Mrs A to send in 
one weeks accommodation that was within reasonable costs to be reviewed. This message 
was sent three days before the works were due to start. 
It looks like Mrs A managed to find accommodation and uploaded the details the day before 
the works were due to start. But she then found out it took three to five days to be 
authorised, so the works had to be cancelled.
I appreciate QIC feels it did enough to make Mrs A aware that she needed to arrange the 
accommodation herself. I acknowledge that it told her this in mid-December. However, it 
delayed responding to her query about this for more than three weeks. When it next 
contacted her about the accommodation three days before the scheduled work, I cant see 
that it explained the process regarding its approval. 
The relevant industry rules require an insurer to provide reasonable guidance to help a 
policyholder make a claim and appropriate information on its progress. If QIC had 
communicated more clearly with Mrs A about the alternative accommodation, I think its 
likely that the works could have gone ahead in January 2023 as planned, rather than being 
delayed by almost two months.
QIC has acknowledged that the repairs that took place in March 2023 werent carried out to 
a satisfactory standard and damage was caused by its contractors. After a site visit in early 
May 2023, it agreed that further work needed to be carried out.
Mrs A and her family went into alternative accommodation in June 2023 so some of the 
further repairs could be carried out. However, QIC wasnt able to complete the planned 
works because of a second leak. It told Mrs A she would need to arrange for her bathtub to 
be replaced. Mrs A has questioned why QIC didnt tell her this before the original repairs 
were carried out. 
Its unclear when QIC became aware that damage to the bathtub was causing a leak. 
However, QIC has offered to reimburse Mrs A for the cost of removing the damaged bathtub 
and replacing it with a new one, even though this wasnt covered by the claim. I think this 
was reasonable. 
I appreciate that some of the delay in progressing Mrs As claim was beyond QICs control. 
However, I think QIC was at least partly responsible for the delay in the initial works being 
carried out because of its poor communication with Mrs A. There have been several other 
occasions during the progress of Mrs As claim that QIC has delayed responding to her 
which was no doubt frustrating for her. 
There were a number of issues with the quality of the repairs carried out by QICs 
contractors in March 2023, who also caused damage to items in Mrs As home. This further 
delayed the conclusion of Mrs As claim. If effective repairs had been carried out to begin 
with, Mrs A and her family might not have needed to move out of their home again. 
I appreciate QIC agreed to cover alternative accommodation costs for Mrs A to try to 
minimise disruption while work was being carried out. However, I dont think this was enough 
to compensate her for the impact of having to move out of her home, with three young 
children. 
I think the poor quality of repairs and damage caused by QICs contractors, along with the 
poor communication and delay in progressing her claim, have caused Mrs A unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience. Having considered the impact of QICs poor service on Mrs A 
up to mid-June 2023, I think £550 is reasonable compensation.Putting things right
QIC should pay Mrs A £550 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs As complaint and direct QIC Europe Ltd to put 
things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman