DRN-3796889
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Unum Ltd declined a claim made on a group income protection policy.
What happened
Mr M had the benefit of a group income protection policy (the policy) through his former 
employer, which can pay out a percentage of his salary after hed been off work for 26 
weeks (the deferred period). 
Mr M was off work from early February 2020 and the sickness certificate completed by his 
GP reflects this was initially due to drug and alcohol dependency. A few months later, he 
started a phased return to work. But before he was able to work his full weekly hours, he 
started another period of sickness. Another phased return to work commenced in October 
2020 but after a few weeks, he was signed off sick.
Mr M remained off work and a claim was made under the policy. Unum declined the claim on 
the basis that, based on the medical evidence, Mr M hadnt met the policy definition of 
incapacity. Mr M appealed but Unum, ultimately, maintained its position to decline the claim.
Unhappy, Mr M brought a complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into what had 
happened and didnt uphold his complaint. Mr M disagreed and asked an Ombudsman to 
review the complaint. So, his complaint has been passed to me to consider everything 
afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions say that to claim Mr M needs to meet the policy definition of 
incapacity. A member is incapacitated if Unum is satisfied they are: 
Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the insured occupation and are 
Not performing any occupation, except as provided under paragraph 5.3 
(proportionate benefit). 
Insured occupation means the trade, profession or general role that the member was 
actively undertaking for, or at, the employer immediately prior to incapacity. 
Material and substantial duties means the duties that are normally required for the 
performance of the members insured occupation. 
Proportionate benefit means benefit may be paid in respect of a member who, although 
incapacitated, is working in their normal occupation on a reduced basis, or working in a 
different and less well paid occupation. 
Its for Mr M to establish that he has a valid claim under the policy, taking into account the 
above policy definitions. 
For the reasons set out below, I dont uphold his complaint. I know Mr M will be disappointed 
and I dont doubt hes been through a very difficult time. But overall, I think it was fair and 
reasonable for Unum to have declined Mr Ms claim.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to conclude that Mr M didnt meet the 
policy definition of incapacity. Its not disputed that Mr M experienced symptoms of 
the medical conditions hed been diagnosed with. But the medical evidence doesnt 
give a clear picture of how they specifically impacted his ability to carry out the 
insured occupation throughout the deferred period. Thats whats required by the 
contract of insurance as set out in the policy terms.  
Mr M was signed off work by his GP throughout the deferred period. And Ive seen 
occupational health reports reflecting that he wasnt fit to work. But that doesnt 
automatically mean the policy definition of incapacity is met. Thats because the 
policy requires Mr M to be unable to carry out the material and substantial duties of 
his insured occupation. So, theres a specific policy term which Mr M needs to fulfil 
for a claim to be successful. 
Mr Ms symptoms were largely self-reported. For example, when completing a 
certificate signing him off work, theres a GP entry from May 2020 reflecting that he 
was being signed off with limited information  based on Mr Ms verbal account and a 
psychiatrists letter.
The psychiatrists letter dated March 2020 does reflect that residential rehabilitation 
was recommended (but not taken up by Mr M). And that he was to be referred for 
one to one alcohol therapy. Its also reflected that Mr M binges on alcohol for three 
or four days and then has a break for one to two weeks. Thats consistent with what 
Mr M said in his complaint letter to Unum dated August 2021; that there were long 
periods of abstinence followed by extreme episodes of drinking which could last 
several days.  But theres little to illustrate how Mr M was unable to perform the 
material and substantial duties of the insured occupation.
I appreciate what Mr Ms said about looking fine on the surface but after relapsing, 
his ability to function was getting progressively worse after each relapse. However, 
looking at the medical evidence, I dont think Unum has unfairly concluded that Mr M 
had a good level of functionality outside of work. For example, he reported that he 
didnt drink when his children were around. 
The deferred period did coincide with the Covid-19 lockdown which started on 23 
March 2020 as stated by Mr M. As such, he says he was unable to see his therapist, 
GP or occupational therapist face to face. However, I still dont think it was 
unreasonable for Unum to conclude that Mr M hadnt established that he was 
incapacitated during the entirety of the deferred period based on the available 
medical evidence. 
Ive taken into account the documents received from Mr M consisting of the records 
from the time spent in a rehabilitation facility earlier in 2019. However, Ive placed 
less weight on the contents of those documents as they pre-date the start of the 
deferred period by some time. My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman