DRN-2867138
The complaint
  Ms F complains about a fixed term loan provided to her by Loans 2 Go Limited trading as
Loans 2 Go, which she says was unaffordable.
What happened
 Loans 2 Go provided Ms F with a loan of £750 on 01 February 2019. The loan was to be 
repaid over 18 months with monthly repayments of £171.42. If Ms F made each payment 
when it was due, shed pay £3,085.56 in total. To date Ms F hasnt made a repayment.
Ms F says that if Loans 2 Go had carried out proper checks, in particular with her credit file, 
it would have seen that she couldnt afford to repay the loan. She says she had multiple 
loans at the time she applied for this one. She feels that Loans 2 Go have irresponsibly lent 
the money to her.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2021. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Did L2G carry out proportionate checks?
I can see that Loans 2 Go asked Ms F about her income and expenditure. It has told our
service that it adjusted Ms Fs income and expenditure based on what it says was its
verification. It reduced Ms Fs declared income from £2500 a month to £1839.92 after
verifying this. It then increased what Ms F says her expenditure was of £1060, to £1667.50,
based on checks it carried out this included a credit search.
Ive carefully considered what Loans 2 Go has said about how it calculated Ms Fs
disposable income. I dont think its checks were proportionate for this loan because there
was a discrepancy between what Ms F said about her income and expenditure and what it
says it could see through its checks. I dont think Loans 2 Go should have accepted this loan
knowing or having reason to suspect Ms F wasnt being truthful about her income or
expenditure in this case. In both instances the discrepancy was quite wide. In addition, I can
see there were defaults on short term lending taken out by Ms F on the credit search carried
out by Loans 2 Go. It had also worked out that Ms Fs disposable income left was less than
£100 after it took into consideration the loan repayment. So, taking all of this into
consideration, I think Loans 2 Go should either have carried out further checks to see if there
were good reasons for this, or its shouldnt have provided Ms F with the loan. This leads me
to think that Loans 2 Go needed to take steps to verify Ms Fs actual monthly expenditure.
As I cant see that this Loans 2 Go did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out
before providing Ms F with her loan were reasonable and proportionate, bearing in mind Ms
F would need to meet her loan repayments over 18 months.
Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
Ive concluded the checks Loans 2 Go carried out werent proportionate and that they
needed to do more. But I dont need to look into what it would have seen if it had carried out
proportionate checks, because I dont think Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision
anyway, based on what it had in front of it.
I say this because when I look through the credit search Loans 2 Go carried out, I can see
that it shows Ms F was having problems managing her finances. There were defaults
recorded on three short term loans, taken out by Ms F in 2018. All 3 were due to run to
August 2018 less than 6 months before she applied for her loan with L2G and all of the
defaulted loans still had outstanding amounts to repay. Ms F also was in arrears with a
communications supplier by 2 payments. And although the search results show that she had
low credit card limit utilisation this was only because she had very recently within a few
weeks of asking for a loan with L2G, taken out a new credit card. She was up to her limit
with 2 other accounts and I can see she took a short term loan in October 2018.
I think it would have been clear from these search results that Ms F wasnt managing to
repay her existing debt, in particular with 3 defaulted accounts with outstanding balances. I
think it was unlikely that Ms F could repay further credit sustainably without experiencing
adverse consequences. So I think it is more likely she wouldnt manage to make the
repayments on this loan in a sustainable way. And, as it happened, she made no
repayments and shortly after her first repayment date, told Loans 2 Go that she was
struggling with her finances.
As Ms F has been indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that
she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of
what L2G did wrong.
So, I am minded to think that Loans 2 Go needs to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. L2G responded and said it had no further comments to 
make. Ms F did not respond.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Loans 2 Go has not made any further points and Ms F has not responded. So, as neither 
party has anything further to add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within 
my provisional decision. With that being the case, I uphold Ms Fs complaint. 
 
Putting things right
  In line with this Services approach, Ms F shouldnt repay more than the capital amount of
£750 she borrowed for her loan. As Ive already mentioned Ms F hasnt made any
repayments either. Loans 2 Go should look to buy back the debt from the third party or if it
cant discuss with this party bringing about the following:
Remove any interest and charges applied to Ms Fs account from when it was 
opened;
With the capital amount outstanding, Loans 2 Go needs to treat Ms F sympatheticallyand fairly, which might include coming to a new arrangement about how best to 
repay this; and
Loans 2 Go should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Fs credit file in
relation to the loan, once it has been settled.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go
must give Ms F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Ms Fs complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as I have described above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman