DRN-4428700
The complaint
Miss P has complained that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) declined a 
terminal illness claim she made under her life insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties. In summary Miss P claimed 
on the policy she had applied for in 2021. LV declined the claim as it said Miss P had not 
answered a medical question correctly when the policy was taken out. It cancelled her policy 
and refunded the premiums paid. Unhappy, Miss P referred her complaint here.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Miss P appealed. Miss P is 
represented, but for simplicity I shall just refer to representations as being made by Miss P.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised the background to this complaint and focused on what I find are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts. I recognise that Miss P will be very 
disappointed by my decision, but I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
bea qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. CIDRA sets 
out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take reasonable 
care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the 
qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
When applying for the policy in 2021 Miss P was asked:
In the last 5 years have you had any of these? Asthma, sleep apnoea or anything else 
affecting your lungs or breathing?
Miss Ps medical notes show that she had a number of appointments with respiratory 
consultants over the years including in 2016 (but within 5 years of the policy starting) 
and2018. These indicate a suspected diagnosis of respiratory bronchiolitis associated 
interstitial lung disease, RBILD.
I do appreciate that Miss P may not have been given this medical diagnosis. But Im satisfied 
that the question was clear. I dont find that LV was wrong to conclude she must have been 
aware of issues with her lungs for which she had been referred to specialists, even if she 
didnt know the diagnosis. Additionally, her medical notes contain several references to 
asthma in the five years before the policy commenced. In the circumstances I dont find it 
was unreasonable for LV to conclude that the question should have been answered 
positively.
LV has provided underwriting evidence that shows had it known that Miss P had a history of 
asthma it would have requested further details from her GP. This would have shown the 
diagnosis referred to above and Miss Ps smoking history. Having seen the guidance and 
referral to its chief medical officer, Im satisfied that with the medical information it would 
have then had, LV wouldnt have offered Miss P a policy.
So I find that the misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA. LV has said it 
believes this was careless (rather than deliberate or reckless) and I agree this was fair. As it 
wouldnt have offered Miss P any cover had the medical question been answered correctly, 
LV has followed the guidance under CIDRA by cancelling the policy and refunding the 
premiums Miss P paid.
In all the circumstances I dont find that LV treated Miss P unfairly or unreasonably. It follows 
that I dont require it to take any further action. Im very sorry that my decision doesnt bring 
Miss P more welcome news.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman