DRN-3338740
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as H has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance complaint. 
Mrs H and Mr I, directors of H, have complained on Hs behalf. 
What happened
H held a policy with Covea. H claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-
19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
Covea turned down Hs claim. They said while the policy covered a specified list of diseases, 
Covid-19 wasnt one of the diseases covered. They said they had also considered the 
extension for public emergency but that excluded cover where the loss was as a result of an 
infectious or contagious disease. 
Unhappy with Coveas response, H brought its complaint to our service. It didnt think it was 
fair for Covea to decline its claim given the considerable impact on its business. 
Our investigator looked into Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
H asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Hs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Covea have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Hs claim. 
Damage
The core business interruption section of the policy and the extension for denial of access 
both require the interruption to Hs business to have been as a result of damage to property. 
The policy defines damage as physical loss or destruction of or damage to Property.
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property which led to the 
interruption of Hs business, so these parts of the policy dont provide cover. 
Disease
The relevant part of this extension says:
The insurance by this Section extends to include interruption of or interference 
with Your Business in consequence of closure of the Premises or part thereof on 
the order advice or stipulation of any government or local authority as a result of
1) any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) 
manifested by any person whilst at the Premises, or within a 25 mile radius of 
the Premises
Disease is defined in the policy as being a specified list of diseases that doesnt include 
Covid-19. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar policies on the market that 
provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, eg policies which covered all notifiable 
diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Hs policy is not like this  it 
sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording 
of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. 
So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases.
The list of covered diseases does include SARS, so Ive considered whether this would
extend to cover Covid-19. However, I dont think SARS and Covid-19 are the same disease.
The Governments list of notifiable diseases lists them as two separate diseases. And the
World Health Organisation has also confirmed that while related, the two viruses are
different, and it announced that Covid-19 was the name of this new disease on 11
February 2020. So based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably say that
these two diseases are the same. Therefore, this extension doesnt provide cover for Hs 
claim.
Public emergency
This extension says:
The Extension provides cover for the actions or advice of a competent Public 
Authority due to an emergency likely to endanger life or Property in the vicinity of 
the Premises which prevents or hinders the use of or access to the Premises; 
excluding:
1) any loss during the first 4 hours
2) any period other than the actual period when access to the Premises was 
prevented
3) any loss occurring in Northern Ireland4) infectious or contagious diseases
In reaching a decision, one of the things Im required to take into account, is the relevant law.
I think the High Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys test case is relevant to 
Hs complaint, because the High Court considered a similar term to that within H policy and 
this part of the judgment wasnt appealed to the Supreme Court.
Paragraph 376 of the judgment says:
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in
the 21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an
infectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out applies and there is no cover under
either [this type of] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of
the premises.
I see no reason to depart from the position reached by the Court. I think Hs premises
closed as a result of Covid-19, which the World Health Organisations website describes as
an infectious disease. Therefore, there is no cover for Hs claim.
I recognise this isnt the outcome H was hoping for, given the considerable impact to its 
business but, having considered the matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require 
Covea to pay its claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman