DRN-3646763
The complaint
Mr G has complained about poor customer service from Barclays Bank UK PLC.
 
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 8 July 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. Barclays has also accepted it made some mistakes. In addition, our 
decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead to 
Mr G being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite 
brief.
I am very sorry to note that Mr Gs wife recently passed away, and I would like to pass on my 
condolences to Mr G and his family. The complaint arose out of those sad circumstances, 
and so I fully appreciate how distressing this has been for Mr G.
Mr G and his wife had a joint mortgage. After Mrs G passed away Mr G says he was told by 
Barclays that Mrs G had a life assurance policy that would pay out a £50,000 lump sum that 
would be used to reduce the mortgage.
During a telephone call with Barclays, Mr G was told the mortgage repayment for March 
2022 had been received. This was later returned unpaid. After another payment was missed, 
Mr G received correspondence from Barclays about this which he found distressing. In 
addition, Barclays sent a letter and a chequebook addressed to Mr Gs late wife.
Mr G complained and Barclays looked into what had happened. Barclays couldnt find any 
evidence of having told Mr G there was a life assurance policy.  Barclays sent Mr G a letter 
from a mortgage advisor Mr and Mrs G had seen in the past which noted that Mr and Mrs G 
had declined to take out life assurance through Barclays. The bank also apologised for 
sending out a letter and chequebook addressed to Mr Gs late wife. The bank offered £150 
compensation for this.
Unhappy at the banks response, Mr G brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. He remained adamant that Barclays had said there was a policy in place and that 
the mortgage would be covered by this. He wanted the bank to collect on the policy and 
reduce his mortgage balance.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think Barclays needed to do anything 
further. The investigator explained to Mr G that there was no evidence of a policy taken out 
through Barclays or linked to the mortgage account. It might well be that Mrs G had a policy 
with a different provider, but Barclays had no knowledge of this. The investigator thought the 
£150 offered by Barclays for the customer service issues was fair in all the circumstances.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators findings. He was adamant that hed spoken to someone 
at Barclays who had confirmed that his mortgage would be covered by a life assurance 
policy.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Customer service issues: Barclays has acknowledged that it shouldnt have told Mr G that 
his mortgage payment had been received on the day it fell due. This is because it can take 
several days for a payment to be returned unpaid by Mr Gs bank. The bank has also 
accepted that Mr G was caused distress and upset by receiving a letter about mortgage 
arrears and a letter addressed to Mrs G enclosing a chequebook.
Barclays offered £150 for the distress and inconvenience this caused Mr G. I think this is fair 
in all the circumstances.
Life assurance policy: Mr Gs main point of concern is that he says he was told by Barclays 
that there was a policy in place that would pay out a £50,000 lump sum. Barclays says it 
didnt tell Mr G this. 
Having reviewed the evidence, including the call recordings provided by Barclays, I have 
found no evidence that the bank told Mr G there was a policy in place. 
Mr G places great reliance on a particular call recording, which I have listened to (as well as 
all the other recordings). I can see there was a conversation about a policy, but the gist of 
this was that the bank was asking about the policy details, which Mr G confirmed his son 
was dealing with direct with the policy provider  a company complete separate from, and 
unrelated to, Barclays. Mr G was given a phone number for the policy provider. Mr G said at 
one point that he thought the policy decreased with the mortgage balance, but Barclays 
explained that if the cover was for £50,000, this would be enough to pay off the mortgage.
I note that in 2010 and 2012 when arranging further advances or new mortgage products, 
Mr and Mrs G had declined to take out insurance cover on the mortgage. Ive also noted that 
in 2020 Mr and Mrs G took out a further advance on their mortgage, following which they 
were sent a letter dated 6 March 2020 confirming their decision to decline to arrange 
mortgage protection cover through Barclays.
In all the circumstances, Im unable to find that Barclays has done anything wrong here. I 
dont know if there is a policy in place through an insurance company  if there is, Mr Gs or 
Mrs Gs historic bank statements should show a monthly premium paid to a policy provider. 
But I think Mr G may have misunderstood the position and mistakenly thought that Barclays 
had confirmed a policy was in place arranged with the bank, when Barclays was simply 
asking if there was a policy and explaining how any such policy would affect the mortgage.
Given this, although I understand how upsetting this has been for Mr G, there is no basis on 
which I can find that Barclays should make any payment to reduce the mortgage.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied the £150 
compensation offered by Barclays for poor customer service is fair and reasonable. I simply 
leave it to Mr G to decide if he wants to accept it in full and final settlement of his complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman