DRN-3290302
The complaint
Mr G has complained that he was unsuitably advised by Central Markets Investment 
Management Ltd (CMIM), as a trustee of his Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS), to 
make investments within the scheme including a discretionary managed portfolio and a 
Cape Verde hotel development of The Resort Group (TRG). Mr G is represented by a claims 
management company (CMC) in this complaint.
What happened
In late 2013 Mr G was a process operator aged 53, married with no dependent children and 
earning about £14,000pa. He only had one existing pension plan valued at roughly £52,000 
and also owned a mortgage-free property that was valued between £75,000 - £85,000. 
Mr G has told us that he was cold-called with an offer to improve his pension, and he said 
that he would need to have someone like a financial adviser to discuss those matters. The 
caller said that could be arranged for him, and someone then came round to his house to 
discuss transferring his pension into a SSAS in order to invest in Cape Verde. He thought 
the company was called Your Choice Pensions (YCP). 
When he spoke to the person in his house, he said that he didnt want to put all of his 
pension in one investment, and he remembers being sold a portfolio of stocks and shares 
alongside the Cape Verde investment.
We know that at around that time YCP, an unregulated introducer firm, was working with 
CMIM and sent letters to prospective candidates for the TRG investment and CMIMs 
Discretionary Fund Management (DFM) service. Other clients introduced to CMIM by YCP 
had signed CMIMs terms of business at around this time. 
CMIM cant locate a copy of its terms of business signed by Mr G, but it has supplied us with 
a generic copy and says It was usual practice for the Terms of Business to be signed in the 
presence of the introducing intermediary at [Mr G]s home. Its also clear from the wider 
circumstances of this case that CMIM entered into a client relationship with Mr G as trustee, 
as we have evidence of him signing an account application form for CMIM to provide the 
DFM service including a U.S. withholding tax form on 20 November 2013. So, I believe its 
likely the terms of business were also signed. 
The terms agreed that CMIM would provide a letter of advice in relation to TRG for the 
purposes of s.36 of the Pensions Act 1995 (PA95). This section requires trustees of an 
occupational pension scheme such as a SSAS to obtain and consider written advice on the 
question whether the investment is satisfactory having regard to the requirements of 
regulations under subsection (1), so far as relating to the suitability of investments. s.36 
also warns that the advice required under this section may constitute the carrying on of a 
regulated activity under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA).)
CMIMs terms of business also clarified the following:
- CMIM was a regulated firm, but that the service it would provide was not regulated, as it 
related to an unregulated investment.
- It was providing the service to trustees of a SSAS.
- No advice was being given on investments regulated under s.22 of FSMA and other 
than the Cape Verde investment.
- No individual suitability advicewhich takes into account your personal financial 
circumstances was being given.
As part of the arrangements to transfer Mr Gs pension, on 14 November 2013 a new 
employer was incorporated; named after the road in which he lives. A SSAS was then 
established by trust deed and registered with HMRC for Mr Gs new employer - with him as 
sole trustee, and Cantwell Grove Ltd (CGL) as SSAS administrator. CGL SSASs had an 
annual fee of £500+VAT. 
YCP wrote to Mr G on 11 December 2013: Please find enclosed written advice on your 
proposed investment into commercial property in Cape Verde. This advice has been provided by 
Central Markets Investment Management Limited under your instruction for your consideration.
Mr Gs CMC has also sent us a copy of the enclosed written advice  a so-called dear 
Trustee letter. This does not refer to the trustee by name and mentions that the business 
has been introduced by YCP. It repeats that CMIM is providing the trustee with advice that it 
understands to be unregulated, because a SSAS is not regulated (and furthermore, the TRG 
investment involves direct ownership in property). It goes on:
We have researched the commercial property investment, The Resort Group, the hotel operator 
(Melia Hotels International), and the wider aspects of ownership and security; and our conclusion 
is that it is an appropriate investment albeit when considered in the light of sensible diversification 
of a portfolio of an investor's overall wealth and that an effective "exit" strategy is planned in order 
to coincide with the needs of the investor. The Resort Group have cooperated with our research.
In the letter CMIM explained the reference to diversification meant that its advice would be to 
consider other investments alongside the property investment that were low risk and 
unconnected with it. It went on later in the letter to promote its MVA Balanced Portfolio  a 
discretionary managed portfolio  for this purpose. And the reference to an exit strategy was 
that the trustee needed to plan ahead if they wanted to draw benefits from the SSAS  in 
particular purchasing an annuity. It went on to say (with my emphasis):
The investment is not suitable for a cautious investor who needs the protection of the UK investor 
compensation and regulatory environment, as both a SSAS and the overseas investment have no 
such regulatory protection. There are a range of risks that we have seen have been clearly 
documented to the investor and should be considered carefully: The value of any investment can 
fall as well as rise. Land or commercial property should not necessarily be considered as a liquid 
investment; it may therefore not be suitable should you need access to the capital at short notice 
or the timeframe desired by the trustee.
Commercial property investments tend to incur ongoing costs and charges, which may not always 
be covered by any possible rental returns. The value of rental returns is dependent on occupancy 
demand, which cannot be guaranteed. Investments held overseas may have additional risks such 
as currency fluctuations, which may impact on any returns when converted back into sterling; 
political risk to ownership and title; and commercial risk to the delivery and management of a 
property/resort. You may wish to take independent legal advice to ensure you understand all these 
issues
Our view is that the investment is appropriate but only as part of a diversified holding according to 
an investor's attitude to risk and capacity for withstanding loss. You should ensure that you only 
invest what you can afford to loseWe believe as core principles that where an investor is looking 
to retire within ten years then no more than 50% of their investment should be invested directly 
within commercial property, and the remainder should be held in liquid investments. Our advice to 
investors is to consider the need for diversification carefully
We have not reviewed other overseas commercial property investment opportunities and 
accordingly are not providing you with advice as to the merits of the proposed investment as against other such investment opportunities. If you still have any doubts we recommend that you 
seek independent financial advice
Ultimately, you, as trustee, will take your own decision in the light of your personal 
circumstances, which we have not assessed.
On 28 February 2014 CMIM completed an assessment of appropriateness document - but I 
understand its position to be that this related to the appropriateness of the DFM portfolio, 
rather than TRG.
It appears that shortly after this the transfer from Mr Gs existing pension to CGL took place. 
Mr Gs SSAS would have entered into an agreement for fractional ownership of a UK 
company limited by guarantee in order to invest in TRGs Dunas Beach Resort. The UK 
limited company held separate contracts with developers to build the property, and a third 
party to manage it. Companies House shows that the fractional ownership company Mr Gs 
SSAS invested in was formed on 26 June 2014. The wider evidence also suggests those 
sums in the SSAS which were not invested in TRG were placed into CMIMs DFM service.
CGL would have required Mr G to send it a templated letter specifying the amount he 
wanted to invest in TRG and the DFM service. These letters, others of which I have seen, 
say that advice has been obtained and considered from CMIM on the proposed investments; 
and that the trustee member believes CMIM to be appropriately qualified to assess the 
suitability and the need for diversification of those investments for the SSAS under s.36 of 
the Pensions Act 1995.
We dont have Mr Gs investment instruction letter, but there is also evidence on file that a 
dating error was later discovered with the SSAS trust deed and rules. It had to be wound up 
in October 2014, and a new SSAS formed by transferring all the assets in specie and 
otherwise mirroring the original SSAS. A further investment instruction letter was issued at 
that point, which mirrored the wording Ive given above. 
By February 2015 Mr G then seems to have been advised by Organic Investment 
Management to switch the DFM funds to Organic, as indeed I know other people who 
invested at the same time as Mr G did. On Mr Gs Organic application form a medium-low 
risk preference for growth over a 10+ year horizon was expressed. 
We dont have a copy of the original agreement for sale of Mr Gs SSASs investment in the 
fractional ownership company, but one dated 23 February 2015 for his replacement SSAS 
confirms the sum of £23,450 had already been invested in TRG. Ive also seen evidence that 
Mr G still held this investment in August 2021  the fractional ownership company was still 
writing to him  and we know that it hasnt been possible for owners of holdings in TRG to 
dispose of them.
Special discounts were offered on the purchase, usually paid back to investors by monthly 
instalments at 7%pa for a maximum period of the first two years  after which rental income 
was expected to be payable when the resort opened. As Ive seen a letter from TRG to Mr G 
stating that his resort (Dunas beach) had opened on 1 November 2014, his income would 
have been based on the occupancy of the resort thereafter. Income payments dried up in 
spring 2019 due to low occupancy of the resorts, and have not since recovered.
Mr G complained in March 2019 that the SSAS was wholly unsuitable for him and TRG was 
a wholly unsuitable asset to hold in his circumstances, given his capacity for loss and need 
to access the benefits. It referred to the complex administrative tasks and charges 
associated with running both the SSAS and sponsoring employer.
In September 2019 CMIM responded that it didnt sell the SSAS, and doesnt have an opinion on its suitability for any individual. It gave advice to a trustee that was complaint with 
PA95, and contained appropriate risk warnings including that TRG required diversification 
and wasnt appropriate for a cautious investor. 
Mr Gs CMC referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, highlighting also 
that the apparent inclusion of an Organic portfolio appeared inappropriate - as Organics 
operations were now being investigated by the FCA. (It appears the CMC was unaware that 
Mr G switched to Organic on separate advice.)
One of our investigators considered this complaint. In his view dated 17 January 2022 he 
referred to it being about advice to transfer from Mr Gs former pension arrangement to the 
SSAS and that chapter 9 (suitability) in the regulators handbook applied to the advice given. 
He concluded that in any event, CMIM should have advised Mr G not to invest in TRG: firstly 
because it was unsuitable for him as an unsophisticated investor, but secondly because to 
do otherwise would constitute promotion of an unregulated collective investment scheme 
(UCIS) contrary to the restriction on such promotions.
The investigator didnt receive a response to his view, and said that he would be putting the 
case to an ombudsman for a final decision. Subsequent to this, we received an email from 
CMIMs legal representative regarding the ongoing investigation, from which it was clear that 
they hadnt had sight of the view. The representative then told us that CMIM hadnt received 
the view either and it was resent to CMIMs representative directly on 28 July 2022.
The original view had given CMIM two weeks to reply and CMIM indicated that it would 
make use of this further opportunity to respond. However, a further three weeks then 
passed, during which time this case was allocated to me to decide - as one of a number of 
similar disputes were considering against CMIM.
I reviewed the file and noticed there were a number of factual statements made in the 
investigators view which I would not agree with, and indeed CMIM would be aware of this 
from previous decisions I had issued. So I considered it would be of benefit for me to write to 
CMIM again. I sent an email to CMIMs legal representative on 16 August 2022. In that 
email, I said:
- I believe the investigator has mis-stated that the complaint is about the advice to transfer and 
that [Mr G] should have been advised by CMIM not to transfer. As you'll be aware, CMIM was not 
engaged to give advice on the merits of transferring to Cantwell Grove SSASs, so I will not be 
considering that aspect. It may well be however that I agree with the investigator (as I have done 
on other complaints) that [Mr G] should have been advised not to invest in TRG, and that would 
have led to him aborting the transfer to his SSAS and remaining with his previous provider.
- The investigator has addressed the financial promotion aspect and I agree with what he's said on 
this. However, he has incorrectly in my view stated that COBS 9 applies regarding the suitability of 
advice in this case.
- As you'll be aware, I've taken the view that COBS 9 does not apply as no personal 
recommendation was made. Nevertheless, I have on other cases agreed with the investigators' 
views that the (generic) advice to invest in TRG was inappropriate in a wider sense in terms of the 
FCA principles, the FCA's well-publicised views on the typically small amount (if any) an investor 
should be expected to put in UCIS, and also the stated purpose of the advice which was to enable 
the trustee to obtain appropriate advice within the meaning of the Pensions Act. That is of course 
overlaid by the fact that I do not consider CMIM should have played a role in promoting TRG in the 
first place by advising in favour of it.
- I note the investigator has awarded £500 for distress and inconvenience. Having considered the 
awards I've made on other complaints - and noting that there doesn't appear to be a particular 
reason that [Mr G] was affected more significantly than those other complainants  I intend to 
revise that award to £300 if I uphold the complaint.I made it clear in this email to CMIMs legal representative that I would proceed to make a 
final decision on the complaint if my review of the case did not find further disagreement with 
the investigators overall view. I said that I would consider any further points CMIM wished to 
raise by 23 August 2022 but otherwise, I would take into account a recent response it had 
provided on a similar complaint on 26 May 2022. 
We havent heard further from CMIM or its representative, so firstly Ill give a summary of the 
main points CMIM had told us previously over the course of considering a number of 
complaints, before its letter of 26 May 2022:
The investment 
CMIM accepts that TRG appears to meet the legal definition of a collective investment 
scheme, albeit an unregulated one, following Asset Land v FCA [2016] UKSC 17), 
although it didnt realise this at the time.
The parameters of CMIMs advice and promotion of the investment
CMIM was first approached by YCP in mid-2013 and entered into an introducing agent 
agreement with it. Its only financial benefit arose out of the opportunity to promote its 
DFM service. It attended numerous meetings with the SSAS marketers, including YCP.
CMIMs terms of business materially differed from those used in FCA-regulated advice,   
to ensure that the trustees understood the purpose of the dear Trustee letter. It plainly 
was not contracting to provide advice that was regulated by the FCA. It wasnt 
necessary for CMIM to make itself aware of the personal and financial circumstances 
of the trustees or their attitude to risk, except for managing the DFM investment.
If CMIM had been asked to provide such advice it would have declined, as it did not 
have an adviser suitably qualified to provide individual advice in relation to a SSAS.
The dear Trustee letter didnt amount to a significant step in Mr G making the 
investment given the warnings it contained, so it didnt constitute a financial promotion. 
It also encouraged him to seek independent advice from an IFA.
CMIMs advice
At no point did CMIM recommend or influence cautious investors to invest in TRG. It 
concluded that TRG was risky, only appropriate when considered as part of a diverse 
portfolio of investments where an effective exit strategy was planned. It promoted its 
DFM services as an alternative and/or as diversification  as it was a low risk 
portfolio of Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) of major, liquid, equity indices and bonds.
The dear Trustee letter was general in nature, not addressed to a named recipient 
and, most significantly, not specific as to the actual resort to be invested in or the 
amount of money involved. It contained ample warnings against investing. It was 
equally unreasonable to make a connection that anyone investing in TRG would not 
necessarily regard themselves as someone unneeding of easy access to liquid funds.
The responsibility of others
CGL presumably carried out its own due diligence into TRG, but still required trustees 
to sign a letter deliberately misrepresenting CMIM as the provider of a personal 
recommendation and subject to COBS 9 (suitability) in the FCA handbook. Naming 
CMIM gave the advice that others were giving Mr G the intended air of credibility.
The people that promoted TRG were the original introducers, and that extended to 
CGL given the correspondence it prepared for Mr G to authorise the investment. It was 
wholly unfair and unjust to attribute Mr Gs loss 100% to CMIM. 
YCP referred to CGL as its partner SSAS Administrator and CGL said they were 
specialists in the field of SSAS pensions. So the lack of consideration of whether 
inexperienced investors were suitable for SSASs was both reckless and negligent.
CGL was complicit in every step necessary for Mr G to make the investment, and granted their consent to it, which it was in their interest to do as they received 
remuneration from the SSAS.
After approximately 9 months Mr Gs DFM arrangement moved to Organic Investment 
Management, so CMIM has no responsibility for how he was invested after that point.
Whether trustees relied on its advice
Before CMIM became involved, the trustees had already taken a series of positive 
actions to establishing an employer and SSAS under trust deed, and executing all the 
necessary agreements for the SSAS to operate. It cannot be argued that they were 
induced to take any of these actions by CMIM.
It is a fundamental premise in law that an act of providing negligent advice or 
information is not, in itself, sufficient to determine the cause(s) of financial loss incurred 
by the recipient of that advice. The courts must consider whether such breaches of 
duty of care were the causes of the trustees loss.
Trustees received their dear Trustee letter very close to the date stated on their Trust 
Deeds to establish SSASs. No reliance was placed on this letter as the trustees had 
already decided to invest in TRG. They also had their own statutory duties as trustees 
to invest prudently. So, the dear Trustee letter might just as well have not existed. 
CMIM has also made some observations in the past on redress, which Ill address when I 
reach that point in my decision.
Ive then reviewed CMIMs more recent letter to this service dated 26 May 2022 on another 
case. This has been sent in the knowledge of the outcomes of other complaints this service 
has decided. For the main part, it re-states many of the points Ive already summarised 
above. I note that it sets out in more detail why CMIM considers its dear Trustee letter  
presented a balanced view that gave ample warning against the suitability of TRG as an 
investment for a SSAS pension, because:
a. they were unsuitable to the cautious investor [who would also require compensatory and 
regulatory protection: CMIM considers its erroneous reference to TRG being unregulated would 
still have put the trustee on notice of a problem here]; 
b. that property values are variable [and subject to currency and political risks]; 
c. that such investments are regarded as illiquid and so not suitable to those who needed access 
to their pension funds; 
d. that the costs and charges associated with property investments were often unmet by the 
investments returns; and 
e. that their consideration as an investment was only appropriate when part of a balanced portfolio 
of investments.
In CMIMs view, therefore, it did not breach Principle 9 (to ensure the suitability of its advice). 
Further, CMIM said that:
The question of whether or not the trustee saw, read and digested the Dear Trustee letter stands 
higher in consideration to the issue of whether the letter itself was compliant with the regulations 
or, even, whether CMIM inadvertently acted outside of the Rules by not understanding that the 
TRG investment was a regulated product, being a collective investment scheme.
CMIM denied that it had co-operated in any way with the introducers other than by 
paying them an introduction fee if the trustee made use of its DFM service.
It made repeated further points about CGLs greater complicity in inducing, setting up 
and co-ordinating the investment within the SSAS.
It reiterated that the onus was on the trustee (not CMIM) under PA95 to obtain proper 
advice and questioned whether the trustees had produced a statement of investment 
principles under s35 of that Act.
CMIM was not bound to follow the regulators Principles in any event because it was 
providing advice for a different purpose (s.36 PA95).Because the client was the trustee, not the beneficiary of the SSAS, and the advice 
letter was generic in nature, this meant it did not constitute designated investment 
business. That meant COBS 2.1.1R (to act in the clients best interests) did not apply 
unless the advice was of a specific, not of a general nature.
CMIMs advice did not meet all of the limbs of the definition of advice under the 
Markets in Financial Instruments [EU] Directive (MiFID); in particular it did not present 
a recommendation as being suitable for the recipient trustee.
It suggested this service is ignoring evidence from trustees who cannot recall 
receiving, or reading, the dear Trustee letter.
It reiterated that section 3 Liability in its terms of business said, among other things, 
 [we] are not legally liable to you in any way or for any Loss whatsoever in respect 
of  the performance or under-performance of the Cape Verde investment; .
CGL has separately informed this service that Prior to consenting to investments, as the 
scheme administrator, we would fully expect that the trustee would consider advice. The 
investment advice wouldnt necessarily need to be obtained from a regulated firm, however, 
it should be from a person or firm that has the relevant knowledge and experience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did CMIM make a personal recommendation for Mr G to invest in TRG?
Mr Gs receipt of CMIMs dear Trustee letter meant, in my view, that CMIM did carry out the 
regulated activity of advising on investments. This is defined in the FSMA 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (amongst other things) as advice on buying, selling, subscribing for or 
underwriting a particular investment which is a security or a relevant investment. (my 
emphasis).
At one point in its 26 May 2022 submission, CMIM appears to be suggesting that it didnt  
meet all the requirements under MiFID for this letter to even constitute advice at all. I dont 
find this plausible and it may be that CMIM was in fact referring to the definition of a personal 
recommendation here. The FCA refers to its own interpretation of generic advice at  PERG 
8.26.2 G (for example, advice on the merits of one type of investment versus another)  and 
its clear that CMIM went further than this in commenting on the suitability (even in general 
terms) of a specific investment in TRG. That is not, in the regulators view, generic advice of 
the sort that would not be regulated. 
CMIM appears to be suggesting that the advice was not specific enough because it didnt 
refer to the particular hotel, or the amount to be invested. But TRG had the characteristics of 
a UCIS  Mr G would be participating in a (named) pooled property scheme where the hotel 
resort (including shared facilities) would be operated as a whole. CMIM accepts this was a 
UCIS. It wasnt necessary for CMIM to refer to the number of the apartment that TRG 
denoted Mr Gs investment by to meet that definition.
For the avoidance of doubt, a unit in a collective investment scheme is a designated 
investment, making advice on the same designated investment business under the FCAs 
handbook glossary. So CMIMs argument that even COBS 2.1.1R (acting in the clients best 
interests) does not apply here is also wrong.
PERG 8.28.1 & 2 G set out that advice requires an element of opinion on the part of the 
adviser. In effect, it is a recommendation as to a course of action In general terms, simply 
giving information without making any comment or value judgement on its relevance to decisions which an investor may make is not advice.
In this regard its clear that CMIMs comments on the appropriateness of TRG for the 
trustees portfolio, albeit in generic terms, included such value judgements and therefore 
would constitute advice. As CMIM itself said, it attended numerous preliminary meetings 
with YCP or CGL and reviewed detailed documentation regarding the investment to ensure 
it was suitable for SSAS investment and as to risk. 
I do accept the further point CMIM is making however: advice given in 2014 that wasnt a 
personal recommendation wasnt caught by the detailed suitability rules in chapter 9 of the 
COBS rulebook. And I agree that CMIM didnt set out to make a personal recommendation 
to Mr G. It said in the terms of business that it wasnt giving individual suitability 
advicewhich takes into account your personal financial circumstances. And the end of its 
dear Trustee letter reminds Mr G that it hadnt assessed those circumstances. Mr G hadnt 
met anyone from CMIM, nor had any fact finding had been done by it.
On balance, I think Mr G ought to have realised that the dear Trustee letter was a prompt 
for him to consider if he met the circumstances of the person being described in that letter as 
an appropriate investor into TRG. It left him to some of the work: was he cautious or more 
tolerant of risk? Did he require access to the funds during the expected duration of the 
investment? If Mr G felt he met those criteria I can see why CMIMs advice would have 
carried more weight to him than one issued to the public at large: after all, he had personally 
contracted with CMIM for it to provide this advice. But that doesnt of itself mean it was truly 
a personal recommendation, and Im not persuaded that it was.
If theres no personal recommendation, COBS 9 doesnt apply. But that also isnt the end of 
this complaint. CMIM has still given advice in the dear Trustee letter, which isnt negated by 
it separately encouraging him to seek further independent advice. And its open to me to 
consider whether its advice is consistent with the regulators wider principles (set out at 
PRIN in the rulebook), and other COBS rules that arent in chapter 9.
In respect of PRIN and COBS, I dont think CMIM can fairly and reasonably exclude all 
liability for losses on the TRG investment by saying so in its terms of business  this would 
be a breach of COBS 2.1.2 R:
A firm must not, in any communication relating to designated investment business seek to:
(1) exclude or restrict; or
(2) rely on any exclusion or restriction of;
any duty or liability it may have to a client under the regulatory system.
Whether I consider CMIM is responsible for Mr Gs losses is a matter for the facts of this 
case. Its also unarguable that CMIM isnt bound by PRIN because it said in its terms of 
business that it would be giving the advice for the purposes of s.36 PA95 rather than under 
FCA regulation. CMIM is an FCA regulated firm and is bound by its principles. Ill return to 
arguments on COBS and PRIN later in my decision. But first, its important to note that as 
TRG was a UCIS, the restrictions to promotion at s.238 FSMA would also apply.
Did CMIM promote the TRG investment to Mr G, ancillary to its advice?
The glossary definition of promotion is the FCA handbook is an invitation or inducement
to engage in investment activity that is communicated in the course of business. The words 
invitation or inducement are not defined in the glossary or under the corresponding s.21 of 
FSMA. Under the guidance at PERG 8.4.5G Im not satisfied CMIMs dear Trustee letter 
had the characteristics of an invitation, essentially because it seems other third parties had
already invited Mr G to consider TRG as an investment. But at PERG 8.4.7G the FCA went 
on to say this about inducements, with my emphasis:An inducement may be described as a link in a chain where the chain is intended to lead 
ultimately to an agreement to engage in investment activity. But this does not mean that all the 
links in the chain will be an inducement or that every inducement will be one to engage in 
investment activity. Only those that are a significant step in persuading or inciting or seeking to 
persuade or incite a recipient to engage in investment activity will be inducements under s.21.
I appreciate CMIM is arguing that Mr G had already decided to invest in TRG, so the dear 
Trustee letter would not have been pivotal in his thinking. However I dont think this is 
relevant to what CMIMs intent was, as highlighted above. The FCA clarified this further at 
PERG 8.4.4G, again with my emphasis:
The FCA considers that it is appropriate to apply an objective test to decide whether a 
communication is an invitation or an inducement. In the FCA's view, the essential elements of an 
invitation or an inducement under section 21 are that it must both have the purpose or intent of 
leading a person to engage in investment activity and be promotional in nature. So it must seek, on 
its face, to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in investment activity. The objective test may 
be summarised as follows. Would a reasonable observer, taking account of all the circumstances 
at the time the communication was made:
( 1 ) consider that the communicator intended the communication to persuade or incite the 
recipient to engage in investment activity or that that was its purpose; and
( 2 ) regard the communication as seeking to persuade or incite the recipient to engage in 
investment activity.
Its clear that the dear Trustee letter was intended to lead trustees to making an investment. 
A reasonable conclusion to be drawn was that only trustees who were cautious and/or 
needed short-term access to the money shouldnt invest. And I think CMIM would have 
known this was an unlikely conclusion for most of the recipients to draw, in the context of:
- the advice being given on a pension, which is typically held for the long-term;
- the risks CMIM highlighted in the letter were being mitigated by the strategy it was 
proposing to diversify their investment with a DFM arrangement held alongside it;
- no indication being given to the trustee to understand whether they met this cautious 
definition.
In relation to the final point, CMIM says that was why it encouraged Mr G to take his own 
regulated advice. In my view that doesnt explain why it set out its letter in a way that allowed 
him to infer that he could go ahead without that advice if he wasnt cautious or needing
short-term access to funds. I also dont think its a coincidence that the dear Trustee letter 
was written in this way. CMIM stood to gain business from being able to provide DFM 
services, if a trustee went ahead with the TRG part of the investment.
It would have been apparent to CMIM that other third parties had quite a lot of influence over 
what the trustees did, as this is the basis of much of its arguments now. So, it was unlikely to 
receive the DFM business if it discouraged the investment in TRG. I think that, given this 
clear intention, CMIMs dear Trustee letter was a significant step in persuading Mr G to 
make the investment. Notwithstanding CMIMs observations about how much attention Mr G 
paid to it at the time, he would then have signed an instruction declaring that he had regard 
for it in making his investment decision. If CMIM didnt realise this is what would follow then it 
should have done, given it said it was giving its advice for the purposes of PA95.
Whether or not (in CMIMs view) Mr G was simply signing where a third party told him 
shouldnt have diminished that this was a highly significant step. It made CMIMs advice an 
inducement that meant it was promoting the investment. CMIM seems to have taken the 
view that both YCP and CGL were inducing Mr G to invest because of vested interests, yet it 
was not. That simply doesnt stand up to scrutiny.
My view that this was a promotion is underlined by the fact that on 1 January 2014 FCA 
revised the list of exemptions at COBS 4.12.4R to clarify that a personal recommendation on a non-mainstream pooled investment could, as a promotion, qualify for an exemption in 
certain limited circumstances. This underlines that advising on (and not just personally 
recommending) an investment could always have amounted to a promotion: the very nature 
of promotion means that it does not have to be targeted to a specific individual.
That is what happened here: CMIM promoted and advised on the investment (even though 
YCP may also have promoted it originally, and even though didnt make a personal 
recommendation).
Did Mr G qualify for a relevant exemption from the restrictions on UCIS promotion? 
Mr G is unlikely to have qualified under the criteria set out in the FSMA (Promotion of
Collective Investment Schemes) (Exemptions) Order 2001, because he didnt appear to be a 
high net worth or sophisticated investor. This was not established at the time by CMIM (as 
required under the regulations) and has not been suggested since. This leaves the range of 
exemptions set out at COBS 4.12.1R, most of which werent available because Mr G doesnt 
appear to have been high net worth or sophisticated and didnt have any of the other 
professions or roles specified.
As Mr G received the dear trustee letter before 1 January 2014, the only other relevant 
COBS exemption was a Category 2 person, being both someone:
for whom the firm has taken reasonable steps to ensure that investment in the collective 
investment scheme is suitable; and
who is an 'established' or 'newly accepted' client of the firm or of a person in the same group as 
the firm
Mr G was not an established client of CMIM, and explanatory notes confirm that a newly 
accepted client required a written agreement relating to designated investment business (i.e. 
activities which were regulated by the FCA). Mr Gs agreement with CMIM specifically 
excluded such regulated activities, so he could not have met the definition of a newly 
accepted client.
The only reasonable conclusion I can therefore draw from this is that CMIM unlawfully 
promoted the TRG investment to Mr G, in contravention of s.238 of FSMA. Moreover it ought 
reasonably to have been aware that other parties who promoted the investment to
Mr G previously were likely also in contravention of FSMA  because they were themselves 
unregulated and/or couldnt rely on a valid exemption either.
CMIMs position that Mr G paid no attention to or was misled by the dear Trustee letter
CMIM believes CGLs reference to the dear Trustee letter was intentionally misleading, as it 
encouraged Mr G to confirm that he believed CMIM to be an appropriately qualified adviser 
for the purposes of PA95  meaning that in effect Mr G thought hed received suitability 
advice. I dont find this misleading to the extent that it would materially alter CMIMs 
culpability, as this pre-supposes that Mr G would have understood the difference between 
advice and suitability advice.
Mr G was a lay-trustee, which CMIM knew, and unsophisticated in financial matters. Our 
investigators conversation with Mr G confirmed this. So I think the most he would have 
reasonably understood was that he was getting an appropriately qualified opinion on 
whether he should include TRG in his SSAS (or in laymans terms and as implied by s.36 of 
PA95, its suitability for his SSAS). I cant see that Mr G misunderstood CMIMs role if it now 
considers it wasnt appropriately qualified to give that advice. And at a fundamental level, I 
dont think his inclination (or otherwise) to read the dear Trustee letter materially alters the 
outcome because, as Ive set out above:
Whether something counts as an inducement depends in part on how it would be received by a reasonable person; not necessarily someone (Mr G) that CMIM 
considers wasnt inclined to read the letter.
Whether it was also a significant step in securing the investment is largely answered 
by the fact CGL required Mr G to take this advice, irrespective of the level of attention 
he paid to it.
So, its plainly wrong to say that this letter might just as well have not existed, as the 
investment in my view was promoted unlawfully - and that fundamentally affects the 
outcome of the complaint.
CMIM says its name was used to give the arrangements an air of credibility. But in my view 
it should have gone into this with its eyes open. It attended meetings with the other parties 
involved where a whole sales and marketing strategy was apparently discussed to attract 
new clients to invest in TRG. Yet it now says it should have been obvious to CGL that those 
clients were wholly inappropriate candidates for SSASs. These arguments actually serve to 
demonstrate very well why CMIM shouldnt have got involved in inducing Mr Gs investment 
into TRG at all. It knew that none of the other parties in the transaction were regulated by the 
FCA and it could not, as a result, expect them to share its duty of care to clients.
What should CMIM have done instead?
In addition to the FCA Principles, CMIM was bound by COBS 2.1.1R (the client's best 
interests rule) and COBS 4.2.1R (ensuring a communication or a financial promotion is fair, 
clear and not misleading). These COBS rules were not part of chapter 9 (suitability) and still 
applied if CMIM was advising on investments.
In any event, its just as difficult to see how advice that was stated in the terms of business to 
enable a trustee to make investment decisions for his SSAS under s.36 of PA95 could not 
be personalised to that trustee. PA95 itself makes references to suitability and 
diversification, but I should note here that the requirement for a formal statement of 
investment principles (s.35) - to which CMIM has referred - wouldnt apply to a one-member 
SSAS. However PA95 says other regulations may specify further criteria. 
Again owing to the small size of the SSAS, most of the regulations in the Occupational 
Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations 2005 dont cover Mr Gs SSAS. But regulation 7 
does and this states that:
the trustees of the scheme in exercising their powers of investment, and any fund manager to 
whom any discretion has been delegated under section 34 of the 1995 Act in exercising the 
discretion, must have regard to the need for diversification of investments, in so far as 
appropriate to the circumstances of the scheme.
This precise wording was reflected in the investment instructions CGL required Mr G to sign.
And I cant fairly say it was possible for Mr G to obtain advice on whether TRG was suitable, 
and provided adequate diversification for the circumstances of his SSAS, without a 
recommendation being made specifically in respect of the requirements and objectives of 
that SSAS. Furthermore, amongst the FCAs Principles CMIM was required to:
conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2);
take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, 
with adequate risk management systems (Principle 3);
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6);
take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions 
for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment (Principle 9).
I have significant concerns about an arrangement CMIM entered into that effectively meant it 
could only track who the end recipients of its dear Trustee letter in respect of TRG were if 
YCP passed on a trustees signed copy of its terms of business, or it later found theyd signed up for its DFM service. That calls into question whether CMIM was adhering to 
Principle 3. I also think Principle 9 is particularly relevant here, as it refers to the care CMIM 
should take in formulating advice; even if it is advice that is not a personal recommendation 
to which the more detailed provisions of COBS 9 apply.
Under these principles and rules, I think there were only really two routes CMIM could take:
1.Decline to get involved in the introducer-adviser relationship with YCP, and therefore 
come into contact with clients like Mr G at all; or
2.Agree to accept introductions from YCP, but proceed on a basis which was 
fundamentally different in a number of respects in order to ensure that it was 
complying with the principles and rules:
Take reasonable care to make a personal recommendation to Mr G, which was 
tailored to his specific circumstances and thus was more likely to pay due regard 
to his best interests and treat him fairly.
Note that if the recommendation was not to invest, this would not amount to 
promotion and so the restriction wouldnt be breached.
Ensure it issued that recommendation to Mr G directly, rather than supplying it via 
third parties (where there was potentially some doubt whether it would reach 
Mr G, if the advice didnt give a favourable impression of investing).
Ive carefully considered what the possible consequences of CMIM taking either of these two 
routes might have been. Clearly no third party could make CMIM give advice that was 
positively in favour of investing in TRG. So if CMIM declined to get involved or wanted to 
ensure it made direct personal recommendations, I accept its possible that those parties 
would have looked to tie up with a different adviser hoping to get a more favourable 
outcome. However the wording of PA95 meant that the proper advice Mr G was required to 
take couldnt be given by just any adviser. s.36 states:
For the purposes of this section proper advice means
(a) if the giving of the advice constitutes the carrying on, in the United Kingdom, of a regulated 
activity (within the meaning of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000), advice given 
by a person who may give it without contravening the prohibition imposed by section 19 of 
that Act (prohibition on carrying on regulated activities unless authorised or exempt);
(b) in any other case, the advice of a person who is reasonably believed by the trustees to be 
qualified by his ability in and practical experience of financial matters and to have the 
appropriate knowledge and experience of the management of the investments of trust 
schemes
Whether or not the other parties realised that any advice on TRG was a regulated activity, it 
wasnt surprising that typically the relevant knowledge and experience to give that advice 
was more likely to be found amongst regulated firms. And I would also expect any regulated
adviser to be as mindful of the FCAs principles and rules as CMIM should have been. So 
they too should have considered the position on promotion; whether a personal 
recommendation would be expected by the regulator; and the consequences of them giving 
advice in favour of investing that couldnt be supported by a valid exemption.
CMIM had the option to refuse to get involved in advising Mr G at all, and it chose not to take 
that route. So I think its fair and reasonable that CMIM is held to the standard of a proper 
personal recommendation that it should have given to Mr G to satisfy the regulators 
expectations and those of PA95.
What would have happened if CMIM gave suitable advice?
As a regulated firm with permission to advise on investments, Im satisfied CMIM should 
have been aware of the regulators views on UCIS and other non-mainstream investments. 
So it ought to have known that investment in UCIS (particularly for an unsophisticated retail investor) shouldnt take up more than a small part of the investors overall assets  if their 
attitude to risk even allows them to make such an investment at all.
CMIM didnt assess Mr Gs attitude to risk but, according to his later application form for 
Organic he doesnt seem to have been above a low-medium risk profile. It looks that he 
invested about half of the transfer proceeds in TRG. I dont consider that was consistent with 
what we know of his risk appetite.
TRG was an off-plan, offshore property development subject to a variety of currency, 
counterparty, construction and occupancy risks and was typically unsuited to an 
inexperienced investor like Mr G who wasnt wanting to take high risks, even if he did have 
some time until retirement.
Its evident that the whole reason for the SSAS being promoted to Mr G was in order to 
invest in TRG. And due to the dating of the covering letter to CMIMs dear Trustee letter, we 
know that Mr G received it at a time when his ceding provider was yet to transfer the funds. 
So I need to consider how he would have acted, if CMIM had made a proper personal 
recommendation that didnt involve TRG.
Mr G didnt have particularly close ties to making the investments recommended: hed simply 
been cold-called. As CMIM itself realises, it was brought on board to legitimise Mr Gs 
investment in TRG. But its advice should have far from legitimised the investment. It should 
have made very clear that it was unsuitable for him. Once it had given that advice I cant
safely say it could easily have been undone by any attempts the introducers might have 
made to refer Mr G to other advisers. And CGL appears to have wanted advice in favour of 
the TRG investment so that it could say the trustee was complying with PA95.
CGL told this service the advice wouldnt necessarily need to come from a regulated adviser, 
but Im mindful that an unauthorised firm recommending a collective investment scheme 
would be committing an actionable offence under FSMA. That would in my view make such 
a firm difficult to find, and their advice would in any event carry less credibility. It would also 
have played further into the checks Mr Gs existing provider would have been carrying out to 
mitigate against pension liberation/scams  these might have involved asking him if he was 
being advised by a regulated adviser, for example.
So on balance, Im persuaded its most likely that Mr G would have cancelled his request to 
transfer to the SSAS in its entirely - because the advice he was getting didnt support the 
investments being proposed by the introducer.
Should I only apportion part of Mr Gs losses to CMIM?
CMIM says that CGL was reckless and negligent given its professed level of experience. I 
understand the argument that CGL should have known that the dear Trustee letter couldnt 
satisfy the requirements (which it identified itself) of PA95. I didnt know whether Mr G 
intends to complain about CGLs actions, but occupational schemes arent within the 
Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction. In any case there is a higher bar against 
financial advisers, and this is reflected in the way they are regulated and rules they must 
follow. So its also understandable that Mr G has chosen to bring this complaint to us.
CMIM also says that Mr Gs own responsibilities as a trustee should be taken into account, 
but a trustee is just as entitled to appropriate advice as any consumer of financial services. 
CMIM was providing FCA-regulated advice to Mr G as the sole lay-trustee and, equally, had 
an opportunity to check for itself what the requirements of PA95 were. If it couldnt do that, it 
shouldnt have given the advice. I cant see a basis here on which it would be fair or 
reasonable for me allow CMIM to avoid the consequences of its own failings, even in part.I agree that if I were satisfied that Mr G would have chosen to transfer and invest in TRG 
come what may, it wouldnt be fair for me apportion any responsibility for compensating him 
to CMIM. Its not that principle that is in dispute. Rather it is whether I can, in fact, fairly say 
that on the balance of probabilities Mr G would still have gone ahead with transferring his 
pension in order to invest in TRG, had CMIM treated him fairly. And here, Im persuaded on 
the balance of probabilities that Mr G would have heeded the proper advice he was told he 
would get, and was entitled to expect, from CMIM.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr G in the position he would have been in, 
had he not gone ahead with transferring to the SSAS.
Central Markets Investment Management Limited must therefore contact Mr Gs ceding 
pension provider to obtain a notional value as at the date of my final decision, assuming that 
it continued to be invested in the same funds as it was at the point it was transferred out. As 
a condition of accepting this decision, Mr G will need to give CMIM his authority to obtain this 
information. 
The actual value of Mr Gs CGL SSAS (including the current proceeds of the DFM 
arrangements used) as at the date of my final decision should be deducted from the notional 
value to arrive at Mr Gs initial loss amount. (Any currently outstanding administration 
charges yet to be applied to the CGL SSAS should be removed from the actual value first.)
The actual value is difficult to determine where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be 
readily sold on the open market). That seems to be the case with the TRG holding in the 
CGL SSAS. Therefore as part of calculating compensation in respect of the TRG value:
CMIM should agree an amount with CGL SSAS as a commercial value for this 
investment, then pay the sum agreed to CGL SSAS plus any costs, and take 
ownership of it. The actual value used in the calculations should include anything 
CMIM has paid to CGL SSAS. The fractional ownership company, as a member of
which Mr G holds the TRG investment, should be consulted to achieve this.
Alternatively, if CMIM is unable to buy the investment from CGL SSAS it should value 
it as nil, as part of determining the actual value. In that event its also fair that Mr G 
should not be disadvantaged while he is unable to close down the CGL SSAS and 
move to a potentially cheaper arrangement. So to provide certainty to all parties, I 
think its fair that CMIM adds five years worth of future SSAS administration fees at 
the current tariff to the initial loss amount, to give a reasonable period of time for the 
SSAS to be closed.
CMIM has suggested to this service that it may be able to use independent valuers for the 
TRG investment, or agree a value with CGL (which is more than nil value), even if its not 
actually buying the investment from the SSAS. As there appears to be no market for the 
investment I dont consider its fair to use a value that is the opinion of someone who is not 
actually buying the investment from the SSAS.
I also cannot anticipate whether TRG and/or the fractional membership company will be 
permitting changes of ownership because clearly legal processes would be involved. But to 
the extent that this is possible, CMIM will have benefited from any value it thinks remains in 
the investment by buying it out of the SSAS. But if CMIM is unable to take ownership of the 
investment, it may ask Mr G instead to provide an undertaking in return, to account to it for 
the net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment in future.
The aim of this undertaking is to avoid double-recovery of Mr Gs losses. If CMIM wishes to 
do this the undertaking should be drawn up after compensation is paid  and CMIM will need to meet any associated costs. It is not my role to set the terms of the assignment and 
undertaking, but rather to explain its aim in achieving overall fairness for both parties. If 
CMIM asks Mr G to provide this undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be 
made dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
Payment of compensation
If there is an overall loss, CMIM should pay into the CGL SSAS, to increase its value by the 
initial loss amount. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. CMIM shouldnt pay into the CGL SSAS if this will conflict with any tax protections or 
allowances.
If CMIM is unable to pay the compensation into the CGL SSAS, it should pay it direct to 
Mr G. But had it been possible to pay into the CGL SSAS, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the initial loss amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Gs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. Here, its reasonable to assume that Mr G is likely to be 
a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, but 25% of the proceeds of the SSAS 
can be taken tax-free, meaning a reduction of 20% x 0.75 = 15%.
CMIM must also pay Mr G £300 for distress and inconvenience in view of the disruption 
caused to his retirement planning. Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr G in a 
clear, simple format.
If the ceding pension provider cannot provide a notional value
In this eventuality, CMIM will need to use a benchmark to provide a fair value for this policy 
and switch that for the notional value in its calculations. As I said above, Mr G seems to have 
been willing to take some risk to get a higher return, and at age 53 at the time of advice he 
was a fair way away from retirement. So I consider that the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Index on a Total Return basis would be the appropriate benchmark to use.
This index is made up of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities 
and government bonds. It doesnt mean that Mr G would specifically have made investments 
that exactly mirrored the return on this benchmark. For that reason CMIM should not be 
deducting investment costs or other charges from the benchmark. The view Im taking here 
is that the sort of funds Mr G would have remained invested in with his previous provider (if a 
notional value is unavailable) would typically have performed broadly in line with this 
benchmark; notwithstanding the charges (which would have been lower than the SSAS in 
any event). It is a proxy that is being used for the purposes of compensation.
If any withdrawals have been made from the SSAS then the gross amount of these 
withdrawals should also be deducted from the fair value or notional value at the point they 
were taken, so that they cease to feature in the calculation of growth.
Im also satisfied the losses or gains in the DFM portfolio form part of Mr Gs overall loss. I 
note the points CMIM has made about the steps it took to ensure that its own DFM portfolio 
was appropriate, which it cannot vouch for in the subsequent reinvestment with Organic 
(which it did not recommend). But Ive reached the conclusion that Mr G would have had no 
reason to be transferring his pension at all, but for CMIMs failings  and I dont think it likely 
his ceding provider would have permitted DFM as it was not a self-invested pension.
So including the present-day DFM value in the calculation is part of putting Mr G back into 
the position he would have been in, had CMIM not acted as it did. And that includes the 
subsequent changes of DFM provider which it seems were encouraged by the very same third parties which CMIM had agreed to get involved with (in a way which did not act in the 
best interests of Mr G and its other clients).
In all of the circumstances above I think its fair and reasonable for me to hold CMIM 
responsible for 100% of Mr Gs loss. Its a matter for CMIM whether it wishes to attempt to 
recover any of the compensation Im requiring it to pay from other parties. It may take an 
assignment of Mr Gs rights to pursue those parties as a further part of the above-mentioned 
undertaking, if it wishes to do so.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint and require Central Markets Investment Management Limited to 
pay him compensation as set out in the Putting things right section above. 
If Mr G accepts this decision and compensation is not paid within 28 days of CMIM being 
notified of his acceptance, interest must be added to my award at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of the final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman