DRN-1153257
Complaint
Mrs C says Canada Square Operations Limited (CSOL), trading at the time as Egg, mis-sold 
her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a new credit card in 
2002. 
Ill refer to CSOL throughout my decision because its now responsible for the sale.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into this case and didnt think Mrs C had been mis-sold the 
PPI policy. She disagreed and asked that an ombudsman make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
CSOL sent us its records which show the card was taken out over the internet. We know 
quite a bit about these types of sale because weve seen a few of them and as a 
consequence, we have a good understanding of the sales processes that normally took 
place and the documents that were generally used.
CSOL also sent us an example of the type of web-based form it thinks Mrs C would have 
filled out during her card application. It says she would have been presented with a yes / no 
choice about having PPI with her new card. CSOL says she would have had to choose one 
of the two options to be able to continue her way through the application and that she must 
have chosen the yes option on the screen for PPI to be added
We no longer have access to her actual application form, but this was all quite a long time 
ago and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. But I think its reasonable to 
say she would have had to make the PPI selection on this type of form and I also note that 
Mrs Cs monthly card statements were consistently showing the PPI being charged on her 
account. I think if she hadnt asked for the PPI, she would have wanted to know why she 
was being charged. 
Overall, I think this all shows she probably agreed to the PPI back in 2002.
CSOL didnt provide an advised sale because I think Mrs C would have made her own way 
through the on-line application in her own time and without any direct help from CSOL. This 
means CSOL needed only to provide her with enough information so she could decide for 
herself whether or not she wanted PPI.
I can accept CSOL might not have done everything right. But I also think Mrs C would have 
been sent a welcome letter explaining the PPI because Ive seen many other cases where that happened. CSOL sent us a copy of what this letter would have been like. I also think 
some things about the policy would have been present on the screen as she was filling the 
application form out. So I think shed have had information on which to base her decision 
about whether or not she wanted the cover.
I also dont think Mrs C was caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these 
policies. And because it cost £0.69 for every £100 outstanding on her monthly credit card 
balance, I think it would have been affordable for her. In the event of a successful claim on 
the PPI policy, Mrs C would have also been able to have her outstanding balance reduced 
by 10% each month for up to 12 months. 
Looking at her overall situation therefore, I think this is probably why she chose the PPI on 
her application  I think she wanted the cover at the time even if she doesnt remember all 
this now. Im sorry to disappoint her, but I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited doesnt have to pay 
back anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman