DRN-3182935
Complaint
Mr J is unhappy with what The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has agreed to do to put 
things right after he complained it irresponsibly increased the overdraft limit on his current 
account.
  
Background
Since we received Mr Js complaint, RBS agreed to rework Mr Js account so that all the 
interest, fees and charges that added from December 2018, which havent already been 
refunded, are now removed. As this would leave Mr J with a credit balance RBS also wanted 
to remove the overdraft Mr J said he shouldnt have been provided with. Mr J remained 
dissatisfied and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what RBS has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr J is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. 
Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
The first thing for me to say is that prior to December 2018, Mr Js overdraft limit was only 
£700. Its not entirely clear to me what checks RBS carried out prior to these limit increases. 
But looking at Mr Js statements. I can see that he received a reasonable income. And Im 
satisfied that when Mr Js committed expenditure  his bills and other regular commitments  
is deducted from his income, he was left with enough to repay £700 within a reasonable 
period of time. So I dont think that RBS acted unfairly or unreasonably when it provided Mr J 
with an overdraft limit of £700 prior to December 2018. 
I now turn to what RBS has agreed to do from December 2018 onwards. RBS agrees that it 
shouldnt have continued providing the overdraft to Mr J from December 2018. And it has 
agreed to refund all the interest, fees and charges, which havent already been refunded, it 
added to Mr Js overdraft to put things right. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. What RBS has agreed 
to here in broadly in line with this. So RBS has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Im assuming Mr J believes that RBS should do more here. He hasnt said what more he 
thinks RBS should do. But he told our adjudicator he wanted an ombudsman to consider his 
case.
Mr Js initial complaint to RBS was that it was that it irresponsible to increase his overdraft 
limit. I dont think it was unfair for RBS to have increased the overdraft to £700 and RBS has 
presumably accepted the increases from December 2018 were unfair as it has offered to 
refund the interest, not already refunded, it added from then. And Ive not been persuaded 
that it would be appropriate to depart from our usual approach to putting things right here. 
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what RBS has already offered to do to put things 
right for Mr J  reworking his account so that all the interest, fees and charges, not already 
refunded, are removed and removing the overdraft Mr J says he shouldnt have been 
provided with  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. And Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. 
As this is the case, I leave it up to Mr J to decide whether he wishes to accept RBS offer.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what The Royal Bank of Scotland Bank Plc 
has already agreed to do to put things right for Mr J is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of his complaint. So Im not requiring RBS to do anything more and I leave it 
up to Mr J to decide whether he wishes to accept RBS offer.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman