DRN-3024570
The complaint
Mr S complains his broker Next Risk Solutions Limited (NRS) incorrectly recorded the cars 
current mileage at the start of his motor insurance policy, and that this meant his insurer later 
declined a claim he made under the policy.
What happened
On 9 March 2019 Mr Ss father bought a new car on finance, and the manufacturer provided 
him with a weeks free insurance. It seems Mr Ss father bought the car for Mr S to use. So 
Mr S took out his own annual motor insurance policy for the car through NRS. In doing so, 
Mr S spoke to NRS on the telephone. His policy started on 15 March 2019. 
Mr S has said the car was damaged in an arson attack on 7 August 2019, which was 
investigated by the police. Mr S claimed for this under his policy. But the insurer declined his 
claim. It said his policy contained an exclusion that said, We will not cover any loss or 
damage to your vehicle(s) [vehicle make and model] if the mileage covered during the period 
of insurance exceeds 5,000. It pointed out that the cars mileage at the time of the claim 
was 5,625.  The insurer said the car was a write-off and arranged for it to be scrapped. 
Mr S complained to NRS that when he took out the policy, it had incorrectly recorded the 
cars current mileage as zero. Mr S also complained to the insurer about its decision to 
decline the claim and scrap the car. Our Service has addressed Mr Ss complaints about the 
insurer separately. This complaint is about how NRS recorded the cars current mileage at 
the start of Mr Ss policy, so in this decision Ive focused on whats relevant to this.
In response to Mr Ss complaint, NRS said that in its call with Mr S, it asked Mr S what the 
current mileage of the car was, and Mr S said he didnt know and so it recorded zero. And 
its pointed out that Mr S said he expected to travel a total of 5,000 miles during the whole 
year. NRS pointed out the cars mileage on 20 August 2019 was 5,625 and that Mr S had 
explained this was because his father had used the car a lot in the week before Mr Ss policy 
started. Based on Mr Ss explanation of those journeys and the cars delivery mileage, NRS 
thought the car had done about 1,080 miles before Mr S took out his policy. NRS said that 
even if it set these 1,080 miles aside, Mr S had driven 4,545 miles within the first five months 
of his policy, so hed likely have exceeded the mileage hed agreed to when he took out the 
policy during the period of insurance. 
Unhappy, Mr S came to our Service saying NRS had been wrong to assume the cars 
current mileage was zero. And that the arson and not having his car had a very significant 
impact on him, his family and his neighbours. 
One of our Investigators considered Mr Ss complaint. She thought that in its call with Mr S, 
NRS should have done more to get the cars current mileage from Mr S. She said NRS 
should pay Mr S £250 compensation for the distress this error caused him. 
NRS accepted the Investigators view. But Mr S disagreed with the Investigator. He said 
£250 wasnt enough compensation for the distress and financial loss the arson caused. He 
sent us a photo he said hed now found of the cars dashboard, suggesting it showed the 
cars mileage was 2,146 on the day after he took out the policy. Mr S told us that because 
the car had done that mileage before he took out his policy, he thought he was still within his 
policys mileage limit of 5,000 when it suffered the arson attack. Hes added that when he 
reached the mileage limit of 5,000, he would have taken out another motor insurance policy 
elsewhere or sold the car. Mr S also mentioned NRS had advised him there was a payment 
pending in respect of his claim. 
Our Investigator responded and said that while Mr S was aware the car had done significant 
mileage in the previous week, he didnt tell NRS anything to suggest the mileage wasnt zero 
or close to zero as could be expected for a new car when he took out the policy. And that 
NRS had correctly told Mr S the insurer was holding a claim amount in reserve, though 
ultimately the insurer decided not to pay this. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for consideration. I 
asked NRS for more information about the sale of Mr Ss policy, but despite reminders, NRS 
didnt provide this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to acknowledge that the arson Mr S has told us about must have caused him 
and his family a great deal of distress and worry. Im very sorry to hear that. But I must be 
clear that Ive seen nothing to suggest NRS was responsible for that arson, so it wouldnt be 
fair for me to ask NRS to pay Mr S compensation for the distress and inconvenience the 
arson in and of itself caused Mr S. And I dont think what NRS did resulted in Mr Ss claim 
being turned down, and Ive explained why later in this decision. 
Mr S has brought a number of complaint points to our Service. The one NRS is responsible 
for is how the cars current mileage was recorded at the time Mr S took out his policy. NRS 
hasnt provided the further information from the time of the sale that I asked for. So Ive 
based my decision on the information I do have, which includes a recording of the call 
between Mr S and NRS when Mr S was taking out his policy.
In this call, NRS asked Mr S And whats the current mileage of the vehicle? Mr S replied 
Im not too sure mate. NRS simply said Ok and moved straight on to the next question. It 
seems NRS assumed the mileage was zero or as close to zero as to make no difference, 
because it recorded the cars current mileage as zero. I can understand why NRS might 
have assumed that, given Mr S said the car was new and had only been bought by his father 
about a week earlier. 
However, it wasnt for NRS to make assumptions. Instead, NRS should have asked Mr S to 
confirm the cars current mileage and explain it couldnt continue without this information, as 
it did elsewhere in the call when Mr S wasnt sure of his answers to questions about his 
driving licence and the amount paid in a previous claim. So not asking Mr S to confirm the 
current mileage was an error on NRSs part.
When a business makes an error, our approach is to consider what impact that error had on 
the consumer. In other words, whether that error caused the consumer any distress, 
inconvenience or financial loss.
In this case, I think Mr S would have been frustrated and concerned to find out during the 
claim process that NRS had incorrectly assumed the cars mileage was zero at the start of 
his policy, especially when his policy contained an exclusion that said the insurer wouldnt 
cover any loss or damage to the car if the mileage covered during the period of insurance exceeded 5,000. I think £250 is fair and reasonable compensation for that frustration and 
concern. But, as Ive already mentioned, I dont think NRSs error led to Mr Ss claim being 
turned down and so caused him a financial loss as hes suggested. 
One of the other questions NRS asked Mr S in the call was, And how many miles are you 
looking to have for the year?. Mr S replied Five thousand. NRS acknowledged this by 
saying Five thousand, yeah before moving on to the next question. Based on the answer 
Mr S gave, the insurer added the specific 5,000 mileage exclusion to Mr Ss policy. 
As part of the claim process, Mr S later told the insurer and the broker that the car did 
significant mileage in the week before Mr S took out the policy, explaining that this was 
because of the delivery mileage and his father needing to do several trips between specific 
places. I think it follows from Mr Ss explanation that the mileage done by the car in the week 
before Mr S took out his policy would have totalled approximately 1,100. Later still, Mr S 
provided our Service with a photo he said hed now found, and suggested it showed the 
cars mileage in fact stood at 2,146 on the day after his policy started.
Even if I were to accept that the cars mileage was 2,146 at the start of Mr Ss policy, I dont 
think that makes any difference here. If NRS had insisted Mr S confirm the cars current 
mileage as I think it should have, Mr S would have told it the cars current mileage was 
2,146. And the insurer has told our Service that the cars current mileage didnt affect 
whether it offered Mr S cover or not. 
But the insurer has told us that what mileage Mr S would do during the period of his policy 
would affect whether it offered Mr S cover, and on what terms. In the call with NRS, Mr S 
himself chose to say the cars mileage for the period of cover would be 5,000  this figure 
wasnt prompted by NRS. And Ive seen nothing to make me think Mr S would have given a 
different answer here if NRS had recorded the cars current mileage as 2,146. So Im 
satisfied Mr Ss policy would still have gone ahead on the same terms. And I must be clear 
that it was the insurer that decided to decline Mr Ss claim based on the policy terms, not 
NRS. And  as Ive already said - the insurers decision to decline the claim is the subject of 
a separate complaint with our Service.
While not the crux of Mr Ss complaint about NRS, I note Mr S says that during the claim 
assessment, NRS told him there was an insurance payment pending. I can see that NRS 
told Mr S the insurer was holding a claim amount. Its usual practice for an insurer to hold an 
amount in reserve in the event it pays the claim, though in this case the insurer decided not 
to pay Mr Ss claim. And Ive not seen anything else to make me think NRS led Mr S to 
believe his claim would definitely be paid.
Putting things right
I think NRS made an error in not making Mr S confirm what the mileage was on his car when 
he took out his policy. And I accept this caused him frustration and concern, so I also think 
NRS should pay him £250 for the frustration and concern it caused Mr S. But I dont think 
this error or anything else NRS did led to Mr Ss claim being turned down. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided Next Risk Solutions Limited must pay Mr S £250 
compensation for the distress its error caused him.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman