DRN-3369756
The complaint
Ms S complains about the end of contract charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS) when her car finance agreement came to an end. 
What happened
In April 2017, Ms S entered into a 36 month personal contract purchase agreement (PCP) 
for a used car. The cash price was £16,901 and it had travelled over 31,500 miles. She paid 
a deposit of £1,600 and was required to pay £249 per month. 
The agreement was due to end on 30 April 2020. However due to the impact of the Covid-19 
pandemic, MBFS collections were temporarily suspended. MBFS offered to extend the 
agreement by three months on the same terms as the agreement. On 27 April 2020, Ms S 
contacted MBFS and said she didnt want the extension. She said she was told that as long 
as the car was insured and taxed, she could continue to use the car until it was collected.
As restrictions started to ease, in July 2020 MBFS said their collections had resumed and 
provided contact details for Ms S to arrange it. Ms S contacted MBFS and requested to 
extend the agreement while she searched for another car, a quotation was provided. MBFS 
said the extension would be for three months from 30 April 2020 and she would be required 
to pay £148 per month. As this meant Ms S would only have use of the car for a couple more 
weeks, she complained. She believed the extension shouldve started from the date of her 
request, not the date the agreement ended. 
On 19 August 2020 MBFS issued their response to the complaint and said in April 2020 they 
told Ms S if she intended to return the car they wouldnt charge her for the monthly 
instalments providing she didnt continue to use it. However in July 2020, she requested an 
extension and because she had continued to use the car they had to take this into account. 
They said if she wanted to accept the extension, she should let them know, if not, the car 
would be collected. 
In September 2020, Ms S told them she was unhappy with their response. On that basis, 
MBFS told Ms S that they would refer it to their collection agents. At the start of October 
2020, they sent further confirmation that they had passed on the details to their agents for 
the car to be collected. 
Unhappy with their response, Ms S referred the complaint to our service. While the 
complaint was waiting to be looked into, the car was collected on 20 October 2020. It was 
later inspected on 26 October 2020. Shortly thereafter, MBFS sent an invoice and said Ms S 
had to pay £3,117 for end of contract charges. It was broken down as follows: 
-Extra days hire - £1,427 (172 days overdue from 30 April 2020)
-Damage - £440 (four wheels at £110 each)
-Excess mileage - £803 (excess of 13,396 miles)
Ms S complained about the above. MBFS said they had followed the terms of the agreement 
and acted fairly when applying these end of contract charges.
Having listened to the call from April 2020 and following some back and forth between MBFS 
and the investigator, MBFS agreed their advisor had given Ms S incorrect information. They 
accepted she was told she could use the car up until it was collected and there would be no 
charge. They agreed to remove the charge for extra days hire from 30 April 2020 (end of the 
agreement) to 19 August 2020 (the date of their final response). This meant they would 
remove 111 days of extra days hire and she would be charged for 61 days instead.  
 
Our investigator agreed to review both complaints under this reference. Based on Aprils call,  
she felt there had been a failing due to the incorrect information given and she believed 
MBFS above offer was fair. In regards to the excess mileage, damage charges and extra 
days hire after 19 August 2020, she concluded it was fair for MBFS to charge for this.
Ms S disagreed, she maintained her position. She also said:
-MBFS failed to consider the call in April 2020 despite her asking them to do so;
-MBFS hadnt passed her details to their agent and this caused delays for the car to 
be collected so it was unfair she was being charged for the extra days hire;
-The extra days hire charge was different to that offered under their offer to extend the 
agreement;
-She identifies as a vulnerable consumer and this situation has caused her stress and 
upset.
In February 2022, I issued a provisional decision partially upholding the complaint, I said:
Extra days hire
Ive listened to the relevant call in April 2020 and I agree with the findings of the investigator 
so I wont repeat them again here. MBFS has already agreed to remove the extra days hire 
between 30 April and 19 August 2020 and I believe this is fair in the circumstances.
So what is left for me to consider is whether its fair for MBFS to charge for the extra days 
hire from 20 August to 20 October 2020 (when the car was collected). Having done so, I 
dont believe its fair for them to do so. I agree with Ms S that there were delays to collect the 
car and this was because MBFS hadnt referred the details to their collection agents.
 
In MBFS final response in August 2020, they said if she didnt accept the extension they 
would arrange for the car to be collected. Ive seen a copy of an email dated 1 September 
2020 where Ms S said she wasnt happy, she didnt want the extension and the car could be 
collected. On this basis, Im satisfied it was clear that the car needed to be collected. On 4 
September 2020, MBFS confirmed this would happen so I can understand why Ms S was of 
the impression the collection agent would be in contact with her in due course. However 
based on MBFS system notes, this wasnt referred to their collection agents until 6 October 
2020. At that point, MBFS said their agents would contact her within the next five days to 
arrange collection. Its clear there was a four week delay and the reason for this is unclear 
but I dont find it was the fault of Ms S. She said she stopped using the car and during a call 
to MBFS on 13 July 2020, she confirmed the same so Im satisfied she did so.
From the time the case was referred to the collection agent on 6 October 2020, the car was 
collected within a few weeks (20 October 2020). This would suggest had the details been 
passed to their agents in September 2020 when MBFS said it would, the car wouldve been 
collected sooner. I know MBFS has already agreed to remove some of the extra days hire 
however in light of the above, I believe they should remove this charge entirely.  
Excess mileageThe agreement allowed Ms S to travel 8,000 miles per year meaning a total of 24,000 miles. 
In the event the maximum mileage is exceeded, it said MBFS will charge six pence per mile. 
In this case when supplied, the car had covered 31,500 miles and when it was returned it 
had covered over 68,800 miles. 
At the time of the call in April 2020, Ms S indicated she had exceeded the mileage and she 
accepted there would be a charge. Its not clear how much the mileage had exceeded at the 
time of the call. However based on the incorrect information given about the use of the car, 
she doesnt believe its fair for MBFS to charge £803 for excess mileage. Although I accept 
the advisor gave incorrect information, he did say it would be subject to excess mileage and 
this part was correct. So Im satisfied Ms S knew there would be a charge for this. 
Given Ms S had use of the car and exceeded the permitted miles by over 13,300, I find 
MBFS were entitled to apply the charge for excess mileage. Having seen the invoice, the 
applicable charge of six pence per mile has been correctly applied so I cant say MBFS have 
acted unfairly in this respect.
Damage
The agreement outlined that in the event the car is returned in a condition that doesnt meet 
their vehicle standards, MBFS would apply a charge. The agreement also outlined what 
damage would be considered acceptable. Ms S signed this agreement in April 2017 so Im 
satisfied she was aware of the same.
 
In this case, MBFS said damage was found to all four wheels, meaning Ms S must pay £440 
(£110 each). Ive reviewed MBFS return standards and Ive also taken into account 
guidance published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). This is 
industry guidance which sets out what is considered fair wear and tear when cars are 
returned at the end of their agreements. However I must bear in mind this guidance is 
primarily for cars that were new when supplied. Nevertheless, I think its fair to take this 
guidance into account as its still relevant about what is considered fair wear and tear.
Unfortunately I havent been provided with any evidence about the condition of the car when 
it was supplied to Ms S in April 2017. But given the car was around three years old and 
covered over 31,500 miles, I believe its fair to say its most likely some wear and tear 
wouldve been present. 
MBFS return standards say scuffs up to 25mm are acceptable, the BVRLA guidance says up 
to 50mm. Having reviewed the photographs of the reported damage, I can see there are 
significant scuff marks found on all four wheels which based on MBFS standards and the 
BVRLA wouldnt be considered acceptable. Therefore, Im satisfied this damage is beyond 
fair wear and tear even given the cars age and mileage so MBFS were entitled to charge for 
this.  
Summary
Taking everything into account, I dont believe MBFS has acted fairly. Ms S was given 
incorrect information about the use of the car when the agreement came to an end. I also 
believe MBFS caused an approximate four week delay for the car to be collected. In the 
circumstances, I believe the charge for extra days hire should be removed completely.
However in terms of the excess mileage and damage charges, I find this have been fairly 
charged by MBFS. 
Ive carefully considered Ms S comments and Im sorry to hear how this situation has 
impacted her. From the outset, she said the call from April 2020 was important and I find she 
was right about this. Had MBFS listened to it earlier, I believe this wouldve alleviated some of her concerns. MBFS said she needed to pay over £3,000 in end of contract charges which 
is a significant amount so I can understand her worries about it and receiving subsequent 
demand letters. Ms S said at the time she was a single parent of a newborn and was a carer 
for her mother and this situation caused additional distress. Im sorry to hear this was a 
difficult time for her. Taking everything into account, I believe MBFS should also pay £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Having reached this decision, I strongly encourage Ms S to contact MBFS to discuss a 
suitable way of paying the outstanding balance. I wish to remind MBFS of the expectation 
that they treat her with forbearance and due consideration in the event she is experiencing 
financial difficulty. 
Response to the provisional decision 
Both parties were invited to respond to the provisional decision. MBFS accepted the 
findings. Given what had happened, Ms S said she didnt believe the £150 compensation 
was enough. In summary she said from the outset she stressed the call in April 2020 was 
key and she didnt believe MBFS had looked into her concerns sufficiently so she had no 
alternative but to refer it to our service. She explained the impact this complaint has had on 
her life including her worry that she may have to declare herself bankrupt due to the 
situation. She believes the charge for excess mile should be reduced as she was told she 
could continue using the car, she had to insure and store it at her own expense.
Ms S also provided evidence of recent demand letters still asking for the original outstanding 
balance from a third party debt collection company that MBFS had instructed. She believes 
this debt should return to MBFS and she said she is willing to work with them to pay what is 
owed. Lastly Ms S said shes happy for the compensation amount to be credited to the 
account in order to reduce the balance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Ms S for her further comments and I recognise her disappointment about the amount 
of compensation. However having carefully considered the trouble and upset caused and the 
impact of this complaint, I remain of the belief £150 is reasonable in the circumstances. 
In regard to the excess mileage charge, I have already addressed this in my provisional 
decision, I believe MBFS are entitled to charge this. Even when the advisor provided 
incorrect information about the use of the car, he did say it would be subject to excess 
mileage and this part was correct. Having listened to the call, Ms S accepted this and stated 
she had already exceeded the mileage. Overall, given Ms S had use of the car and she 
exceeded the permitted miles by over 13,300, its fair she pays for this.
In the event Ms S decides to accept this final decision, MBFS will remove the extra days hire 
meaning the outstanding balance will be revised. Whether MBFS will manage the 
outstanding debt themselves or refer it to one of their agents (a debt collection company), is 
a matter for them to decide. In the event they choose the latter, this isnt unreasonable. 
However as mentioned in my provisional decision, no matter who is managing the debt, I 
expect them to do so with forbearance and due consideration given Ms S financial 
circumstances. This may involve setting up a suitable plan based on what she can afford.
Overall, I still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, 
my final decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Ms S complaint.
To put things right, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should:
-Remove the charge for extra days hire;
-Remove any adverse information from Ms S credit file from April 2020 onwards (the 
date the agreement ended);
-Pay £150 compensation to Ms S for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman