DRN-2641053
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  trading as Moneybarn didnt treat her fairly 
when she experienced financial difficulties due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
In March 2019 Mrs C was supplied with a used car under a Conditional Sale agreement 
with Moneybarn. The agreement was for £8,249; with 59 monthly repayments of £275.82.
She said that in April 2020 she had to shield because her husband had been 
symptomatic. This had resulted in an increase in her household expenditure. She said she 
also had her own significant health problems. On 10 April 2020 she sent an email to 
Moneybarn requesting a payment holiday under the FCA Payment Holiday Rules. She said 
she understood this wouldnt affect her credit rating and would mean Moneybarn wouldnt 
send her a bill for three months.
On 18 May 2020 she received an email from Moneybarn saying she was in arrears. She 
replied saying this wasnt correct as she had a three-month payment holiday  and referred 
to her email of 10 April 2020. She said that Moneybarn refused her offer of paying £150 a 
month, and also refused her a payment holiday. She said that Moneybarn wouldnt allow her 
to pay £30 a month towards her arrears, and insisted that she get an MOT done, even 
though she said there was a 6-month exemption on MOT tests. She said shed prioritised 
her health over the MOT and tax, as she was suffering from a very serious health condition. 
She said she didnt use the car for five months.
She contacted Moneybarn on 16 June 2020 and again asked for either a payment holiday or 
a reduced payment of £150 a month. She said this was because of her loss of income due to 
the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. Mrs C said she was in arrears in 2019 as her 
mother had been ill. She said Moneybarn didnt respond to her emails, refused to accept her 
payment of £150, and didnt consider her needs as a vulnerable customer, suffering from 
poor health, and close to death.
She said Moneybarns refusal to accept the £150 payments shed offered, or a token 
payment, was unreasonable and not in line with the forbearance Moneybarn were required 
to provide. She said their refusal had caused her arrears to build up.
Moneybarn said Mrs C had fallen into arrears prior to the Coronavirus pandemic. They said 
theyd agreed a number of payment plans with her before the pandemic. They said she 
contacted them on 10 April 2020 requesting a payment holiday, as she said she was 
suffering financial difficulties due to the pandemic. They said she referred to the FCA 
guidance but they didnt think a payment holiday was appropriate. They said this was 
because the difficulties werent related only to the pandemic, as she was already in arrears.
They also said that Mrs C had failed to have the car MOTd as required under the terms of 
the agreement.  They said the MOT had expired in January 2020.
They also said there was no evidence that Mrs Cs income had been impacted by the 
coronavirus situation. They offered her further time to get an MOT  and the car wasnt 
MOTd until June 2020.
They said theyd given Mrs C opportunities to address her arrears, and that theyd provided 
her with appropriate forbearance, before and after the pandemic.
Our investigator didnt think Moneybarn had treated Mrs C unfairly. She noted that Mrs C 
was in significant arrears before the pandemic. She thought it was reasonable for 
Moneybarn not to grant her a payment holiday as the FCA guidance was aimed at 
consumers with new financial difficulties arising from Covid-19.
She also thought that Moneybarn had treated Mrs C with appropriate forbearance during 
the time of the agreement.
Mrs C disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She wants the interest 
charges to be waived as she feels she was prevented from making payments. She said she 
was also upset by Moneybarns unacceptable and inhumane treatment of her and how 
theyd ignored her serious health condition.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mrs C was supplied with a car under a conditional sale 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it. Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, 
its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
The payment holiday
On 24 April 2020, the FCA issued guidance to firms about the financial impact of COVID-19 
on customers and their ability to make payments on regulated motor finance agreements. 
This said that firms could grant a payment holiday (referred to as a payment deferral) for up 
to 3-months. On 17 July 2020 they issued further guidance saying, if a customer was unable 
to resume full payments after an initial payment deferral, a further payment deferral period of 
up to 3-months should be offered.
The purpose of the guidance was to provide support for customers experiencing temporary 
financial difficulties as a result of COVID-19 related issues. It was for customers facing a loss 
or reduction in income as a result of coronavirus. 
The guidance made clear that payment holidays or deferrals would not be suitable in all 
circumstances. It was also clear that this was only a temporary solution.
 
I can see from the statement of account, and from her own testimony, that Mrs C was 
already in arrears and struggling to meet the monthly payment as set out in the agreement. 
I appreciate that Mrs C said her outgoings, especially her food bill, increased due to the 
need to isolate during the pandemic. But it was clear that the FCA intended for payment 
holidays to be suitable for customers who werent already in arrears, and whose income was affected by Covid 19. So I think it was reasonable for Moneybarn not to offer Mrs C a 
payment holiday. 
Financial difficulty
The guidance also advised firms what to do where the customer was already in financial 
difficulty. It said, Where a customer was in pre-existing financial difficulty, our existing 
forbearance rules and guidance in CONC would continue to apply. These rules can be 
found in the FCA Handbook (available online).  CONC is the section that provides rules 
and guidance for firms like Moneybarn who offer consumer credit products.
The part of the rules relevant to this matter can be found in CONC 7, Arrears, default and 
recovery (including repossession). This says that firms should consider consumers in 
default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. This could be in 
the form of waiving interest, deferring arrears payments, etc.
Mrs C fell behind with her payments not long after she entered into the agreement. She 
said this was because she incurred unexpected extra costs of travelling to see a relative 
who needed her care after an operation. Mrs C said she made Moneybarn aware of this 
and they agreed to set up a payment plan. They agreed to accept payments of £150 each 
month for the next few months due to her circumstances. Im satisfied that this shows that 
Moneybarn treated her fairly as required by the FCA, and in line with the rules set out in 
CONC 7.
Mrs Cs account remained in arrears. I can see that Moneybarn issued her with Notice of 
Arrears letters in September 2019 and November 2019. They followed this up with a letter 
on 8 January 2020. This explained to Mrs C that the account was more than £1,000 in 
arrears, and that shed need to maintain the payments or return the car. The letter also set 
out the options for Mrs C should she want to end the agreement, and the cost of each 
option.
They then issued a default notice to Mrs C in 17 February 2020. This set out what Mrs C 
needed to do to avoid breaching the agreement.
All of these notices were sent in line with the requirements set out in the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974, with the purpose of keeping Mrs C informed of the status of her account, and 
what would happen if she breached the agreement. Again, I think it was fair for 
Moneybarn to do this. Mrs C said she never received the default notice. Im satisfied it was 
sent: the address on the notice is the same as Mrs Cs home address. So Im persuaded 
that its more likely than not that it was sent to her home.
Mrs C contacted Moneybarn shortly after the notice was issued and asked them to agree 
to a payment plan of £30 per month. At this point they noticed that Mrs C hadnt taxed the 
car, and the MOT had expired in January 2020. So they refused to consider Mrs Cs offer 
until the car was taxed and had a MOT. I think this was a reasonable approach to take: 
keeping the car taxed, MOTd and insured was a condition of the agreement (as well as a 
legal requirement), and it was reasonable for Moneybarn to ask Mrs C to put this right.Moneybarn said theyd discuss a payment plan with Mrs C after she confirmed the car had 
a valid MOT and was taxed. In March 2020 Mrs C told Moneybarn shed booked the car in 
for an MOT and that she would get the road tax on 12 March 2020.
 
Mrs C was still struggling to make the monthly payments, and in March 2020 they agreed 
to allow her more time to pay. This demonstrates to me that they were treating her 
sympathetically as required in the rules.
She did make the payment on 16 March 2020, just a few days late. But she wasnt able to 
confirm that the car had been taxed or MOTd.
 
Mrs C said she should have been allowed the six-month extension to MOTs that the 
Government had announced. But this didnt apply to Mrs C, because the MOT had expired 
in January 2020. The extension applied only where the MOT expired between 30 March 
2020 and 31 July 2020.
In May 2020 Mrs C said that she offered to pay Moneybarn £150 a month. She said their 
refusal to accept this led to an increase in her arrears owed. Ive considered this and I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Moneybarn to decline the offer at this time. Theyd 
made clear to Mrs C what she needed to do before theyd consider any payment plan  
that was to have the car MOTd and taxed. She hadnt done this, and was in breach of the 
agreement.
Moneybarn could have terminated the agreement at this point  but because of the 
circumstances, they allowed her more time to get an MOT. In response to our investigator, 
Mrs C said she put her own health above the need to get the car MOTd. She described 
her serious health condition, and provided medical evidence of this. I accept that she was 
seriously ill, but I have to consider whether or not Moneybarn treated her fairly. And I think 
they did  they made it clear to her what she needed to do before theyd discuss a 
payment plan.
Having use of the car without valid tax and MOT was in breach of the agreement and 
Moneybarn could reasonably have terminated the agreement at the time. But they didnt: 
they gave her several opportunities, and several months, to put it right.
Ive explained above that the FCAs rules required Moneybarn to treat Mrs C with 
forbearance. This doesnt mean automatically allowing payment holidays, or missed 
payments,  without considering the wider picture  that includes looking at the amount of 
arrears and making sure this doesnt become unmanageable. There was already a 
considerable amount of arrears on Mrs Cs account, so it was reasonable for Moneybarn 
to refuse the offer until it was sure that Mrs C could get the car roadworthy and make the 
payments without going into further debt.
In May 2020 Mrs C told Moneybarn she couldnt meet the monthly payments. Moneybarn 
again explained the exit options available to her. And they offered her breathing space to 
consider what she wanted to do. This is further evidence that Moneybarn have treated Mrs 
C fairly, and were taking her circumstances into account when discussing her agreement.
Im satisfied that Moneybarn treated Mrs C fairly and reasonably: since she first went into 
arrears, when they discovered the car wasnt MOTd, and when she asked for a payment 
holiday because of the Covid 19 situation. So I wont be asking them to do any more.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint about Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  
trading as Moneybarn.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman