DRN-3665962
The complaint
Mr S complains that RAC Financial Services Ltd charged him a fee when he cancelled his 
roadside assistance policy. He wants this refunded.
 
What happened
Mr S had a policy taken out through RAC for five years. He said that it hadnt sent him 
renewal information for the last three years. And so he cancelled his policy. RAC then 
charged him £25 for its arrangement and administration. Mr S was unhappy with this as he 
said he hadnt had his renewal documents. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr Ss 
renewal documents had been correctly sent to him. He saw that Mr S had contacted RAC to 
negotiate his terms at the first two renewals. And he thought RAC was entitled by the 
policys terms and conditions to charge him £25 if he cancelled his policy.  
Mr S replied that the reason hed contacted RAC was because he hadnt received his 
documents, nor had another family member. Mr S asked for an Ombudsmans review, so his 
complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that when Mr S first took out his policy, it was non-advised, and he agreed to 
automatic renewals and for email communications. The policy then automatically renewed 
twice and Mr S contacted RAC to negotiate his terms before the renewals started. Mr S said 
this was because he hadnt received his documents. I dont doubt him. But I cant see from 
RACs file the reason why he called, just the outcome. 
The policy then automatically renewed a further two times, and Mr S didnt make contact 
with RAC until after his policy renewed in 2021. He then cancelled his policy. 
Mr S said he hadnt received his renewal documents. But I can see from RACs records that 
they were produced and dispatched to the same email address he has provided to us. So 
Im satisfied they were sent. I cant say why Mr S didnt receive his documents, but I dont 
have evidence to say RAC did anything wrong.  
From what I can see, Mr S had access to his account online, so he could have checked his 
renewals on there if he had so wished. And I think he could have cancelled his policy before 
renewal if he so wished as I think he was aware of the renewal date. 
Mr S cancelled his policy five days after it renewed. He was given a full refund less RACs 
£25 administration and arrangement fee. The policy booklet states:
Cancellation of your policy  Within cooling off period
If you have not used service
We will refund your premium in full.
If you have paid an Arrangement and Administration fee, we will retain (or charge, if it has 
not yet been paid) £25 of this and refund the remainder.
Mr S agreed to these terms and conditions when he first took out his policy online. So I think 
RAC acted correctly when it applied the administration and arrangement fee at cancellation 
and deducted this from Mr Ss refund. So I cant say that it did anything wrong or that it 
needs to pay Mr S a refund.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman