DRN-3921603
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain they couldnt speak to Santander UK Plc to secure a new mortgage 
deal. Overnight, the rates went up, in advance of anticipated changes to Bank of England 
rates. Mr and Mrs R want Santander to give them the rate they couldve got the day before.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R told us that they had been checking out mortgage deals with Santander, as 
their existing fixed rate was coming to an end soon. Santander kept telling them it was too 
early to apply for a deal. Then in September 2022, it wrote to say that they could now take 
out a new deal, either by going online or phoning. 
Mr and Mrs R said they checked out the available deals online on the evening of 20 
September 2022. They wanted to accept one of them but had a few questions. They said 
that they also had concerns about accepting a deal online, because they were suspicious of 
email correspondence purporting to be from Santander. They said Santanders call lines 
were closed. By the next day, Santanders rates had gone up. 
Mr and Mrs R said Santander initially told them rates had risen because of increases in the 
Bank of England base rate, but that didnt actually change until a day later. Santander 
eventually just said it could change rates at any time. And they said Santander hadnt told 
them they could book a rate online then have 14 days to decide whether to take it out or not. 
Mr and Mrs R said none of this was fair. Theyd ended up paying much more each month. 
They wanted Santander to offer them the rates theyd seen on the evening of 20 September.
Santander said it hadnt made a mistake, and it wasnt unfair for it to change its rates. It said 
a change in rates can be caused by a number of factors, not just changes in the Bank of 
England base rate. Here, Santander hadnt made any offer to Mr and Mrs R, so it wouldnt 
honour the rates they had previously seen. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that it wasnt 
Santanders fault that Mr and Mrs R hadnt been able to speak to it, on the evening of 20 
September. It wasnt unreasonable for Santander to put up its rates that night, and as it 
hadnt offered Mr and Mrs R a mortgage deal before the rates increased, it didnt have to 
offer them the old rates now. Our investigator also said Mr and Mrs R couldve taken out a 
new deal online, and they would have had 14 days to review it before accepting.
Mr R replied, to say he disagreed. He wanted to know where he was told about a 14 day 
period to accept a new offer, and what deadline hed been told about for the rates he saw. 
Our investigator pointed to the section in the letter from Santander which Mr R had sent us 
at the start of his complaint. That told him he would have up to 14 days to review and accept 
an online offer. Our investigator also said that Mr R didnt get any deadline for acceptance 
from Santander, because it never made him an offer. 
Mr R continued to disagree. He didnt think Santander had taken care of him as a customer. 
And he thought he should have been given advance notice that Santander was thinking 
about increasing its rates. Mr R wanted an ombudsman to consider this complaint, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Id like to start by saying that lenders are able to change the interest rates available to 
people seeking mortgages. They dont have to give prior notice of that. And lenders dont 
just respond to changes in the Bank of England base rate, once they have happened. They 
respond to all sorts of changes in the markets, which can mean its more (or less) expensive 
for them to borrow the money that they would then lend on to people like Mr and Mrs R. This 
can happen very quickly, and sometimes, it may happen in advance of changes that are 
widely anticipated, as here. 
Mr and Mrs R also said they didnt think Santanders communications with them were clear. 
They said if it had explained that they could book a rate online, they would have reserved 
something when they were looking at deals. I do think the letter Santander sent to them does 
explain that theres usually a short cooling off period with deals that are taken out online, so I 
think Santander did say this to Mr and Mrs R. 
Mr and Mrs R have told us that they dont think what happened is fair. And they said they felt 
they were being blamed by Santander, because it said it hadnt made a mistake. I dont think 
thats what Santander meant, I think it just meant that what had happened here was just an 
unfortunate set of circumstances, rather than a mistake by the bank. And I think that too. Im 
sorry that this has worked out poorly for Mr and Mrs R, but that doesnt mean Santander has 
done anything wrong. And because I havent been able to see that Santander has done 
anything wrong, I dont think it has to offer Mr and Mrs R the rates they had previously seen, 
but not applied for, before the increase took effect. 
I know Mr and Mrs R will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman