DRN-3039267
The complaint
Mrs M complains she wasnt given the correct policy by The Royal London Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited. 
What happened
In 2010 Mrs M took out a level term assurance policy with Royal London. 
In February 2020 Mrs M contacted Royal London to amend her direct debit for this policy. 
During this conversation Mrs M said she became aware the policy was a level term 
assurance. So, Mrs M made a complaint. She said she wanted a life insurance policy without 
a term. Royal London reviewed the complaint but decided not to uphold it. So, Mrs M 
brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that she didnt think 
the policy was unsuitable for Mrs M at the time of the sale, and that it was made clear to her 
that the term assurance she was given only provided cover for a certain amount of time. 
Mrs M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said the term plan was never 
discussed with her, so the policy was mis-sold. She said she wanted a life insurance policy 
that covered her in the event of her death for the rest of her life. She added that the fact-find 
completed by the advisor was inaccurate and the policy wasnt explained to her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mrs M feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
As our investigator has already explained, a recommendation a business makes to a 
customer about a policy must be suitable for their needs and circumstances at that time. Its 
often the case that with the benefit of hindsight, a product sold some time ago might not 
appear to have been the right policy. But when looking at cases like this, I must decide from 
the evidence available at the point of sale, together with anything else provided by either 
party, about the suitability of the product sold. 
Mrs M says she wanted life cover so her daughter would receive the sum assured in the 
event of her death. Shes added that the policy term was never discussed, and the fact-find 
proves the advisor obtained inaccurate information. And, as a result, the investigator is 
wrong to say that the policy was still suitable for her in the circumstances. 
I can see that there are recorded inaccuracies in the fact-find by the advisor at the time of 
the sale. But that doesnt automatically mean the policy term wasnt explained to Mrs M and 
she wasnt made reasonably aware the policy had a term. The fact-find only forms a part of 
the evidence Ive considered here. Ive also reviewed the documents that were sent to Mrs M 
at the time of the sale, such as the proposal form that Mrs M signed, which Im satisfied 
clearly displays the policy would end after 21 years. 
Mrs M said she didnt have a mortgage or any other protection policies at the time of the sale 
and her income was lower than what was documented on the fact-find. So, even if I take into 
consideration the inaccuracies, Im not persuaded that a level term assurance policy was 
unsuitable here. Mrs M has said she didnt have any other protection policies at the time to 
provide a sum for her young daughter. A whole of life policy (which the fact-find says was 
discussed) wouldve been more expensive and most likely unsustainable over the long term 
for her income (which Mrs M says was too high on the fact-find) based upon a £50,000 sum 
assured. There is also a note to say the reason the policy was due to end around Mrs Ms 
retirement age was because the premium would be needed to support her every day living 
expenses in retirement, and her daughter, who would be an adult by this time, wouldnt have 
as much of a need for the policy. 
So, I accept there were inaccuracies in some of the information on the fact-find, but Im not 
satisfied that the rest of the information about what was discussed is therefore irrelevant or 
not persuasive. 
As a result, I dont believe Royal London mis-sold Mrs M the level term policy and so Im not 
going to ask it to take any further action here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman