DRN-2893442
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy about the advice he says he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC). 
What happened
What Mr M says
Mr M says that he is a property developer who regularly purchases property in Euros. In May 
2018 an employee of HSBC Ill call Mr Q recommended a currency exchange company Ill 
call E to Mr M, as he said it offered better rates than HSBC did. Initially transactions with E 
went well. Then in June 2018 Mr M transferred £173,900 from his HSBC account to E and 
he says the CEO of E stole €140,000. Mr M explains that through his solicitor he has 
recovered €143,600 and there is a High Court case against E and its CEO. 
Mr M is unhappy because he says that when he went in to branch in June 2018 to withdraw 
and exchange funds Mr Q recommended he used E to exchange funds as it provided a 
better rate than HSBC. It was because of Mr Qs recommendation that Mr M used the 
services of E. 
Mr M would like HSBC to refund his remaining loss and accept that he was given advice to 
use E. He says that in addition to the loss his health has suffered because of his experience. 
Mr M also says that he was advised by his HSBC relationship manager he wouldnt lose out 
as a result of the transaction to E.
What HSBC say
HSBC says Mr M went in to branch on 14 May 2018 and asked Mr Q to withdraw and 
exchange funds from his account so that he could pay a deposit for a property. Mr Q 
provided exchange rate details and Mr M expressed dissatisfaction at the rate and advised 
hed be sending significant sums of money to purchase properties. Mr M asked Mr Q if he 
was aware of any other companies that provided a better exchange rate. 
HSBC say Mr Q advised he was unable to recommend any company outside of the HSBC 
group but when Mr M pressed him Mr Q provided a verbal list of three local companies, 
including E. He gave the locations of the companies and Mr M said E was more convenient. 
HSBC say Mr M asked if Mr Q had used E before and Mr Q explained hed used all of them. 
But HSBC say he pointed out that their circumstances were different as Mr M planned to 
make significant exchanges. Mr M asked Mr Q to write down the name of E and his email 
address in case of any queries, which he did. In June 2018 Mr M returned to branch and 
asked Mr Q to make a payment of £173,900 to E.
Some time after the transaction Mr M went in to branch to say E owed him a significant sum 
as it had refused to provide Euros or return his funds. He had used E to make smaller 
payments without any issue before the larger payment. 
Overall, HSBC says it is sympathetic to Mr M but HSBC isnt at fault. Mr Q had no authority 
to give investment advice or recommendations on behalf of HSBC and didnt. He also 
recommended Mr M to complete his own research.
In relation to Mr Ms comment that he was told by his HSBC account manager that he 
wouldnt lose out as a result of the transaction to E, HSBC confirmed this assurance related 
only to the fees charged when the transaction was made.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt uphold it. She noted Mr Ms 
recollection of events but also said that HSBCs account differed. As she wasnt present in 
branch when Mr M says the advice was given it was hard to determine what happened and 
she couldnt fairly conclude Mr M was given advice to use E. Generally, bank staff are not 
allowed to give advice or make recommendations. The investigator said that in the 
circumstances this part of Mr Es complaint was best dealt with in court.
The investigator went on to consider whether Mr Ms payment request was unusual or out of 
character and decided that it wasnt. This was because E wasnt a new payee, Mr M had 
made higher payments in the months before and was left with a healthy balance after the 
transaction. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. In summary, he said:
- The account given by HSBC is incorrect as a former member of HSBC 
recommended E to him and the investigator has ignored evidence that shows this. In 
particular, the investigator failed to address the handwritten note showing the name 
of E, its location and Mr Qs email address. Mr M said it would be very easy to ask a 
handwriting expert to verify that Mr Q wrote these details down. 
- Mr Q left HSBC shortly after the complaint as a result of an internal investigation.
- Three respected members of the community heard HSBCs account manager tell Mr 
M that he wouldnt be out of pocket in this matter. All three witnesses are willing to 
sign an affidavit under oath to this effect. 
- The figures in the investigators opinion dont reflect the evidence provided. 
- Hes been told that its forbidden for bank employees to recommend the services of 
other financial bodies outside of the bank they work for. 
I issued my provisional decision on 8 November 2021 and said,
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the
time.
And where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I have reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
on what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
It seems to me that the key questions I need to consider in deciding what is in my opinion 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, are:
-Did Mr Q, on behalf of HSBC, give advice to Mr M to use E.
-If I determine HSBC gave advice, I must then go on to consider whether and to what 
extent Mr M suffered loss or damage as a direct result of that advice. And if I decide 
he has, I need to consider what would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage.
Mr M believes that HSBC provided advice to use the services of E and that a handwritten 
note which provides the name of E, the town where E is based, and Mr Qs HSBC email 
address proves this. Its not possible to say with certainty what Mr M and Mr Q discussed as I wasnt present. But 
both parties agree that Mr Q wrote the information on the piece of paper provided to this 
service by Mr M. What is in dispute is on what basis he did so. 
I dont believe that a piece on paper showing the name of E and its location demonstrates on 
the balance of probabilities that Mr Q advised Mr M to use E to exchange his funds. The fact 
that Mr Q wrote the details down doesnt mean he recommended E and that any loss Mr M 
suffered as a result should be met by HSBC. 
I consider the piece of paper Mr M has provided shows that some sort of discussion took 
place between Mr M and Mr Q of HSBC about other companies, but this isnt the same as a 
recommendation to use that company. And even if Mr Q said hed personally used E, Im not 
persuaded this amounts to advice that Mr M should also do so. 
An employee of a bank shouldnt recommend any other company that offers the same 
service and Mr Q would have been well aware of this. Im persuaded that in writing down the 
name of E Mr Q was simply providing a requested piece of information. 
Given my conclusion that Im not persuaded Mr Q provided advice to use E it isnt necessary 
for me to consider HSBCs responsibility for his loss. But I think it is worth noting that even if 
I had concluded that Mr Q gave advice to Mr M to use E, Im not persuaded HSBC would be 
responsible for all Mr Ms loss. I say this because I believe Mr M made a choice to use E and 
because the loss Mr M experienced wasnt foreseeable when he went in to branch and 
spoke to Mr Q. 
Mr M was given the names of a number of currency exchange companies and found the 
location of E to be preferable. So he made a choice about which company to use and had 
the opportunity to complete his own research in to E. I also havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that at the time Mr M spoke to Mr Q there was any reason to believe E would 
wrongly retain funds paid to it. In fact, Mr M made some smaller payments to E without any 
issues before E failed to provide the service Mr M expected or to return his funds.  
Mr M has also said he was told by an HSBC account manager he wouldnt lose out as a 
result of the transaction to E. Ive not seen any evidence of this. Mr M has said he has 
witnesses who will swear on oath, but this service is an informal dispute resolution service 
not a court of law. And even if an HSBC account manager said this in error, I dont consider 
it would mean HSBC now has to refund Mr Ms outstanding loss.  
I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling and am sorry to hear about what has happened in 
this case, but I cant reasonably conclude HSBC is responsible for his loss. E is the company 
at fault here. 
HSBC confirmed it had nothing further to add. Mr M didnt agree with my findings. In 
summary, he said:
- I have overlooked the fact he has three affidavits that say HSBCs relationship 
manager told him he wouldnt be out of pocket in this matter. 
- He provided what he describes as damning evidence that Mr Q recommended E to 
him when he was not allowed to do so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken in to account the same considerations as I did when I issued my 
provisional decision. Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I set out in my 
provisional decision (and reproduced above) and for the same reasons. Mr M has referred to affidavits that he hasnt provided to this service. But in any event, I 
covered this point in my provisional decision when I said that even if HSBCs relationship 
manager did say Mr M wouldnt lose out, I dont consider it would mean HSBC is bound to 
refund Mr Ms losses. Im not persuaded to reach a different conclusion. 
I also covered the evidence Mr M says demonstrates that Mr Q recommended the services 
of E. I said that both parties accept Mr Q wrote the name of E and its location on a piece of 
paper, but I consider this fact doesnt mean Mr Q recommended E or provided advice to Mr 
M to use the services of E. I still believe that the piece of paper shows that Mr M and Mr Q 
had a discussion about other companies and on the balance of probabilities Mr Q provided 
information Mr M requested but did not provide advice or a recommendation. In my 
provisional decision I also said why, even if Mr Q did provide advice about E (and Im not 
persuaded he did) I didnt consider HSBC would be responsible for all Mr Ms losses.
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear about what happened, for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and incorporated in to this final decision, I dont consider HSBC is 
responsible for Mr Ms loss.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman