DRN-4407594
The complaint
Mr and Ms M complain AWP P&C SA unfairly declined their travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Ms M hold a packaged bank account which includes a travel insurance benefit. The 
travel insurance policy is underwritten by AWP. 
In March 2023, Mr and Ms M travelled abroad on holiday. On their return journey, they were 
delayed on their way to the airport and missed their flight. Mr and Ms M travelled by taxi and 
said despite leaving much earlier than originally planned, the journey took many hours due 
to traffic and road closures related to strikes and protests. 
Mr and Ms M said they missed their flights, so had to book new flights for the next day and 
had to pay for another night of accommodation. And they made a claim against their policy. 
The policy terms state the following:
If you or a travelling companions trip is delayed for one of the covered reasons 
listed below
If the delay causes you to miss the departure of your flight or train due to a local 
public transportation delay on your way to the departure airport or train station, 
necessary transportation expenses to either help you reach your destination or return 
home. The delay must be for at least the Minimum required delay shown in the 
Benefits summary and due to one of the following covered reasons:
2. A strike, unless threatened or announced prior to date of booking your trip.
Local public transportation is defined as follows: 
Local, commuter or other urban transit system carriers (such as commuter rail, city 
bus, subway, ferry, taxi, for-hire driver or other such carriers) that transport you or a 
travelling companion less than 150 kilometres.
Strike and civil disorder are not defined within the policy terms.
AWP declined the claim. It said the circumstance of the claim was not an insured peril. Mr 
and Ms M responded to AWP asking for more information and said they couldnt understand 
why the claim had been declined. 
AWP said the information Mr and Ms M provided showed they were unable to arrive at the 
airport on time because the public roads were busy due to industrial action, and they missed 
their flight because of this. AWP concluded that whilst this was unfortunate, it was not a 
circumstance that is covered by the policy, so it said it was unable to consider Mr and Ms M 
claim further. 
Mr and Ms M complained. They said their policy stated strike action was a covered reason 
for travel delays. And they said they didnt understand AWPs explanation. AWP responded 
to the complaint saying it had reviewed the claim again, and the circumstances were not 
covered. 
Unhappy with the response from AWP, Mr and Ms M brought their complaint to this service. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened and said they thought Mr and Ms Ms 
claim was covered by the policy. They said AWP should pay the claim with interest. 
Mr and Ms M accepted the investigators view. However, AWP disagreed and asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. In summary it said although the policy doesnt define strike 
the cause of the delay was not a protest. It said the consumers stated the cause to be 
exceptionally high road traffic, and that their hotel told them to expect this before they 
travelled.
As AWP disagreed, the case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
I contacted AWP and asked if for further explanation on why it thought the circumstances of 
Mr and Ms Ms claim werent covered. However, it didnt provide any response. So Ive gone 
on to consider the complaint with the information I have. Having done so, I think AWP 
declined the claim unfairly. And Ill explain why. 
The policy terms set out the cover for a delay causing a missed departure of a flight, 
providing the delay is due to one of a list of reasons. The list of reasons stated in the policy 
includes A strike, unless threatened or announced prior to date of booking your trip.
Strike is not a defined term within the policy, so in the absence of a definition, its every day 
meaning should be used. And a standard dictionary definition is  a refusal to work 
organised by a body of employees as a form of protest. 
Mr and Ms M have explained that they were delayed reaching the airport in heavy traffic, as 
roads were closed due to strike action and protests. Theyve shown their taxi picked them up 
at 8am for their flight which was at approximately 3pm. Im satisfied based on online route 
data, that the journey by car would usually have taken around 2.5 hours. So Im persuaded 
their journey took much longer than it usually should have. 
In its response to the investigators view, AWP said the cause of the delay was high road 
traffic and not a protest. However, the strikes and associated protests in the country Mr and 
Ms M visited were publicised in the media at the time. So Im persuaded by what theyve 
said about the roads being closed due to the strikes and associated protests, causing the 
higher traffic. 
AWP said Mr and Ms Ms hotel told them to expect the delays before they travelled.  
However, I dont think this makes a difference. The policy terms specify a strike as a covered 
reason for a travel delay unless it was threatened or announced prior to the booking of the 
trip. Mr and Ms M booked their trip around two months prior to travelling, and were told about 
the road closures by their hotel the day before they were due to travel home. So this was not prior to them booking their trip. And theyve shown that they requested an earlier taxi pick up 
time, in an attempt to mitigate the potential delays advised by the hotel. 
Im satisfied the circumstances of Mr and Ms Ms missed departure fall within the insured 
perils of the policy, based on the local transportation delay occurring due to a strike. And 
taxi is included within the definition of local public transportation given. 
Putting things right
Ive found AWP acted unfairly in declining the claim, so it should now pay it subject to the 
remaining policy terms, together with interest on the settlement amount. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I direct AWP 
P&C SA to pay the claim subject to the remaining terms or the policy. And to add interest to 
the claim payment at 8%, from the date the claim was first declined, to the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman