DRN-1946392
The complaint
Mrs L complains that TFS Loans Limited (TFS) acted irresponsibly by adding her as a 
guarantor to a loan.
What happened
Mrs L agreed to act as a guarantor for a loan TFS provided to her son in July 2017. Mrs Ls 
son borrowed £4,000 and agreed to repay it in 60 monthly instalments.
When she made her complaint Mrs L noted that she hadnt, at that time, been required by 
TFS to make any payments under her guarantee. But she said that on a large number of 
occasions she had effectively done so by giving the required repayment amounts to her son. 
She said that TFS should have seen, when the loan was first agreed, that she would have 
been unable to afford to make the repayments on the loan if she had been required to do so.
Mrs Ls complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that 
proportionate checks would have shown that Mrs L wouldnt be in a position to sustainably 
make the repayments on the loan if she were required to under her guarantee. So she didnt 
think TFS should have accepted Mrs L as a guarantor on the loan.
TFS didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If 
Mrs L accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mrs Ls complaint. At this stage I want to be clear 
that I am not considering, as part of this complaint, whether or not the loan should have been 
given to Mrs Ls son. That is a matter between him and TFS. I am only considering whether 
it was reasonable for TFS to accept Mrs L as a guarantor for that loan.
Mrs L was not the borrower  she was the guarantor. The rules and regulations at the time 
did not require TFS to carry out an identical set of checks on Mrs L as it did on the borrower. 
But TFS did need to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mrs L 
could afford to repay what was owed in a sustainable manner if she was required to under 
her guarantee. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs L. In practice 
this meant that TFS had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mrs L undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mrs L. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will, or could, be indebted for (reflecting 
the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of a 
guarantors vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all 
of this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to 
add Mrs L as a guarantor.
TFS gathered some information from Mrs L before it agreed for her to become a guarantor. It 
asked her for evidence of her normal monthly income. And it looked at her credit file to 
understand what liabilities she had to other lenders. TFS has given us details of some 
conversations it had with Mrs L before it agreed to add her a guarantor. In particular TFS 
was concerned about a large payday loan that Mrs L had outstanding, and it sought 
evidence from her that loan had been repaid before it proceeded with the application.
Mrs L was entering into a significant commitment with TFS. She could be expected to make 
monthly repayments for a period of up to five years. So I would expect TFS to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about Mrs Ls financial circumstances 
before it agreed to add her as a guarantor. I dont think that the information it gathered from 
Mrs L was enough.
As I said earlier, TFS had a good understanding, in the form of a payslip and from its credit 
checks, of Mrs Ls income and her credit expenditure. From the information TFS had 
gathered Mrs L would have around £178 left over each month if she had been required to 
make the repayments on the loan. But that left over income would need to pay for many 
other things. TFSs assessment had only taken account of Mrs Ls credit repayments 
(including her mortgage)  it hadnt considered all the other day to day living costs such as 
utility bills, transport costs, food, and general expenses that almost every homeowner will 
incur. From my experience those costs would normally be significantly more than the £178 
that Mrs L had left over.I have considered that TFS says that Mrs L might have had other income that it hadnt 
considered. It says that she might have earned some overtime payments. And that her son 
paid her rent each month. But without any evidence of those payments I think it would have 
been irresponsible to place much weight on them.
In fact, having looked at Mrs Ls bank statements from the time, she didnt receive any rent 
from her son. If anything she was making regular contributions to support his living costs and 
debt repayments. And the only way that Mrs L was making ends meet each month was by 
regularly borrowing from a range of short term lenders. I dont think that, if it had properly 
assessed Mrs Ls financial situation, TFS could reasonably have concluded that she would 
be able to make the repayments on the loan if she were required to under the guarantee.
In a case such as this I would also normally consider whether Mrs L had been given enough 
information about her responsibilities as a guarantor. And so whether she had given properly 
informed consent to that agreement. But since I have already concluded that her financial 
situation made it inappropriate for her to become a guarantor, I dont need to consider that 
matter any further.
So I dont think it was reasonable for TFS to accept Mrs L as a guarantor for this loan. TFS 
needs to put things right.
Putting things right
To put things right my intention is for Mrs L to be placed back into the position she would 
have been if she hadnt been added as a guarantor to the loan. But in saying that I am not 
making any findings about whether or not the loan should have been given. So, I am not 
making any direction relating to Mrs Ls sons responsibility to repay the remaining loan 
balance.
To put things right, TFS should;
Release Mrs L from any obligations she has under the Guarantee and Indemnity 
agreement. Terminate that agreement, and confirm this has been done to Mrs L in 
writing.
Refund any payments, if any, that Mrs L has made directly to TFS in relation to the 
guarantee she provided on this loan. TFS should add simple interest at a rate of 8% 
per annum to each of these amounts from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement*.
Remove any entries about this loan from Mrs Ls credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ls complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman