DRN-2564433
The complaint
Ill refer to the business as L throughout this complaint.
L is unhappy that AXIS Specialty Europe SE hasnt dealt with their fire claim under a 
commercial business policy.
Ls complaint has been brought by their representative but for the purposes of this decision 
Ill refer only to L throughout.
What happened
L made a claim following a fire at the business premises. AXIS sent in specialists to review 
the damage and validate the claim. During these checks AXIS was advised that the fire 
service was investigating L regarding potential breaches of regulations. AXIS decided that it 
was important for these investigations to be concluded and for it to review the findings of the 
investigation before it could make a decision on whether or not to deal with Ls claim.
L didnt accept this. It said the fire investigation could take a very long time and L wanted to 
get the business up and running again as soon as possible. It said there was no reason for 
AXIS to delay settling the fire claim. As AXIS didnt agree, L brought a complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said AXIS was entitled to await the findings 
of the fire report. He accepted that the outcome of this report might affect AXISs decision 
whether or not to pay the claim. Our investigator felt AXIS were keen to progress the claim 
from the correspondence between it and the fire service. He said AXIS had acted reasonably 
in deciding to wait for the report before concluding the claim.
L didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key to how long this claim might take to resolve lies with the fire service report. I dont 
know if L or its representatives have ensured that quick responses have been provided to 
requests for information from the fire service. But I think thats perhaps the most important 
consideration in getting this claim resolved one way or the other. I think AXIS has done what 
it can to try and help ensure the fire service process is completed as quickly as possible.
From the information Ive seen I think AXIS has acted reasonably when it decided to await 
the fire report before concluding the claim. Its clear that AXIS had some concerns after 
expert reports had been provided to it following the fire claim. Its clear that the fire brigade 
had concerns about L and actions being taken at the premises too.
AXIS has been clear with this service that it was never notified of a previous fire incident that 
had occurred at Ls premises. It said if it had been made aware it wouldve needed to 
consider whether or not to offer insurance cover to L or to offer different terms. I accept this 
point. In view of this I think AXIS has good reason to want to check the outcome of the fire 
service report.
L has said theres no reason for waiting and that its claim should be paid. But I think its clear 
that AXIS will need to review the findings from the fire service before taking any further 
action. AXIS needs to be sure it can make a decision on the claim when it has the full facts 
in front of it. I dont think AXIS has said it wont deal with the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against AXIS Specialty Europe SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman