DRN-4240462
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited failed to properly investigate 
liability for an accident on a claim he made under his motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr Js motor insurance policy was underwritten by Admiral. One of the named drivers on the 
policy was involved in an accident and the claim was eventually settled by Admiral on a fault 
basis. Mr J complains that Admiral failed to contact the eyewitness and instead just accepted 
the third-party insurers version of events. He says his renewal premiums have increased 
unfairly because of this.
Admiral says it based its claim decision on the version of events provided by the named 
driver and that its decision was communicated, and confirmed in writing, promptly at the 
time. Admiral did however accept that it didnt contact the witness before reaching its 
decision and that there were delays and communication issues. It offered Mr J £125 as 
compensation for the impact of these errors.
Our investigator thought Mr Js complaint should be upheld. She said Admiral needed to 
carry out a thorough investigation into liability but had failed to do so. She said Admiral 
should complete a more thorough investigation, settle the claim on a split liability basis (if 
possible), refund the policy excess as a gesture of goodwill and that it should increase the 
compensation offered to Mr to J £300.
Mr J accepted our investigators opinion, but Admiral didnt. It agreed with the increased 
compensation but maintained its decision on liability was correct based on the 
circumstances of the accident. 
So, as no agreement had been reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a different outcome to that of our investigator. So, I issued a 
provisional decision to give the parties the opportunity to respond before I reached my final 
decision. Heres what I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach a different outcome to our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
 
Mr Js policy entitles Admiral to conduct the defence and settlement of any claim on 
his behalf. That means Admiral can decide whether to accept liability for the accident 
or not. However, our service would expect Admiral to conduct a suitably thorough 
investigation before making any such decision.
Its not in dispute here that Admiral failed to thoroughly investigate the claim. There 
was an eyewitness to the accident whose details it was provided with, yet no contact 
was made. Admiral has apologised and offered compensation for this.
 
Despite this, Admiral maintains its liability decision was correct based on the 
circumstances of the accident. It says the named driver was conducting a manoeuvre 
when contact was made, so had the responsibility for making sure it was safe before 
proceeding. It acknowledges that Mr J says the third party admitted fault at the scene 
but says this cant be proven or relied on.
In circumstances like this, where an insurer hasnt carried out a suitably detailed 
investigation, I need to consider how likely it is that the outcome would be 
fundamentally different, if it had done so.
In this case, Mr J and the named driver have confirmed that the named driver was in 
the process of a manoeuvre, and in motion, at the point of impact. This means the 
named driver was responsible making sure it was safe before pulling out of the bay 
and conducting each stage of the manoeuvre. So, even if Admiral had contacted the 
witness, on balance, I think its more likely than not that the conclusion would still 
have been that the named driver was at fault.
I know Admiral told Mr J it should have tried to pursue a split (50/50) liability claim, 
despite already having accepted liability. But even if Admiral would have been able to 
prove the third-party driver was equally at fault, which I think is unlikely, a split liability 
claim is still recorded as a fault claim, and so would still have had the same impact 
on Mr Js renewal premiums. So, Mr J wouldnt be in a fundamentally different 
position now, even if Admiral had conducted a better investigation.
Based on the above, it follows that Im not intending to direct Admiral to take any 
further action to investigate the claim or to change its liability decision. This also 
means Admiral doesnt need to refund the excess.
However, Admiral has accepted it caused a loss of expectation when it suggested 
pursuing a split liability, despite having already accepted liability, and that its delays 
and communication issues caused undue distress and inconvenience. It has 
accepted our investigators suggestion of £300 compensation. Taking everything into 
account, I agree that £300, in addition to Admirals acknowledgement of fault and its 
apology, are sufficient to fairly resolve this complaint. So, Im minded to direct 
Admiral to pay Mr J that amount  if it hasnt already done so.
I asked both sides to provide any further comments or evidence they wanted me to consider, 
before I reached my final decision.
 
Admiral responded to confirm it had nothing further it wanted to add.
 
Mr J didnt respond, and the deadline to do so has now passed, so Im proceeding with my 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive also thought carefully about any responses to my provisional decision. However, in this 
case, neither party has provided any additional comments or evidence for me to consider. 
So, in the absence of any new evidence or arguments, Ive reached the same conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision  and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Js 
complaint in part.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay Mr J a total of £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman