DRN-2384379
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they were sent incorrect policy documents by Sennocke 
International Insurance Services Limited (Sennocke).
For ease of reading and as he has done all the correspondence in relation to this complaint, 
Ill mostly only refer to Mr H.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. In 2010 Mr H purchased insurance through 
Sennocke. Broadly speaking this was to provide cover against several perils relating to him 
updating a derelict barn to become a residence.  
Initially the policy was taken for 24 months. Then in 2012 it was extended by a further 9 
months. Part of the cover included the costs of certain legal expenses. There were 
significant problems with the build which resulted in a dispute between Mr H and his main 
contractor / architect. Mr Hs claims to the underwriter of his policy were declined. The 
dispute was later settled between Mr H and the contractor, but it still left Mr H with a financial 
loss. Mr H complained to his underwriter about his claims being declined. That complaint 
was referred to our service and in 2017 an ombudsman issued a final decision which, in part, 
directed that a Barristers opinion be sought as to whether or not Mr H would have achieved 
a further settlement compared to how his case ended, if the policy had worked as it should 
have done. 
Mr H also complained to Sennocke, as he believes their failure to provide him with the 
correct policy documents has caused him a loss. Sennocke say that they provided two 
similar policies and due to a system error that has since been corrected they had provided 
Mr H with the wrong policy documents. But they didnt feel this impacted on Mr Hs claim to 
his underwriter, so they didnt think they needed to do more. 
The complaint was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt think it should 
be upheld. She acknowledged that Sennocke themselves had confirmed incorrect policy 
documents had been sent to Mr H. But she didnt think this had had any impact, and so 
didnt recommend that they needed to do more. Mr H disagrees, he says Sennocke are 
involved in a conspiracy with his underwriter to his detriment. He has asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. 
In October 2020 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
It might first be useful to set out the extent of Sennockes responsibilities in relation to this 
complaint. Sennocke were responsible for providing accurate information (in the form of the 
policy documents) to Mr H. I acknowledge that there are ongoing issues between Mr H and 
his underwriter about specifically what the correct policy documents are. With three sets of 
(broadly similar) policy documents being involved. 
In essence, Mr H says his loss arises from the Barrister involved in conducting the 
assessment as directed by the 2017 final decision, relying on the incorrect policy documents. 
That isnt something I can consider here, this complaint is about Sennocke. And Sennocke 
werent the firm directed to arrange the Barristers assessment in 2017, the underwriter and 
respondent to that complaint were.
 
As such, whatever documents Sennocke sent Mr H in 2010 and 2012, neither of these would 
have impacted what the Barrister later assessed. Even if it could be shown that the Barrister 
had the wrong documents and that this resulted in detriment to Mr H, this isnt something 
that Sennocke are responsible for.  
Mr H has also made further allegations against Sennocke, specifically that both his policies 
were mis-sold and that they have conspired with his underwriter to his detriment. I havent 
seen that Mr H has complained to Sennocke about any mis-sale. So, I cant comment on 
such an allegation at this stage. If Mr H feels the policies werent suitable for him, he should 
raise this with Sennocke in the first instance. 
Ive not seen evidence to persuade me that Sennocke have conspired with the underwriter 
as Mr H alleges. Its also hard to understand what benefit there would be for them to do so. 
But this again isnt something that I will comment on in detail. If Mr H feels criminal activity 
has taken place, this is something he should report to the police. Our service cannot 
investigate crime. 
Much of Mr Hs dissatisfaction seems to arise from the previous final decision only directing 
that the outcome of the settlement had to be considered by the Barrister  rather than going 
further. And also with the actions of and decisions taken by the underwriter. But neither of 
these are things that Sennocke are responsible for. And whilst Mr H says he holds Sennocke 
jointly liable, I dont agree this is the case. Sennocke as the broker, arent responsible for 
claims decisions. 
Taking everything into consideration, Sennocke accept that they sent Mr H incorrect policy 
documents. But I agree with our investigator that this hasnt had impact sufficient for me to 
tell Sennocke they need to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Sennocke responded to my decision to say they had nothing further to add. Mr H responded 
and made some further points which Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H suggests that I have misunderstood his complaint. He says he isnt complaining about 
being provided with incorrect policy documents when the policies started. He says his 
complaint is that Sennocke have breached their duty to him by conspiring with others to 
perpetuate a fraud on him and by misrepresenting his policy in 2020. He says that at the 
heart of the matter is that there was no insurance provider at all. He also suggests (amongst 
other things) that the policy wordings Sennocke have provided are counterfeit. 
Ive considered all of this but Im not persuaded to deviate from the outcome I explained in 
my provisional decision. Much of what Mr H is alleging, if proven, would potentially amount 
to criminal activity (selling a policy that never existed and providing counterfeit documents). 
And as I explained in my provisional decision, our service cannot investigate crime. I note 
that Mr H says he has made an allegation to Action Fraud.I accept that there is a dispute about which insurer underwrites Mr Hs policy and I 
acknowledge the business relationships surrounding insurance policies can be complex. But 
irrespective of this, a claim was considered and responded to. And my ombudsman 
colleague found in his final decision that the claim ought to have been accepted by the 
underwriter. So, I dont think its likely Sennocke sold Mr H policies that didnt exist. Any 
complaint about a claim decision is the responsibility of the relevant underwriter, and who 
that is, isnt something I need to determine to fairly resolve this complaint. 
On the facts and evidence of this case, there isnt sufficient evidence to persuade me that 
Sennocke conspired in the way Mr H alleges. And again, it is very difficult to understand 
what benefit there would be for them in doing so. Sennocke are a broker and wouldnt be 
impacted either way in relation to the outcome of Mr Hs insurance claims. I dont think there 
is evidence to support that Sennocke are an agent of either the underwriter or the claims 
handler as Mr H suggests. 
In summary, Im satisfied that policies were sold to Mr H by Sennocke. Sennocke dont 
dispute this. But Im not persuaded Sennocke have conspired against Mr H. And for clarity, I 
remain satisfied that incorrect policy documents were provided to Mr H, but that this didnt 
have sufficient impact that I think they need to do anything further. The underwriter is the 
responsible party for which documents were provided to the Barrister (in response to the 
previous final decision regarding the claim), not Sennocke. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman