DRN-3611555
The complaint
Mrs G complains American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) cancelled her credit 
card without informing her.
What happened
Mrs G says in March 2020 she changed her credit card account to a different style of 
account with Amex. Mrs G says she went to use her credit card in May 2020 to buy 
shopping, but the card was refused, and this was time consuming and frustrating for her. Mrs 
G says when she queried this with Amex she was told her old card had been cancelled and 
a new credit card had been issued to her back in March 2020 when she changed the 
account type. Mrs G says she never received a new credit card from Amex and assumed 
she could continue using her old credit card and furthermore no one explained this to her 
when the new credit card account change took place in March 2020. 
Mrs G feels Amex process shouldnt have allowed her existing credit card to be cancelled 
prior to any new credit card being activated or its receipt acknowledged by her. Mrs G wants 
Amex to compensate her for the inconvenience this has caused. 
Amex says it issued a new credit card to Mrs G in March 2020, when the account type was 
changed, to the address held on its records and cant be held responsible for its non-receipt. 
Amex says it told Mrs G a new credit card would be issued in March 2020 and that it would 
take around 10 days to arrive. Amex dont feel it has made any errors here. 
Mrs G wasnt happy with Amexs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Amex had evidenced it had sent a new credit card to Mrs G in March 2020 
and it couldnt be held responsible for the fact it never arrived. The investigator didnt feel 
Amex had to ensure Mrs G had received her new credit card and felt it had acted reasonably 
here. 
Mrs G didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said:
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mrs G to discover her credit card had 
been cancelled by Amex before she had received a replacement. When looking at this 
complaint I will consider if Amex had issued a replacement credit card to Mrs G before it had 
cancelled her existing credit card. 
Mrs Gs complaint centres around the fact when she changed her credit card account type in 
March 2020, she never received a replacement credit card and only found out her old credit 
card had been cancelled when attempting to use it in May 2020.   
Amex have provided information to this service and Im satisfied an application for a new 
type of credit card was processed by them in early March 2020. Where I have an issue is 
despite requesting it, Amex havent been able to provide any evidence to support its view a 
new credit card was sent to Mrs G in March 2020. 
I have seen details from Amex showing a new type of credit card had been approved and set 
up, but the screen shot provided only suggests that if a new card is due, it would be 
expected to be received within 10 business days. There is nothing to show either by way of 
email, copy letter or internal screen shot/contact notes to evidence that a new credit card 
was actually sent to Mrs G at that time.
This is important as Amex have provided screen shots to show a replacement card was 
issued in May 2020, following Mrs Gs complaint, so I cant see why something similar 
couldnt be provided as we have requested, if a new credit card was ordered and sent to Mrs 
G in March 2020 as it says.
Its worth saying Mrs G is clear neither she or her partner ever received any new credit cards 
in March 2020 and ordinarily, I would accept that non receipt of a card like this doesnt mean 
a card wasnt sent. But here there is no firm evidence it was ever sent, and I would expect 
Amex to be able to provide that evidence, but it hasnt been able to. Amex have also told this 
service the only record it has, is of the replacement card issued in May 2020. 
Its also worth mentioning that Amex have told this service Mrs Gs existing credit card 
should have remained active until the new card was sent, which would have been March 
2020, but that doesnt seem to correspond with the fact Mrs G was still using her old credit 
card until early May 2020.
With that in mind and in all probability, it appears as though while the process to set up the 
new type of credit card took place, a replacement card was not ordered at that time. 
In view of this, I propose Amex pay Mrs G £200 for the trouble and upset this has caused 
her. 
It follows, while Amex will be disappointed with my provisional decision I am satisfied this is 
a fair outcome here. 
Both Mrs G and Amex responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been passed 
back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mrs G and Amex until 21 July 2022 to accept or reject my provisional decision. 
Mrs G accepted my provisional decision and Amex had nothing further to add so with that in 
mind my final decision remains the same.
Putting things right
I instruct American Express Services Europe Limited to pay Mrs G £200 for the trouble and upset this has caused her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct American Express Services Europe Limited to pay Mrs G £200 for the trouble and 
upset this has caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman