DRN-2333738
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund disputed 
transactions made from his bank account. Hed like them refunded. And Mr Js also unhappy 
with the overall service he received from Halifax. 
What happened
Mr J has a current account with Halifax. 
Mr J says that on the 16 January 2020 he didnt authorise an ATM transaction for £101.80. 
Mr J explains on that day he visited a supermarket, Ill call A, to buy some food but left his 
card behind as he needed to run for a bus. Mr J explains later that day he noticed his wallet 
was missing, so he returned to A and fortunately his wallet had been handed in to the desk. 
Mr J explains that his PIN was written on a piece of paper in his wallet. He also disputes a 
number of online card payments made to an energy provider Ill call U. Mr J says hes never 
had an account with U  and the energy provider confirmed the account wasnt in his name 
or registered to his address.
 
Mr J reported the fraud on the 20 January 2020 to Halifax. And hes also unhappy that 
because Halifax called the police to raise concerns about his safety his door was broken 
down. 
Halifax looked into Mr Js complaint, but they didnt uphold it. In summary the bank said:
-It was their duty to call the police. 
-No balance check was  carried out before the disputed transaction. But, the 
maximum amount was taken.
Mr J didnt accept Halifaxs response, so brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Js complaint  but didnt think Halifax needed to do 
anything further. Our investigator contacted U to ask for more details regarding the 
payments but didnt receive a response. Overall, he thought it most likely Mr J authorised the 
disputed transactions because:
-Mr Js made previous payments to U and theres no other energy payments on his 
statement. 
-Its odd Mr J didnt notice the payments to U earlier. 
-Its strange for a fraudster to take and replace a card. 
-No balance checks were carried out before the disputed withdrawal. 
-The disputed withdrawal occurred at 6:45pm but Mr Js explained he collected his 
debit card between 5:30 and 6:30pm. 
-Mr J logged into his online banking on the 18 January 2020 but didnt report the 
disputed withdrawal until the 20 January 2020. 
He also didnt think that Halifax had acted inappropriately in phoning the police  because of 
their duty of care towards Mr J.
 
Mr J didnt accept our investigators view. He explained that Halifax shouldnt have told the 
police he was going to harm himself  and if they hadnt done so his door wouldnt be 
broken.
 
As Mr J didnt accept our investigators opinion its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, Halifax can hold Mr J liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Js genuine card and PIN and long 
card number were used to make the disputed transactions. But the relevant regulations  the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017 - say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Halifax to 
hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more 
likely than not that Mr J consented to the transactions being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax to conclude that Mr J 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
-To make the payments to U a fraudster would need access to Mr Js long card 
number and three digit security code. Mr Js advised he lives on his own buts hes 
provided a number of explanations for how his card details could have been 
compromised including via online websites and computer consoles hes previously 
used. I accept that these are plausible explanations.
-But, If a fraudster did gain access to Mr Js card details I wouldnt expect them to 
carry out online transactions to an energy company over a five month period of time.  
-Mr Js explained his energy supply isnt from U and he uses a key card  but he 
hasnt provided any evidence of payments to any other gas or electricity suppliers. 
-Mr Js been making payments to U since September 2019. Mr Js not been clear on 
whether hes disputing all the payments made to U  but I think this is most likely. I 
find it strange that Mr J didnt identify the payments made to U sooner. 
-Mr Js explained that he left his wallet at A with his debit card and PIN which was 
recorded on a piece of paper in his wallet. Im satisfied its clear theres a possible 
card and PIN compromise. But Mr J also explains he collected his wallet between 
5:30 and 6:30pm on the 16 January 2020  whereas the disputed withdrawal didnt 
occur until 6:45pm. By which point Mr J says his wallet was returned.
 
-The disputed withdrawal was carried out at an ATM around thirteen minutes from A. I 
find it strange that a fraudster gained access to Mr Js wallet, including his card and 
PIN, walked thirteen minutes to an ATM to carry out the disputed withdrawal then 
returned Mr Js wallet to A. I also find it strange a fraudster would hand in Mr Js wallet to A  I see no benefit to a fraudster in doing this and it raises their risk in 
being identified. 
-No balance checks were carried out before the disputed withdrawal  but only one 
transaction was attempted for £101.80. This used almost Mr Js entire balance, 
indicating whoever had the card likely knew his balance. Mr Js online banking was 
accessed at 6:30pm just before the disputed withdrawal  indicating Mr J was fully 
aware of his available balance. 
-After this withdrawal no further attempts were made to use the card.
 
-Mr Js online banking was accessed on the 18 January 2020. I find it strange he 
didnt notice the £101.80 transaction until the 20 January 2020. 
Ive moved on to consider Halifaxs actions in contacting the police. I understand Mr Js 
frustration here  but I think our investigators right. Halifax have a duty of care towards their 
customers  this includes if theyre concerned about the safety of customers referring their 
concerns to police. And it isnt for Halifax to advise the police on what action to take on 
passing on their concerns. Ive listened to the phone call between Mr J and Halifax which 
prompted the bank to call the police. I understand that Mr J argues he didnt specifically say 
he was going to harm himself  but Im satisfied from listening to the call Mr J raises 
sufficient concerns for the call handler to be worried for his safety. And for the reasons Ive 
explained above I cant hold Halifax responsible for the actions of the police. 
In conclusion on balance I think Mr J authorised the disputed transactions. And it follows I 
wont be asking Halifax to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman