DRN-4321884
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) declined her request 
to increase the credit limit on her credit card. She also complains about how they explained 
this decision to her. 
What happened
Mrs P applied to increase the credit limit on her credit card that she holds with Halifax from 
£6,000 to £10,000. Halifax declined this so Mrs P complained to them.
Halifax said in response that they declined Mrs Ps request because it wasnt suitable 
enough for her needs; in particular they felt her outgoings were too high. Halifax set out the 
typical things they consider when customers apply for lending, as follows:
information from Credit Reference Agencies such as missed payments on other 
accounts. 
consistently making only the minimum monthly repayment.
regularly using a credit card to make cash withdrawals or for other higher risk 
transactions (such as gambling). 
regularly using the entire credit limit or exceeding the credit limit. 
missed and late payments on the card in the past. 
the current economic situation.
Mrs P wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and felt theyd insinuated she hadnt managed 
her account well which upset her. Mrs P also wasnt happy with Halifaxs wording in their 
letter about offering support due to a disability. She said Halifax knows she has a disability. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs P didnt agree and so her case has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mrs P was upset when Halifax declined her request to increase her credit 
limit. And Ive considered what shes said about the reasons for this increase. However, 
Halifax is entitled to reject a credit limit increase if they wish, and we wouldnt say their 
decision was flawed if it wasnt inherently unfair. 
Ive seen no compelling evidence that Halifax acted unfairly. I realise Mrs P may feel 
differently about that however lenders arent obliged to increase limits upon request. 
Halifaxs final response letter to Mrs P gave her an answer on why this had been declined, in 
that the decision was based on her outgoings being too high. I realise Halifax gave other 
information about what they consider when customers ask for lending, which Ive set out 
above, and that this upset Mrs P. Im sorry this upset her. Im satisfied though that Halifax 
wanted to explain the information they generally consider when they receive these requests.  
I dont think their intention was to insinuate that this applied to Mrs P and how shed 
managed her account.  Weve told Halifax though that this upset Mrs P and theyve said they 
would like to sincerely apologise if she felt they were speaking ill of her character. 
Ive considered Halifaxs wording in their final response letter asking Mrs P to get in touch if 
she needed support due to a disability. I think it likely this is something Halifax puts in all 
their final response letters as a matter of course. I dont think this was intended to ignore the 
fact that Halifax already knew Mrs P had a disability; rather it was probably general wording 
offering support to customers to whom they send letters. I dont find that unreasonable 
although Halifax should consider how they word future correspondence to Mrs P relating to 
this. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman