DRN-2040153
The complaint
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should 
accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the 
seller in my decision.
Mrs H says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out alongside a store card in 1997, it was sold 
in store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. Mrs H said, through her representative, 
Mr H, in summary:
she was not made aware PPI was being added. The tick box couldve been 
selected after she completed the form;
there was no risk of her being made redundant. She had worked for her employer 
for over 12 years and was highly respected;
she had sickness cover through work, so had no need for a separate policy.
Her work cover provided her with more cover, 100% cover. This policy was more 
expensive than most and provided her with only 15% cover. She had effectively 10 
times more cover through work; and
it was wrong to assume that she wouldve found the policy useful.
What Ive decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Mrs H aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before 
adding PPI. I dont know what was said at the time the policy was sold. So, as well as 
taking into account what Mrs Hs said, Ive looked at the paperwork from the time of sale.
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs Hs store card application form. The form had a separate 
section for PPI and the option to take PPI was selected on Mrs Hs form. The form was 
then signed to say she wanted PPI. As Mrs H was signing an important financial 
document, I think it wouldve been reasonable to expect her to take the time she needed 
to read over the form before signing it. The paperwork made it clear that PPI was optional. 
So I think its likely AXA made it clear that Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it. I havent seen anything to lead me to the conclusion that more likely than 
not the tick selecting PPI was added after Mrs H signed the form. I say that noting that 
there were a few other optional products that werent selected. I think it more likely that 
Mrs H chose the optional products she wanted.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs H got clear information so she could make and informed 
choice and decide if she wanted to buy it.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Mrs H has told us she wouldve got sick pay from her employer, three months 
worth at full pay and three months worth at half pay. Shes also said she had savings at 
the time and family wouldve helped with her repayments. Shes said there was no risk of 
her being made redundant as she was highly regarded at work. 
The PPI would have paid on top of Mrs Hs sick pay and possibly for longer than her work 
benefits wouldve covered her for. I say this because the policy wouldve paid 15% of her 
balance until she was no longer sick (an indefinite period) or her balance was cleared, 
whereas her work benefits wouldve covered her for a maximum of six months in one go. 
Also, the PPI covered 15% of her store card repayments. Whereas if Mrs H wasnt 
working, her sick pay from work wouldve replaced her income. It wouldve therefore had 
to cover all her usual household expenses, not just her store card repayments. Therefore, 
I cant see that the level of existing cover that Mrs H had, including her savings, made this 
policy inappropriate for her.
I accept that Mrs Hs family may have wanted to help with her repayments if she wasnt 
working. But this help wasnt guaranteed, so I havent placed any reliance on this. And 
unforeseen circumstances can arise, which can put even the most secure jobs at risk. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. As she couldve benefitted 
from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information about these things 
wouldve affected her decision take out PPI. It also looks like the PPI was affordable and 
she couldve cancelled it at any time. I cant see that Mrs H has lost out because of anything 
that AXA did wrong, so I dont uphold this complaint.
So, looked at overall, like our adjudicator, I also think the PPI could have been useful to her 
and it wasnt inappropriate for her needs given her circumstances at the time
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman