DRN-4044554
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) asked why he was withdrawing 
£15,000 in cash from his account. He says having to explain the purpose for withdrawing 
funds, before a request is granted, is an invasion of his privacy. 
What happened
In January 2023 Mr W made a request to withdraw £15,000 in cash from an RBS branch. 
But before the bank staff would allow a cash withdrawal of that size, he was told he needed 
to show some ID and give the reason for needing the funds. Mr W says he told staff it was 
for personal use but didnt feel he should have to expand further on what he planned to use 
the money for. As a result RBS refused to provide the funds  and provided written 
confirmation of its reasons.
Mr W raised a complaint about the cash withdrawal being declined. He argued he should be 
allowed to withdraw and spend his money as he sees fit, without having to explain his 
actions to RBS. Mr W acknowledged RBSs terms allowed it to intervene in specific 
circumstances, but he didnt think it had cause to reasonably suspect one of those might 
apply when it declined the withdrawal. So he queried the specific grounds on which RBS had 
withheld his funds from him  and asked the bank to explain which article of law it relied on 
to overrule his protections under The Human Rights Act (HRA). 
RBS responded to say it didnt have a particular article of law to quote him, but thought the 
refusal to allow the withdrawal was justified under its terms and conditions. RBS said the act 
of withdrawing such a large amount in cash was enough to suspect the request could be 
related to a scam. Mr W replied that the bank knew he didnt use online banking or a mobile 
phone  and as a lot of scams happen online, he was excluded from that straight away. He 
also raised he hadnt asked for this protection  and, as an adult, didnt consider he needed 
it. As he disagreed with RBSs stance, he referred the complaint to our service for review. 
An investigator here considered everything and didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. 
In her view, RBS had acted appropriately by carrying out checks to safeguard Mr W and his 
money. The investigator concluded that RBS had its own duties and legal obligations to 
follow  which she thought justified the line of questioning. The investigator also noted that 
only a court could make a finding on whether the HRA had been breached. 
Mr W didnt accept the investigators view. He said it didnt address his argument that the 
banks terms had contravened his rights under the HRA  namely his right to privacy, as well 
as access to and use of his property. Mr W asked us to recommend that RBS introduced an 
option to allow an adult customer to be able to withdraw a sum over £2,000 without being 
subjected to invasive questions regarding the intended use. He also thought compensation 
was warranted for his wasted time and the distress caused by the banks policy. 
The investigators view didnt change, so the complaint was passed to me, and ombudsman, 
for a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, Ive taken 
account of the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint and find RBS acted fairly. I appreciate 
that will come as a disappointment to Mr W, who seems passionate about his rights  but 
Ive explained how I reached my decision below.
The investigator was correct in saying I dont have the power to make a finding in law that 
any human rights have been breached. But when making a determination of whats 
reasonable in a scenario, I must have regard for the law  though Im free to depart from it if 
I consider that produces the fairest result. 
Mr W has alluded to his rights under Article 1 Protocol 1 of the HRA, which protects his right 
to enjoy his property peacefully  but also Article 8, and the right to respect for his privacy. 
Neither of those are absolute rights under the Act, they are qualified  meaning it can be 
permissible to infer with those rights if its in the interest of the wider community or to protect 
other peoples rights. In practice that usually refers to having a legitimate aim to do things 
like comply with the law, prevent crime, or safeguard people from harm. Any aims that limit 
peoples rights under the HRA must strike a fair balance between the interests of a property 
owner and the general interests of society as a whole.
The need to, on occasion, infringe on certain rights is translated into RBSs terms. Those say 
the bank may delay or refuse to act on instructions if, for example, it reasonably suspects it 
might be connected to a scam or could cause the bank to breach a law or regulation. I dont 
think Mr W is arguing that the prevention of crime or adhering to the law arent sometimes 
good reasons for his rights to come second. His point is it wasnt justified in this case. But, 
respectfully, I dont agree.
Im not surprised RBS had difficulty pinpointing an article of law to quote as its reason for 
questioning Mr W over what he planned to use the money for  as there are dozens of laws 
and regulatory obligations that intersect here, and set RBSs duty. Wanting to withdraw 
£15,000 in cash will inherently be a flag for most banks  and rightly so. Thats an unusual 
request, given there are far safer ways to send such a large amount today. It was also very 
unusual in the context of how Mr W usually operated the account. 
Dealing in cash removes oversight, and there are a couple of obvious potential reasons why 
someone might seek to do that, like for illegal purposes  or, as was RBSs concern here, 
being scammed or coerced into doing so. A withdrawal like that could also be for completely 
valid reasons, but I find it should be possible to easily explain those without needing to share 
how every penny will be spent. RBS wasnt asking for that here  it just needed to be 
satisfied Mr W wasnt at risk, and that it too wasnt at risk of facilitating something it (legally) 
shouldnt. I consider that was a legitimate aim, and though the questioning infringed on his 
privacy to a minor degree, it wasnt an onerous request. I find it was justified in the 
circumstances, given what was at stake. Mr W will likely disagree with my comment that it 
was a minor infringement, but I dont consider telling bank staff the purpose of a withdrawal 
amounts to a major invasion of privacy  if the purpose has sound basis. So, Ive decided 
RBS acted fairly in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr W doesnt feel he is susceptible to being scammed, and I truly hope he is 
never a victim of one. But scams nowadays can be very sophisticated, and arent just limited to people who use online banking or mobiles. I know he feels he didnt ask for that 
protection, and believes he should be able to opt out of it as an adult. But he isnt able to, 
and I dont think it would be fair for RBS to allow that. By choosing to keep his money with 
RBS in accordance with its terms, Mr W opted for that protection. Once engaged, the banks 
duty isnt just to him  it has legal and regulatory obligations which impose a responsibility to 
protect the interests of wider society. Those requirements on RBS remain, even if Mr W 
doesnt want the oversight that comes with them.  
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2023.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman