DRN-2815880
The complaint
Mr N complains about how PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA dealt with a dispute about an 
item he sold.
What happened
Mr N sold an item via an online company I will call E for just over £500. He says the item 
was a vacuum packer and he packaged it appropriately for delivery. Mr N says the buyer 
made a claim to E that was rejected and later to PayPal that the item was damaged on 
delivery. He says the buyers claim was successful despite him providing evidence to PayPal 
that wasnt responded to.
PayPal says it found in favour of the buyer as Mr N didnt comply with its Sellers Protection 
agreement by rejecting the item when it was returned to him. It says its agreement makes 
clear that an item damaged in shipment may be described as significantly not as described 
which in turn means a seller is required to accept the returned item as part of the agreement.
Mr N brought his complaint to us and says his terms and conditions made clear that no 
returns were accepted and says the item was in full working order when it was sent. He has 
provided a video and photographs confirming that. And says the delivery company 
confirmed to him that there was no damage caused in transit. Mr N says the buyer told him 
he was arranging insurance cover for the transport and says the vacuum packer was 
industrial machinery and so not covered under PayPals buyer protection scheme.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and thought PayPals agreement stated an item 
could be significantly not as described if damaged during shipment which meant again 
under the agreement that a seller must accept the returned item. The investigator thought Mr 
N had refused to accept the returned item and so PayPal hadnt made a mistake. He also 
thought the item wasnt industrial machinery and hadnt seen any evidence about what the 
shipping company said about the damage.
Mr N doesnt accept that view and in summary maintains the item was industrial machinery 
and says the buyer was involved in industrial production. He questions why the buyer didnt 
make an insurance claim and says the buyer protection scheme is an unfair contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I will explain. I appreciate Mr N will be disappointed by my decision. I also make 
clear that I cant fairly comment on the actions of E and in this decision can only look at the 
actions of PayPal in deciding if it made a mistake or acted unfairly.
I have looked carefully at PayPals agreements about seller and buyer protection. I can see 
that the agreement makes clear that where an item is damaged in shipping, then it can be 
described as significantly not as described. The agreement goes on to say that in those 
circumstances a seller is required to accept the item back. There is no dispute here that Mr 
N didnt accept the item back. And I have not seen any evidence that suggests the damage 
was caused outside of transit. So, I dont think PayPal made a mistake or acted unfairly by 
concluding that Mr N hadnt kept to the terms of the agreement and by asking him to repay 
the balance.
I appreciate Mr N says his own terms and conditions made clear that no returns were 
accepted. But I dont think they had any relevance to PayPals decision here as its 
agreement conditions are clear. And Mr Ns own terms and conditions were between him 
and the buyer and not PayPal.
I also appreciate that Mr N says the item was industrial and so the seller shouldnt have 
been covered by PayPals buyer protection. But I make clear to Mr N that its not our role to 
decide if an item is industrial or not and that such matters are for PayPal to decide upon. I 
can also see from Mr Ns video of the item that he demonstrated its use by the sealing of a 
small item. And so I think PayPal is entitled to reasonably consider if an item is for the 
involvement in industrial manufacture or not and apply its own commercial judgement.
I accept Mr N will have unanswered questions about why the buyer waited for some time 
before raising the issue of damage and about the existence of a valid insurance policy for 
the transit. Those are questions that I cant answer, and we cant ask the buyer to explain 
those matters. It is also not our role to decide if a contract is unfair as Mr N suggests and it 
would be for a court to determine such matters.
Overall, Im satisfied that PayPal acted in line with its protection agreements. I sympathise 
with Mr Ns position as I accept that he has provided evidence that he appropriately 
prepared the vacuum packer for shipping and that he didnt describe it as new as the buyer 
says but like new. But I hope Mr N appreciates that those are not matters that I can 
properly consider in this complaint, and I have to decide if PayPal complied with the terms 
and conditions of the agreements, which I have found it did.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman