DRN-2761022
The complaint
Mrs I says Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk lent to her 
irresponsibly. She says that she was in severe financial difficulty when she borrowed from 
Moneyboat.co.uk. She says that Moneyboat.co.uk should have found out about this and not 
lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Moneyboat.co.uk provided to Mrs I in July 2019. 
Mrs I borrowed £500. This was due to be repaid in five monthly instalments of £165. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because he thought that Moneyboat.co.uk had 
information that showed Mrs I was in financial difficulty. And better checks wouldve 
confirmed this.
Moneyboat.co.uk disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that, whilst the credit 
reference agency information did show Mrs I had other financial commitments, it wouldnt 
be practical to fully review all of the information it had before approving this loan. This was 
partly due to its automated processes, and partly as it said its consumers require a quick 
decision about lending.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Moneyboat.co.uk needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mrs I could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat.co.uk should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
As our adjudicator explained, Moneyboat.co.uks credit checks showed that Mrs I had taken 
significant amounts of other lending of various types. This would be due to be repaid at the 
same time as the Moneyboat.co.uk loan. I think there was enough evidence of finacial 
problems to say that Moneyboat.co.uk shouldve looked further into Mrs Is circumstances.
Moneyboat.co.uk has said that it didnt fully consider the information it had about Mrs I 
before lending. This was to ensure that it provided a quick and efficient service to her. And 
it also says that the FCA guidance does not say that it needed to look at each line of a 
credit file in respect of each loan, particularly early on in the lending relationship.
But Moneyboat.co.uk had information that showed Mrs I was possibly in financial difficulty. 
And having looked at the credit file information Moneyboat.co.uk has supplied I dont think 
its difficult to see this. The first few pages of the credit file information Moneyboat.co.uk has 
supplied show that Mrs I had significant amounts of other lending, both newly started and 
historic. There is more detail about this later in the report. Shed had some problems 
repaying this in the past. 
I think its reasonable to say that this information was easily accessible to 
Moneyboat.co.uk. And it follows that its also reasonable to say that Moneyboat.co.uk 
should have fully considered it.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check before approving this loan would most 
likely have shown that Mrs I did have significant amounts of a debt including other short 
term loans and high cost credit. She was making signficant repayments to all of her debt. 
And her bank statements shows that she was overdrawn by around £4,000, and she was 
clearly struggling to make ends meet at times.
I think that Moneyboat.co.uk wouldve found out this information if it had made 
proportionate checks. And I think Moneyboat.co.uk wouldve seen Mrs I wouldnt have 
been able repay the loan in a sustainable way. So I think that Moneyboat.co.uk shouldnt 
have given this loan to Mrs I and I think shes lost out as a result of this. So Im upholding 
Mrs Is complaint.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Moneyboat.co.uk should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
about what might have happened had it hadnt lent to Mrs I, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs I may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs I in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs I would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Moneyboat.co.uks liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Moneyboat.co.uk shouldnt have given Mrs I this loan.
A) Moneyboat.co.uk should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs I towards 
interest, fees and charges on this loan, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Moneyboat.co.uk should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made 
by Mrs I which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs I originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Moneyboat.co.uk should pay Mrs I the total of A plus B.
D) Moneyboat.co.uk should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mrs Is credit 
file in relation to this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat.co.uk to deduct tax from this interest. 
Moneyboat.co.uk should give Mrs I a certificate showing how much tax Moneyboat.co.uk has 
deducted, if she asks for one.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Is complaint.
Evergreen Finance London Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman