DRN-4439593
The complaint
Mrs Ks complaint is about some enquiries she made with Xbridge Limited trading as Simply 
Business (Simply Business) about a landlords insurance policy she purchased from them.
Mrs K says that Simply Business treated her unfairly.
What happened
Mrs K took out a landlords insurance policy through Simply Business. She also had another 
policy in place from a different seller with similar benefits, so she wanted to check which 
policy provided a better level of cover before cancelling the other. 
Mrs K says she checked the policy Simply Business sold her and saw that there was a 90-
day exclusion in place for making a claim against tenants, but she wanted to make sure this 
didnt apply to her because she had continuous cover in place with a different provider. Mrs 
K says she called Simply Business to clarify this, and they told her she would be covered for 
claims within the first 90 days.
Mrs Ks complaint relates to how Simply Business handled further queries she had about the 
policy. Shes unhappy with how they dealt with her request for clarity around whether the 
references shed obtained for her tenants accorded with the policy conditions, as she wanted 
to make sure she was covered in the event her tenant defaulted on the rent.
In response to this request Simply Business said they couldnt provide advice about that. 
They referred her to a financial advisor or a Government, website which they thought might 
be able to help her. Unhappy with this response, Mrs K complained to Simply Business, but 
her request wasnt treated as a complaint. She then chased Simply Business for this who 
accepted that they should have treated her request as a complaint and offered her £50 in 
compensation together with an apology. They also referred Mrs K to the insurer of the policy 
for clarity on the question shed raised. 
Mrs K remained unhappy with Simply Business response. Simply Business considered what 
shed said and accepted that she should have been directed to the policy insurer sooner, 
which might have prevented her from having to complain to them. They also increased their 
offer of compensation to £75. Mrs K was still not satisfied with this so made a complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. In making her complaint shes also said shes unhappy 
with Simply Business request for her to provide identification documents before they 
considered her subject access request.
Our investigator considered Mrs Ks complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. 
She said that Simply Business had accepted theyd done somethings wrong and the apology 
and offer theyd made was adequate to compensate her for this. She also concluded that 
Simply Business were entitled to ask for identification documents before considering her 
request for information. Mrs K doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to 
determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Ive explained why below.
In reaching my conclusions I can assure Mrs K that I have considered everything shes said 
but I wont be addressing each and every submission shes made. Thats not intended to be 
disrespectful, it simply represents the informal nature of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Businesses have a number of obligations to their customers enshrined in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys rules. Our remit extends to considering those rules as well as whether 
the business complained about has conducted itself fairly and reasonably. In this case the 
issue is whether Simply Business did something wrong in how they addressed Mrs Ks 
question to them. Simply Business have already accepted they did- so I dont need to 
determine this issue in any great detail. In particular they accepted they should have 
signposted Mrs K to the insurer of the policy much sooner and treated her dissatisfaction of 
their handling of things as a complaint earlier than they did. 
I appreciate Mrs K thinks Simply Business did more wrong than this, but I dont agree. Shes 
unhappy with the details she was given for the insurer, which she says didnt put her through 
to the right place to have her query answered. Its quite clear from Mrs Ks submissions that 
even before Simply Business were able to properly address her complaint, she was able to 
make contact with the insurer of the policy to discuss her query with them, whether or not the 
contact details later given werent quite right and irrespective of whether the insurer dealt 
with her query in the way she wanted them to. Whats also clear is that Mrs K is what wed 
consider a more sophisticated policyholder. She talks about experience with previous 
commercial policies of this nature, that she worked in the City and is aware of the Financial 
Conduct Authority regulations. Her experience is supported by her very specific queries 
about the policy in question on this occasion, which she says arises out of previous claims 
being turned down as a result of non-compliance with policy conditions. Shes also said she 
checked the position with the insurer of the other policy she took out which covered the 
same circumstances. So, I dont think the contact information Simply Business gave her 
about the insurer caused her any problems in making contact with them. Indeed, she did this 
without their assistance or signposting which she sets out in her complaint letter to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. As such, Im not satisfied she was caused any prejudice at 
all by the information she was given. And whilst I appreciate that shes unhappy with the 
actions of the insurer too, I cant say that the onus fell on Simply Business to step in and 
answer questions they werent able to address or to help her resolve these with the insurer 
directly. 
Im also satisfied that the position Simply Business took to eventually refer Mrs K to the 
insurer of the policy was the most appropriate in the circumstances. Whilst they do have a 
duty to provide her with information about the policy, sufficient to allow her to make her mind 
up about taking it out at the time of sale, we wouldnt expect them to be able to answer 
specific underwriting questions like the one Mrs K was asking i.e., whether the reference she 
obtained complied with the policy conditions. Thats a question for the insurer. So, I dont 
think they did anything wrong here. And I think the sum they offered her in compensation 
together with an apology for what they accepted they did wrong is adequate in the 
circumstances. 
Mrs K is also unhappy that she was put to the trouble of providing identification documents in 
response to her request for any documents between Simply Business and the insurer of the 
policy to be disclosed to her that were relevant to her complaint, when no documents were available. Simply Business said they didnt know that at the time they asked for identification 
documents that no documents were available; it was only after they investigated this that it 
came to light that the communications between them and the insurer were verbal. I dont 
think Simply Business were wrong to ask for Mrs K to provide her identification documents 
before they looked into things. Their request was in line with the guidelines issued by the 
Information Commissioners Office in response to subject access requests, much like the 
one Mrs K made. So, whilst Mrs K feels that being asked to provide identification documents 
was pointless, Simply Business were entitled to verify who she was in this way before 
looking into her request for information. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint about Xbridge Limited 
trading as Simply Business.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman