DRN-3167621
The complaint
Mr M complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled his claim for subsidence 
on his home insurance.
What happened
Mr M had home insurance with UKI for his property. In 2016 he made a claim after noticing 
movement and cracks in the garage. UKI sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and 
they identified further movement to the main house and added this to the claim.
Over the months and years that followed, monitoring and investigations were carried out on 
both the garage and main house. During this time UKI offered a cash settlement for the 
garage as this needed to be rebuilt.
The main house required further monitoring and this was set up in 2018. However there 
were some delays to obtaining the results of this monitoring as Mr M was only available on 
Saturdays which UKI struggled to accommodate. The final reading was taken in January 
2020.
Following this UKI said it was satisfied both structures were not stable and put together a 
scope of works. They offered a cash settlement to Mr M but he wasnt satisfied that the 
scope covered all the necessary repairs. As agreement couldnt be reached, UKI agreed to 
appoint an independent surveyor to review the property and garage and report on their 
stability and the necessary repairs. There was some further dispute about who the 
independent surveyor should be and the wording of the instruction to them.
Throughout this time Mr M made a complaint about the progress of the claim. He said it had 
been ongoing for over four years and no work had begun on the repairs. In December 2020 
UKI responded to his complaint. It said that while there had been some delays that were 
outside of its control, it agreed there were times where it could have progressed the claim 
more quickly. It offered £800 compensation to apologise for these delays.
Mr M didnt agree this was enough and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended Mr Ms complaint be upheld. 
She thought UKI had caused a number of avoidable delays and that it should pay an 
additional £300 compensation to make up for these. 
UKI agreed to pay the additional compensation. However Mr M didnt agree this was 
enough. He said that the independent surveyor had since found that the repair schedules 
werent sufficient and the buildings required further monitoring. So thought UKI should pay 
additional compensation. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to start by making clear the remit of this decision. Here, I am only 
considering issues relating to Mr Ms complaint that was addressed by UKI in its final 
response letter of December 2020. I understand that since this time there have been further 
issues and delays that Mr M feels he should be compensated for. However this should first 
be addressed by UKI, and if Mr M remains unhappy after that, can be brought to our service 
as part of a new complaint. I will therefore only be looking at events up until December 2020.
Subsidence claims, by their nature, often take a long time to resolve. There will usually be 
periods of monitoring where it may feel like no progress is being made. When looking at this 
complaint I have considered whether UKI has caused any delays that could have been 
avoided, and if so how these have impacted Mr M, in order to decide if its done enough to 
put things right.
Ive considered the timelines provided by both UKI and Mr M as well as the large volume of 
correspondence throughout the claim. And I agree that during the four years from when the 
claim was raised, until UKIs final response in 2020, little progress was made towards 
resolving the claim. I also agree that during some of this time UKI could have done more to 
move the claim forward. 
For example, after the initial investigations had taken place, UKI said it would put together a 
scope of works and go out to tender to get costs. However between August 2017 and March 
2018 no contact was made with Mr M. And during this time, UKI did very little in proactively 
obtaining the required tenders. So I think this delay could have been avoided. And the time 
Mr M went without an update would have caused him distress in not knowing what was 
happening with his claim and the inconvenience of having to chase UKI for an update.
There were also significant delays in obtaining monitoring readings. This was due to a 
dispute over when UKIs expert could attend Mr Ms property. He said he would only be able 
to attend Saturday appointments due to working in the week. And there was no one else 
who could attend on his behalf. This disagreement about days the expert could attend meant 
that while monitoring commenced in June 2018, it continued until January 2020, with only 
three readings taken in this time. 
When dealing with a claim, particularly one for something as substantial as subsidence, 
there is a certain amount of inconvenience that can be expected as part of making and 
preparing the claim. This can involve those making the claim having to make arrangements 
for various experts to attend their property. I understand Mr M has a busy schedule and 
found it difficult to make arrangements for the property to be attended on any day other a 
Saturday. However UKI explained that this would make it harder for its contractors to attend, 
and therefore it would take longer for appointments to become available. So because of this 
I cant hold UKI fully responsible for the delays during this time. 
Having said that, I think it could have done more during this time to move the claim forward. 
At the end of 2018 Mr M made his availability clear to UKI. However between January and 
March 2019, UKI appeared to take no action to try and find a suitable Saturday with its 
contractor or to come up with an alternative solution. Even though after this date it was able 
to arrange visits either by paying Mr M for his time to take the day off, or by finding suitable 
Saturdays. So I think it should have done more to move things forward in that time.
Finally, after UKIs engineer visited Mr Ms property at the end of 2019 it took many months 
for a report to be produced after this date. Which meant no further progress could be made 
on the claim. So based on this, I agree there has been at least 12 months of delays that could have been 
avoided by UKI, in the time up to December 2020. 
Ive also considered the impact these delays have had on Mr M. He has explained that while 
he wasnt living in the property, he intended to move in with his new wife so that they could 
start there life together there. And that the stress of the claim has delayed their plans and led 
to significant distress that means they no longer wish to live at the property. Further he has 
had to be in constant contact with UKI to chase responses to his emails and get updates on 
his claim. This has been very inconvenient.
Based on this, I agree with our investigator that UKI should pay a further £300 compensation 
to make up for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him. This means it should pay a 
total of £1,100 compensation in total to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to pay 
an additional £300 compensation, in addition to the £800 already offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman