DRN-3646562
The complaint
Miss R complains that Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd mis-sold her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss R bought an insurance policy through Right Choice. She had a claim on her car 
insurance policy and was told by her insurer that there was a £3,000 all sections
Excess which means that Miss R was responsible for the first £3,000 of a claim whether she 
claimed on her policy, or a third party claimed against it. Miss R thought her excess was less 
than this so complained to Right Choice about the sale of her policy. In particular, she said 
she didnt know there was a £3,000 all sections excess.
Right Choice reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said Miss R had been told in
the initial sales call the excess was £3,000 and shed been sent an excess declaration form
which explained the excess. They also said the excess was made clear on the policy 
documents shed been sent. Miss R didnt agree and referred her complaint here.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She found that
Right Choice had told Miss R in the initial sales call that her excess was £3,000. They also
found that the policy documents showed this, and that Miss R had been sent an excess
declaration form which she needed to sign and agree to before the policy would start.
Miss R disagreed, she said Right Choice had never explained it was an all sections excess
and if they had she wouldnt have bought the policy.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 September 2022 where I said:
Where a sale is on a non-advised basis a firm has a duty to provide information in a way 
that is clear, fair and not misleading to enable the customer to decide if the policy is suitable 
for them.
Miss Rs policy was sold over the phone in a non-advised sale. Ive listened to the initial
sales call and the advisor says there is a £3,000 total excess and asks Miss R is that is okay
to which she replies yes.
When listening to the call I agree Right Choice didnt do enough to let Miss R know it was an
all sections excess and what that means. I say that because I think an all sections excess is
unusual and something that she should be fully informed of when buying the policy to enable
her to decide if the policy is suitable for her. And when considering it was during the call Miss
R made the decision to purchase the policy, Im not satisfied Right Choice ensured Miss R
could make an informed decision about the policy before buying it, as she wasnt made
aware of the all sections excess and what this means.
However, in order to uphold this complaint, Id need to decide that the lack of information
provided by Right Choice caused Miss R a loss she wouldnt otherwise have had. So, Ive
also considered the documentation sent to Miss R following the call and that there is an
excess declaration form which needed to be signed and returned before the policy would
start.
Ive reviewed the excess declaration form and it says:
The excess on your policy is £3,000 (unless a higher figure is shown 
on your policy documents). This is for accidental damage, malicious
damage, fire and theft. The excess will also be payable in the event of 
a third party claim, so even if you dont claim on the policy and 
payments are made to a third party, you will pay the excess, or the 
value of the claim up to the value of the excess. The excess applies 
regardless of who is driving the vehicle.
While the document doesnt call it an all sections excess, Im satisfied it does explain that the
excess is payable even if Miss R doesnt claim on her policy. And as Miss R signed this form
and returned it before the policy started, Im not persuaded that if Right Choice had made 
her aware of the excess in the sales call that she wouldnt have bought the policy. I say this
because she continued with the policy after receiving this form and signing it and only said
she wouldnt have bought it after a claim arose.
I understand this isnt the answer Miss R was hoping for, but when considering the failings in
the sales call and the documentation sent to her which she signed and returned before the
policy went live. Im not persuaded she would have done anything differently.
Right Choice didnt respond to my provisional decision. Miss R responded and disagreed 
with my provisional decision. Miss R said it was unfair for me to read peoples minds and 
presume she would have taken the policy if shed been told about the £3,000 all sections 
excess. Miss R also referred to a call she made when her car was stolen and said shed 
been told she didnt have insurance cover. Miss R also said she doesnt believe there is a 
relationship between Right Choice and her insurer as she hadnt signed anything.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Miss Rs response, but it hasnt persuaded me to change my 
mind. I say this because while I agree she wasnt provided with clear, fair and not 
misleading information to enable her to decide if the policy was suitable, Im not 
persuaded it means she would have done anything differently as she later signed 
the excess declaration form. 
Having reviewed the information again, I can see the signed excess declaration 
form is dated after the policy went live, but before Miss R made a claim. So, while 
the policy appears to have gone live before Right Choice made Miss R aware of 
the full details of the excess, Im not persuaded it changes the outcome of her 
complaint, as she signed it before the claim occurred. Im therefore satisfied Right 
Choice did enough to make her aware of the all sections excess before a claim 
occurred and she could have made the choice to not continue with the policy at 
that point. 
I understand Miss R has said Im reading her mind and thats unfair. However, I have to 
reach a decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened. And as Miss R 
signed a document to say that she understood that her policy would require her to pay 
£3,000 in the event of a claim being made against her, Im not persuaded Miss R wouldnt 
have gone ahead with this policy if Right Choice had been clearer about this during the sales 
call. I Ive also considered Miss Rs point about the call she had when she claimed. However, that 
isnt part of this complaint and so Miss R would need to raise that separately to this 
complaint, if not already done so. 
Miss R also said that she doesnt feel there is an agreement between Right Choice and her 
insurer as she didnt sign anything. In this complaint Im considering whether Right Choice 
mis-sold her policy. And while Miss R feels there is no agreement between Right Choice and 
her insurer, the issue Ive considered here is whether Right Choice mis-sold her policy and 
the impact that had. So Im not going to comment on whether there is an agreement between 
Right Choice and her insurer as Im not persuaded that makes a difference to whether Right 
Choice mis-sold this policy. 
I appreciate this isnt the answer Miss R would like and appreciate the impact the claim has 
had on her. But Im not going to tell Right Choice to do anything different. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman