DRN-4244833
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about delays and problems taking out new interest rate products for 
their mortgages with Barclays Bank UK PLC. Mr K has dealt with the complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K have a residential mortgage and buy to let mortgage with Barclays. Mr K says 
there were delays in processing a rate switch in May 2022. Barclays upheld this part of the 
complaint. It backdated the product rate to 1 May 2022 and offered compensation for the 
upset this caused.
In late September 2022 Mr K emailed an advisor at Barclays hed previously dealt with about 
a rate switch for their buy to let mortgage. He says they missed out on lower interest rate 
products because they didnt receive a prompt reply, and werent told the window for taking 
out a new product had increased from 90 days to 150 days prior to the existing product 
expiring. Barclays didnt uphold this part of the complaint. 
Our investigator said Barclays offer was fair. She said there was no requirement for 
Barclays to tell Mr and Mrs K about the increase in the switch window. She said given the 
short time between Mr K emailing the mortgage adviser and product rates increasing, it was 
unlikely Mr and Mrs K would have been able to secure a product before rates increased 
even if the mortgage adviser had responded sooner.
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree. Mr K said he asked Barclays specifically about the switching 
window. He didnt consider it fair that he missed out on better interest rates due to the 
adviser he emailed being away from work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
The rate switch for the buy to let mortgage
Mr K sent an email to one of Barclays mortgage advisers on 28 September 2022. He asked 
for an appointment to discuss re-mortgaging and options for borrowing more for a new 
purchase. He asked if it was still the case that he could secure a rate 90 days before his 
current product expired.
The adviser was away. Mr K contacted another adviser on 4 October 2022 and met with a 
mortgage adviser on 10 October 2022. The adviser said his rate was due to expire on 28 
February 2023 and he could apply for a new product up to 150 days before this, which would 
have been from 1 October 2022. Mr K applied for a new product straightaway. 
Mr K says if hed been told sooner that the switching window was 150 days, or had a prompt 
response to his email on 28 September 2022, hed have been able to secure a product 
before rates increased on 4 October 2022. He asks that Barclays allows him to take out a 
rate available on 3 October 2022. 
While I appreciate Mr Ks frustration, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays 
to do this. When making my decision, Ive taken the following into account.
Barclays is entitled to change its range of products at any time and without notice. Mr K 
didnt apply for a new product before Barclays changed its product range on 4 October 
2022. 
Barclays didnt give Mr K incorrect information. Mr K says he was told in August 2022 
that the switching window was 90 days. That was correct at that time, as the change to 
150 days was made in September 2022. 
Barclays doesnt have to tell customers when it changes policies, such as increasing the 
switching window. It didnt have to inform Mr K of this change in September 2022. 
Barclays says customers with rates expiring at the end of February 2023 (like Mr and 
Mrs K) were due to be sent mail on 6 October 2022 about taking out a new rate. Mr K 
says he didnt receive this. This doesnt change the outcome of this complaint, as this 
would have been received after rates had increased on 4 October 2022. 
The mortgage adviser Mr K met with in October 2022 correctly told him he could apply 
for a new rate at that time  which he did.
The adviser Mr K emailed on 28 September 2022 was away due to sickness. Barclays 
says Mr K didnt have an appointment and other members of the team werent aware of 
his email. It says Mr K didnt need to email the adviser to make an appointment  he 
could have called Barclays or booked an appointment online. 
Mr K was aware that the adviser was away due to sickness in mid-August 2022, and his 
email on 28 September 2022 says he hopes shes better. I think Mr K was aware of the 
possibility that the adviser might not have returned to work. If Mr K wanted an urgent 
response to his query, he could have considered contacting Barclays in a different way 
or looked on its website. 
Mr K says if a staff member is away Barclays should still respond within 24, 28 or 72 
hours. Even if Barclays had responded within this timeframe, it seems unlikely that Mr K 
would have been offered an appointment on or before 3 October 2022 (three working 
days after his email). Barclays says it had high demand for appointments at that time. 
Mr K says he could have taken out a product on-line if hed known he was able to do so. 
I need to bear in mind that Mr K wouldnt have known at that time that Barclays would 
change its product range on 4 October 2022  and this isnt something the adviser would 
have known and been able to tell him. 
I think the timing of these events was unfortunate, and Im sorry that Mr K missed the chance 
to apply for a new product before Barclays changed its product range on 4 October 2022. 
But, as I said, Barclays didnt have to contact Mr K to tell him it had extended the switching 
window, or that it was about to change its product range. There were various ways for Mr K 
to contact Barclays to check when he could apply for a new rate, and it was unfortunate the 
person he tried to contact by email on 28 September 2022 was away. However, I dont think 
this makes it fair and reasonable to require Barclays to apply a lower interest rate to Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage. 
The rate switch for the residential mortgage
Barclays upheld Mr and Mrs Ks complaint about delays with a product switch in May 2022. It 
backdated the product rate and offered £225 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Barclays increased its offer of compensation to £325 as it says it 
mixed up Mr and Mrs Ks buy to let mortgage and residential mortgage in its response to 
their complaint. I think, in the circumstances, this is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My decision is that I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £325 to Mr and Mrs K, if it hasnt 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman