DRN-1161854
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs E are unhappy about how National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) dealt with 
issues related to the closure of their bank account.
What happened
In February 2019, NatWest wrote to Mr A and Mrs E. It said it had reviewed their bank 
account and gave them 60 days notice that it would be closing it. Mr A said that they didnt 
receive the letters. Mr A and Mrs E only found out the account had been closed when Mrs 
Es bank card was declined. They both went to a bank branch to find out why the card was 
declined and were told the account had been closed.
When NatWest closed the account, the overdraft still needed to be repaid. NatWest passed 
Mr A and Mrs Es details to a debt recovery agency, who acted on its behalf to recover the 
outstanding debt. Mr A was unhappy that, despite entering into an agreement about the debt 
via the agency, it still showed up on his credit file.
Mr A and Mrs E complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that NatWest had acted fairly and in line with its terms and conditions.
As Mr A and Mrs E did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first issue is that Mr A and Mrs E said they didnt receive a letter telling them that their 
account was being closed. I asked NatWest to explain how it sends letters. It said that the 
process for sending closure letters is system driven and they are sent via a central 
processing area. NatWest also provided me with copies of the individual letters sent to Mr A 
and to Mrs E in February 2019 and the address on both the letters was correct. On that 
basis, I am satisfied that NatWest sent letters to both Mr A and Mrs E to tell them that their 
account was being closed and that if these werent received, it was for reasons outside of 
NatWests control.
In those letters, Mr A and Mrs E were given 60 days notice of their account being closed. I 
have looked at the terms and conditions for the account and these say:
Closing your account

We can also close any other current account by giving you at least 60 days notice"
On that basis, Im satisfied that NatWests terms and conditions allowed it to close the 
account and that it gave Mr A and Mrs E the required notice before it did so.Mr A and Mrs E have also complained about a default showing on their credit files as a result 
of their account being closed. This related to a debt because the overdraft on the account 
still needed to be repaid. In the letter telling Mr A and Mrs E that their account would be 
closed it said:
You will need to make alternative payment arrangements because at the end of the 60 
days:
any overdraft facilities will be withdrawn

We formally demand repayment of any funds owed to the Bank at the end of 60 days from 
the date of this letter, failing which the Bank will follow its normal debt recovery procedures. 
Please note that unless satisfactory repayment is received within 60 days of this letter, 
performance of your account may be reported to  Credit Reference Agencies.
NatWest therefore gave Mr A and Mrs E notice that the debt needed to be repaid and by 
when and it told them that it would report the debt to credit reference agencies if it wasnt 
repaid by that time.
It is not in dispute that there was an outstanding overdraft at the end of the 60 day period. 
This was then passed on to a debt recovery agency to be recovered on NatWests behalf. Mr 
A said that he entered into an agreement with NatWest shortly after the account was closed, 
so doesnt think that the debt should have been reported to credit reference agencies.
NatWest has said that the account was closed in May 2019 and it didnt have any contact 
with Mr A until August 2019. Based on information that Mr A sent us, I think it is likely that it 
was actually the debt recovery agency that he spoke to in May, which was acting on 
NatWests behalf, rather than NatWest itself.
The guidance document Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and
Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies explains the basis on which banks must report data 
to credit reference agencies about its customers. This says that credit files must be fair, 
accurate, consistent, complete and up to date. The guidance also says a default may be 
recorded when an account is three months in arrears.
NatWest said that it automatically reports to the credit reference agencies to show the 
management of bank accounts. For Mr A and Mrs E, it said As part of the closure process, 
the overdraft facility was removed at the end of April therefore the account was in excess 
when reported in May, June and July. This is what showed on Mr A and Mrs Es credit file. It 
also showed that the default was registered at the end of August, which was more than three 
months after the bank account was closed. The credit file was then updated at the end of 
September to show that the debt had been cleared.
Having thought about all the above, Im satisfied that NatWest accurately reported the status 
of the bank account following its closure, that the default was reported at the appropriate 
time and that Mr A and Mrs Es credit file was promptly updated when the debt was cleared. 
Im aware that Mr A and Mrs E are unhappy that NatWest reported the outstanding money to 
the credit reference agencies, as they had entered into an agreement to repay the debt
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman