DRN-2050232
The complaint
Miss D is seeking to recover £75,000 from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC), which she lost 
from her account as a result of a third-party scam.
HSBC says it is not liable for the loss because Miss D unwittingly authorised the 
payment herself  and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to 
recoup the money from the receiving bank.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too much detail 
here. However, in summary, Miss D has been the victim of a scam. She was tricked into 
sending £75,000 to invest in a product that appeared to be offered by a legitimate company. 
She had wanted to invest funds from the proceeds of the sale of her and her late husbands 
property, so she searched online for this and was contacted by a financial advisor who 
persuaded her to invest through them. However, unbeknown to Miss D, she had actually 
been speaking with a scammer who was operating as a clone of the legitimate company. 
The scam came to light when HSBC were contacted by the receiving bank about concerns 
with the beneficiary account. 
Between 8  13 May 2019, Miss D made the following payments:
8 May 2019 - £10,000
9 May 2019 - £10,000
10 May 2019 - £25,000
12 May 2019 - £25,000
13 May 2019 - £5,000
Miss D made the payments herself online but feels HSBC should have done more to protect 
her from the scam. In particular she felt that HSBC shouldve asked more questions before 
processing the payments to the scammer. She also said that after the scam was uncovered 
she spoke with her bank manager at HSBC and showed them the correspondence she had 
with the scammer. She said the bank manager had told her the payments should be covered 
by the CRM code. After numerous calls and visits to the bank, she said she wasnt given any 
answers until she received a letter in which they declined to refund the scam payments and 
said the payments were not covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model code (CRM 
code) as they happened a few days before it came into effect. 
HSBC didnt agree that it could have done anything more to protect Miss D and so she 
brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They felt the transactions were unusual and out 
of character when compared to Miss Ds usual account activity. But even if HSBC had 
contacted Miss D to discuss the payments before they left her account, it was unlikely the 
scam wouldve come to light. They didnt think there was anything about the circumstances 
leading up to the payments that wouldve put HSBC on notice that Miss D mightve been at 
risk of financial harm. And they didnt think it wouldve become apparent to HSBC that Miss 
D was dealing with a cloned company. 
Miss D didnt agree with the investigators findings and so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have concluded that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the 
circumstances, will not be to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The CRM code is a voluntary code that HSBC signed up to that does relate to APP scams 
such as the kind Miss D was the victim of. Unfortunately, it came into effect on 28 May 
2019 and wasnt retrospective  so it doesnt apply in Miss Ds case, contrary to what she 
has said she was told by the bank manager. 
So in deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time  before the CRM code.
Im really very sorry to hear about whats happened to Miss D and I have a lot of sympathy 
for the situation she has found himself in. I can understand why she feels so strongly that his 
money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully about what shes told us 
happened at the time and HSBCs actions, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for 
me to hold HSBC liable for her loss.
So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Miss Ds complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for Miss D, but I dont think I can fairly say that 
HSBC should reimburse her with the money she has unfortunately lost to the scammers. 
Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. However, taking into account the law, 
regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among 
other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud 
and scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with 
than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have 
taken additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a 
payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Miss D when she transferred £75,000 to a fraudster and when they were 
contacted by the receiving bank and Miss D realised she had been the victim of a 
scam, or whether it should have done more than it did.
It is not in dispute that Miss D authorised the transfers herself. Because of this, HSBC 
had an obligation to follow her instructions. But there are some situations in which it 
should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the 
transfers - as Ive explained above. I consider that as a matter of good practice HSBC 
shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
So, Ive first thought about whether the initial transfer Miss D made could be considered 
out of character and unusual when compared with her usual account activity. And, 
having reviewed Miss Ds statements for the months leading up to the scam, it appears 
a payment of £10,000 wasnt unusual for Miss D and uncharacteristic for this particular 
account - there had been a comparable payment of £9440.16 the December before. 
But Miss D then went on to complete a further £10,000 the following day, followed by a 
£25,000 the day after that. So Im satisfied that the account activity did become unusual 
and uncharacteristic for her account  there had been no comparable series of 
legitimate payments in recent times. The transfers are significantly higher than those 
made from the account previously and they were being made to a new payee. And so, 
Im satisfied HSBC ought fairly and reasonably, and as a matter of good practice, to 
have done more here. I think it ought to have made enquiries about the purpose of and 
the circumstances leading up to the second or third payment before it processed it.
Because Im satisfied HSBC should have called Miss D to discuss the payments before it 
processed them, I have to consider whether any further intervention would have 
ultimately made a difference or not.  
It is impossible for me to say exactly how any conversation between Miss D and HSBC 
would have unfolded. And so, I must base my decision on what I think is most likely to 
have happened had HSBC intervened further. Ive done this by considering the usual 
types of questions I would have expected HSBC to ask Miss D had they contacted her  
alongside what Miss D has told us about the circumstances that led to her making the 
transfers. Having done so, I dont think further intervention from HSBC would have made 
a difference. Im persuaded its most likely the scam would not have been uncovered and 
Miss D would have still gone ahead with the payments regardless. Ill explain why. 
Had HSBC contacted Miss D, Im satisfied she would have told them she was making a 
payment to an investment company  Miss D believed she was making a payment to a 
legitimate company and would have had no reason to say anything else. Once aware 
that Miss D was planning to invest, there are some additional questions about the 
investment that I would have reasonably expected HSBC to ask. This would include 
whether Miss D had been cold-called, how she came across the company, whether 
shed completed any checks on the company, what she was investing in, what returns shed been promised to see if any of the answers sounded like they were in line with 
what the bank ought to have known about the way investment scams tend to be 
perpetrated. But overall, Im not persuaded Miss Ds answers to any of the above would 
have necessarily given HSBC reasonable cause for concern. 
Miss D has told us that she had been looking for an investment opportunity online when 
she spoke to the scammer. And so Im not persuaded that in this particular case, the 
contact from the scammer was wholly unusual or unexpected for Miss D. As the 
scammer had used details from a genuine regulated investment company, any checks 
completed on the FCA register or online would have simply verified that the firm she 
thought she was dealing with were legitimate. In addition to speaking with the scammers 
directly about the investments she was making, Miss D had been given persuasive 
information and documentation relating to the investments she was entering into. And 
the rate of return wasnt so wholly unrealistic that I think it wouldve given HSBC 
reasonable doubt about its authenticity. So, overall, Im satisfied Miss D was persuaded 
the company was genuine and I think it wouldve taken more than the bank making the 
type of enquiries Ive highlighted above to persuade her not to continue or alert her to the 
scam.
Ive also thought about whether anything else at this point ought to have alerted HSBC to the 
scam, but Im not persuaded it should have. The FCA wasnt aware of the fact the original 
investment company had been cloned and didnt place a warning on the register until the 
day after Miss D made her last transfer. And so there would have been no way for HSBC to 
have known that this is what had taken place either. And there was no other information or 
additional checks HSBC could have carried out at that time that would have given it 
reasonable cause to believe Miss D was the victim of a scam. HSBC would not have had the 
ability to check that the receiving account was in the name of the intended payee at the time, 
so would have had to rely purely on the sort code and account number provided. And so I 
dont think HSBC could have done more to uncover the scam in this particular case and I 
dont think it could have done more here to prevent the payments leaving Miss Ds account.
The recovery of funds
On 16 July 2019 HSBC were alerted to the scam by the receiving bank who had concerns 
about the beneficiary account. HSBC got in touch with Miss D and got her consent to speak 
with the receiving bank and notify them that she had been the victim of a scam. After 
numerous attempts to get in touch with the receiving bank again, they confirmed that only 
£1,911.05 remained in the beneficiary account. They notified Miss D of this on 20 December 
2019. In this case, the beneficiary account had notified HSBC of the scam and so would 
have been responsible for stopping any further funds leaving the account, so Im satisfied 
HSBC met its obligations here. But unfortunately, most of her funds had already been 
removed and so there was nothing more HSBC could do to trace the remaining funds. 
Summary
I want to stress here that I am very sorry to hear about the situation Miss D has found 
herself in but I dont think her loss was caused by any specific failing on behalf of HSBC 
and so I cant fairly ask HSBC to refund her. The fault, and loss, here lies with the 
fraudsters themselves.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman