DRN-3829739
The complaint
Mr P complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited declined his claim under sections 75 and 
140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) relating to his purchase of solar panels.
Mr P is represented in this case by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In January 2019 Mr P was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mr P decided to purchase the system and finance it through 
a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In August 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Ps behalf under sections 75 
and 140A of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr P to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
the solar system would not cost more than what could be recovered from the feed-in 
tariff (FIT) payments;
the system would not only make enough money to cover the cost of the loan but 
would actually make a profit;
the salesmans calculations about the performance of the system were false and had 
been made recklessly.
The CMC also alleged the following breaches of contract by P:
the terms of Ps quote were incorporated into the contract with Mr P, and as the 
returns have not achieved what was promised a breach of contract had occurred; 
and
the salesmans statement that Mr P would not suffer a loss by buying the solar 
system was a warranty which had been breached.
The CMC also alleged that an unfair relationship existed between Shawbrook and Mr P.
In a later letter, the CMC elaborated further on the reasons why it was alleging 
misrepresentation and an unfair relationship. These were:
P had used data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) to add credibility to its 
quote, but the figures used to calculate the benefits of the system over its lifetime did 
not match the ONS data on which P claimed it was based. The CMC said this was 
evidence that P was systematically and fraudulently inflating the figures to make the 
system and the voltage optimiser (an optional extra) appear more attractive to 
customers.
The voltage optimiser prediction was inaccurate, was not calculated using the 
consensus of independent reports available at the time of sale, and was beyond the 
range of reasonableness.
The personal allowance for electricity savings at 73% was a forecast not made with 
reasonable care and skill. The governments calculation for personal usage is 50%, 
and a fair quote would have used this figure.
The cost of credit was unaccountably omitted from the "Putting it all together" section 
of Ps quote and from the profit calculations.
Ps failure to communicate clear, accurate and balanced information about the 
benefits of having the system contravened the FCAs Principles of Business and the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
The system had failed to generate the savings P had predicted.
Being dissatisfied with Shawbrooks response, Mr P instructed the CMC to bring this 
complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr P, or that an unfair relationship had existed.
The CMC disagreed with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
She did not appear to have considered the specific Principles of Business and 
provisions of CONC on which the CMC had relied.
She had not considered whether an unfair relationship had existed (other than 
quoting section 140A of the Act).1
The CMC relies not on statements of fact made by the salesman, but only on implied 
representations.
Some of the tables in the quote do not include the cost of finance.
The quote is complex and difficult to understand.
Some other cases the CMC has dealt with also had incorrect ONS data in them.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read all of the submissions made by the CMC and by Shawbrook, and have taken all 
of these into account when making my decision. But the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
set up to be a quick and informal alternative to the courts. So I will not refer to every 
comment that has been made by the parties. Instead, my decision sets out what I think are 
the most important points in order to explain my decision in a way that is intended to be 
concise and clear.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act. Relevant 
rules made by the regulator include Principles 2, 7 and 9; the CMC also relies on certain 
provisions of CONC.
1 I disagree with this point; in her decision the adjudicator explained why she did not agree with the 
points the CMC had made in support of its contention that there was an unfair relationship. She then 
explicitly concluded that no unfair relationship had existed.Section 75 of the Act provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using 
credit. As Mr P paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr P could claim against Shawbrook 
(the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr P and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
alleged breaches of CONC and the Principles of Business by failing to provide relevant 
information in a clear and balanced way.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
In the FCAs Principles of Business, Principle 2 requires a firm to conduct its business with 
due care, skill and diligence. Principle 7 says a firm must pay due regard to the information 
needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and 
not misleading. Principle 9 says a firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability 
of its advice. The CMC argues that Ps quotation breached all of these principles.
CONC 1.2.2R(2) requires a firm which carries on credit-related regulated activities (such as 
entering into a consumer credit agreement as lender, as Shawbrook did) to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that other persons acting on its behalf comply with CONC. The CMC argues 
that Shawbrook failed to ensure that P complied with CONC, with the result that an unfair 
relationship arose between Shawbrook and Mr P.
CONC 2.5.3R(2) requires a firm to take reasonable steps to ensure that a product the firm 
recommends is not unsuitable for the customer. CONC 3.3.1R(1) requires a firm to ensure 
that a communication or a financial promotion is clear, fair, and not misleading. The CMC 
says that Ps quotation did not comply with these provisions.
CONC 2.5.3R(1) requires a firm to explain the key features of a regulated credit agreement 
to enable the customer to make an informed choice. CONC 4.2.5R(1) and (2) require a firm 
to provide a customer with an adequate explanation of various matters, including in 
particular the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would have 
a significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the customer is unlikely to 
foresee. (Here the agreement refers to the loan agreement, not the contract for the 
purchase of the system.) The CMC says that Ps quotation failed to adequately explain 
certain features of the loan agreement, for example by not including the cost of credit.
There is some overlap between each of these provisions, so rather than write about them all 
separately, I will consider whether P adequately and accurately explained the benefits and 
cost of the system (including the cost of finance) overall. I have however taken Ps and 
Shawbrooks obligations under these provisions into account when forming my opinion.
Documents
Shawbrook has provided the quote it says the installer provided to Mr P at the time of the 
sale, which is entitled Just for You: Your Personal Solar Quotation.The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr P, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract. He has signed it.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and I therefore accept that the salesman 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr Ps 
description of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
The cost of the system
The cash price was set out clearly in the quote and in the credit agreement as £9,920. 
However, the overall cost to Mr P was more than that, due to him paying for the system 
using an interest-bearing loan. This was shown clearly in the quote, where there is a table 
setting out the loan repayments over ten years. It says that Mr P will have to make 120 
monthly payments of £117.08. This information is repeated in the credit agreement, along 
with the total amount payable, £14,149.60. So I think it was made clear to Mr P how much 
he would have to pay.
Alleged misrepresentation: the system would not cost more than what could be recovered 
from the FIT
As mentioned above, I think Mr P would have understood that the price of the system was 
£9,920 but that overall, he would pay £14,149.60 due to the loan.
The quote includes a table setting out the estimated performance of the system over 25 
years. This included the estimated FIT generation and export payments each year and a 
total for each at the bottom. The FIT payments were only shown for 20 years, since this is 
how long a customer would receive FIT payments for.
The table showed the following totals for FIT payments over 25 years:
Generation Tariff: £2,236.10
Export Tariff: £1,545.92
The quote did not go on to show the total 25-year FIT payments of the generation and export 
tariffs added together. Nevertheless, I think it would have been clear that the total of these 
two amounts added together (about £3,800) was much less than the basic price (£9,920) 
and overall cost (£14,149.60) that Mr P had agreed to pay.
In light of this, I think it is unlikely that the salesman would have represented the cost of the 
system as being no more than the FIT income, when the quote showed that was not the 
case.
Alleged misrepresentation: the system would make a profit
The same table included figures for the estimated savings over a 25-year period. The total 
savings over that period were as follows:
Savings on energy bills: £15,755.20Voltage optimiser savings: £4,314.38
Grand total: £23,851.60
The total is more than the cash price of the system and also more than the total payable 
under the loan agreement. So I accept that Mr P was told that the overall benefits of the 
system over 25 years were estimated to exceed what he would pay for it overall.
So the question now is whether this was a misrepresentation that induced Mr P to purchase 
the system when he otherwise would not have done.
FIT payments
The quote and MCS certificate show the system was expected to generate 2,298 kWh of 
electricity each year. The FIT statements provided show that it has exceeded this estimate. 
So the system is performing as expected in terms of electricity generation.
The FIT payments are made based on the amount of electricity generated, with a certain unit 
rate paid per kWh of electricity generated. So, given the system has generated in line with 
what was expected, I have no reason to think the total FIT payments received are not (and 
would not continue to be) in line with what Mr P was told. So the FIT income was not 
misrepresented.
Savings
The solar panel and voltage optimiser savings will be made on what Mr P pays for electricity 
versus what he would have paid without the system. So this would not be money paid to 
him, but rather money he will have that he otherwise would have paid to his energy supplier. 
The savings are discussed further below.
Solar panel savings and the self-consumption rate
To calculate the savings from the solar panels, P used a self-consumption rate of 73%. Self-
consumption rate is the proportion of electricity generated by the solar panels that P 
assumed that Mr P could use himself, rather than exporting it to the grid. My understanding 
is that P tailored the self-consumption rate based on what it knew about the customer and 
how he used electricity, and then referring to tables compiled by an industry body (the 
Microgeneration Certification Scheme, or MCS).
For example, since solar power would be generated in daylight hours, a person that is 
usually home during the daytime is able to use more of the power generated than someone 
who only tends to be home during the evenings.
The CMC has argued that P should have used the industry standard self-consumption rate 
of 50% when calculating the savings. But I dont think it was unreasonable for P to tailor the 
self-consumption rate based on the information available to it, using the variable rate 
published by MCS. And I have not seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that the self-
consumption rate used by P was unreasonable in this instance (bearing in mind information 
available to it at the time of sale). Im aware that P has used lower self-consumption rates on 
other quotes that I have seen  which reinforces its claim that it was tailoring it to each 
customer.
I think that the electricity savings from the solar panels were based on reasonable 
assumptions about the amount of electricity generated by the system and the self-
consumption rate. So I dont think those savings estimates were a misrepresentation.That remains the case even if the savings have not in fact been as high as estimated. The 
savings will be dependent upon how electricity is used in the home and that is beyond Ps 
control. The quote included the following clarification in the section about electricity bill 
savings  These figures could go up or down based on your own lifestyle. So, I dont think 
the estimated savings were presented as being guaranteed.
Voltage optimiser
The CMC has suggested the estimated voltage optimiser savings were too high, given 
various reports that were available at the time. However, I understand that Ps method of 
calculating the savings was approved by MCS, so I am not persuaded that it was 
unreasonable.
How P calculated the savings was also explained in the quote, with reference to a specific 
report that informed its method of calculation. Overall, I think there were a number of reports 
which found that voltage optimisers could provide various levels of benefit. Considering 
those reports, I think that Ps estimated voltage optimiser savings in this case are not outside 
of a reasonable range.
One report mentioned by the CMC said that the benefits of voltage optimisers would reduce 
over time. So the CMC argued that savings from the voltage optimiser should have reduced 
rather than increased as shown in the quote. But it appears to me that P estimated the 
benefit of the voltage optimiser based on what it knew about the product it was selling, 
Mr Ps home and how he used electricity. I am not persuaded that Ps estimate of the benefit 
of the voltage optimiser was unreasonable. And Im not persuaded that the benefit of the 
voltage optimiser should have been estimated to reduce each year, rather than increase with 
inflation.
Summary of findings regarding savings
Overall, I think the underlying assumptions used to calculate the savings were reasonable. 
As such I dont think those figures constitute a misrepresentation.
Alleged misrepresentation: ONS data
I have checked the inflation figures used by P in this case to see if there was an error. I can 
see that the figures used do match the average inflation figures for the ten-year period stated 
on the quote. And the RPI inflation rate used exactly matches ONS data for the stated time 
period. So, on that there was no error.
I dont think how P calculated the predicted annual inflation of the FIT payments or energy 
savings was unreasonable. It was based on 13 years of historical inflation data from a 
reputable source (albeit P may have made an error in its calculation that did not adversely 
affect Mr P). P explained in the quote how it had reached these figures and indicated that the 
actual inflation rates could be higher or lower. So, I dont think there was a  
misrepresentation due to the inflation figures used to illustrate the potential benefits of the 
system.
I also think that the quote did make clear that other outcomes were possible, since it 
included graphs based on inflation being 0% throughout, and half the rate it used in the other 
tables. It also stated in the section about the ONS that, In reality the return may be higher or 
lower depending on the actual growth.Alleged breach of contract: the promised returns have not been achieved
The quotation stated the following:
"The performance of solar systems is impossible to predict with certainty due to the 
variability in the amount of solar radiation (sunlight) from location to location and from 
month to month."
The savings are based on case studies and your existing bills, these figures could 
go up or down.
Overall, Im not persuaded that the estimated benefits over 25 years formed a contractual 
term. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect estimates to be accurate over such a 
long period given the potential fluctuations in energy prices and the Retail Price Index.
P did guarantee the benefits derived from the electricity generated in the first year but, as 
mentioned above, Mr Ps system has been generating electricity as set out in the quote.
I think that estimates should be based on reasonable assumptions. And Ive discussed 
above that I think they were. Where the assumptions were reasonable, but the reality hasnt 
matched those assumptions, I dont think that is a breach of contract.
Alleged breach of contract: Mr P would not suffer a loss
As set out in the quote, the financial benefits of the system will increase over time due to 
inflation increasing the FIT and electricity unit rates. While the actual inflation rates over 
future years cannot be known, Im satisfied that over the lifetime of the system the benefits 
will likely exceed what Mr P paid for it. That is, in time I think it is likely that the system will be 
self-funding.
So, while I dont think a warranty was created in the way suggested by the CMC, I also do 
not think that Mr P will overall suffer a loss due to the purchase.
Alleged breach of contract: system not of satisfactory quality etc.
The CMC has said that the system did not operate as described and was not of satisfactory 
quality, because the benefits have not matched the estimates in the quote. For the same 
reason, it also asks me to infer that the installation was not carried out with reasonable care 
and skill.
I have explained above that the estimated benefits shown in the quote were based on 
reasonable assumptions and set out the main reasons why I dont think the system was 
misrepresented. I do not think that the system producing lower benefits constitutes a breach 
of contract where that is due to FIT and energy unit rates not increasing as much as 
expected, or Mr P not using as much electricity from the solar panels as predicted by P at 
the time of sale.
Complexity of the quote
I have not found that the system was misrepresented to Mr P. While the quote is a long 
document with a lot of information in it, there are graphs and tables, some of which I have 
mentioned above, which I do not think were complex or difficult to understand. Im also 
satisfied that the salesman talked through the quote with Mr P in an attempt to avoid any 
misunderstandings and allow him to ask questions if he was unsure.Unfair relationship
As I have said, I think the estimated benefits were based on reasonable assumptions, and 
the quote included clarifications that these were estimates and not guaranteed returns.
The Your Savings Summary table would have been clearer if the table had included the 
cost of credit. However, I must consider the relationship as a whole, not just one table in one 
of the documents that were provided at the time of sale. Also, this table specifically stated in 
two places that the finance charge was not included.
Having considered the documents as a whole, Im satisfied that Mr P knew what he was 
paying for the system, including the cost of credit. This was shown on the credit agreement, 
as well as elsewhere in the quote (the Your Agreement table incorporated the cost of credit 
into its illustration of the benefits of the system). So Mr P could compare this to the estimated 
benefits, which it appears he did in deciding to buy the system. And the Your Agreement 
table showed the annual benefit would not exceed the annual loan repayments within the 
period of the loan.
I have not seen evidence that persuades me that P sold the system in a way that was not 
fair or clear, or in a way that was misleading. I think the information provided to Mr P before 
he agreed to the purchase showed the cost and expected benefits of the system. The 
expected benefits were set out over 25 years, with plain warnings that those benefits were 
not guaranteed. I think it is likely that this was discussed with Mr P before he
agreed to the purchase.
So I do not think an unfair relationship was created between Shawbrook and Mr P as a result 
of Ps actions when selling the system to them.
Conclusion
In summary, my findings are that:
there was no misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of P. As such, 
I dont think Shawbrook would have any liability under section 75 of the Act; and
I do not think that there was an unfair relationship between Shawbrook and Mr P due 
to the way P sold the system to him. Accordingly, Shawbrook would have no liability 
under section 140A of the Act.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman