DRN-2531331
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him a fee-paying 
Graduate Additions bank account. 
Mr O says that he was led to believe that upgrading his account to a Graduate Additions 
account was the only way he could get an overdraft.
What happened
Mr Os account history is as follows:
Opened as a fee-free Higher Education account in March 2002
Changed to a fee-paying* Student Additions account in September 2004
Changed to a fee-free Higher Education account in September 2005
Upgraded to a fee-paying Graduate Additions account in September 2006
Downgraded to a fee-free Barclays account in January 2015
*although this account usually incurs a monthly fee, Mr O was not charged the monthly fee 
for this account during the time he held it.
Our adjudicators assessed Mr Os complaint and they didnt think that the Graduate 
Additions account had been mis-sold. Mr O disagreed so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this case.
Ive started off by considering whether Mr O was given a fair choice. Mr O has said that he 
was led to believe that taking out a fee-paying Graduate Additions account was his only way 
of obtaining an overdraft. He has said he felt pressured into agreeing to it.
Looking through Mr Os account history, I can see that Mr O already had an overdraft limit of 
£800 since January 2004. So Mr O had an arranged overdraft on his account for quite some 
time before the fee-paying Graduate Additions account was sold to him, including when he 
held a fee-free Higher Education account. I cant see that the arranged overdraft limit 
changed when Mr O took out the Graduate Additions account. So I think it was more likely 
than not that Mr O was aware at the time that he did not need to have the Graduate 
Additions account to have an overdraft on his account. So overall, I think Mr O agreed to the 
account knowing it was optional and that he didnt have to have it, if he did not want it.
Based on what both parties have provided, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr Os 
circumstances were reviewed or that the account was recommended on the basis that the 
insurance benefits it included would meet Mr Os needs. So I think the account was sold on 
a non-advised basis. This means that Barclays didnt have to check whether the account 
was right for Mr O, but it still had to provide Mr O with the important information about the 
account so that he was able to decide for himself whether it was worth getting.
Prior to the sale of the Graduate Additions account, Mr O held a fee-free Higher Education 
account. Based on what I know about this account, accountholders were only provided with 
an interest free overdraft facility for 2 years, after which I understand that the account would 
be migrated to a standard current account, whereby a standard rate of interest would be 
applied to the overdraft.  
Conversely, at the time, the Graduate Additions account cost £5 a month, but offered an 
interest-free overdraft benefit of up to £3,000 in the first year of graduation, with lower rates 
of interest (compared to a Higher Education and standard current account) on any arranged 
limit above this amount. This interest free overdraft benefit then reduced to a maximum of 
£2,000, and then £1,000 and then £500 in the subsequent years, and then remained at £200 
in the 5th year after graduation and thereafter. 
Looking at Mr Os circumstances at the time, it seems that one of the reasons why he 
mayve taken out the Graduate Additions account was that by having it, he was able to retain 
an interest-free overdraft for much longer than if he stayed with the fee-free Higher 
Education account. And by having the account, the rate of interest charged on any amount 
over the interest free amount, was also much less than what wouldve been charged on the 
alternative fee-free accounts that were available to him at the time. 
I have looked through Mr Os statements and can see that both prior to, and after the sale of 
the Graduate Additions account, it remained overdrawn for almost the entire duration that Mr 
O had the account. This suggests that having an overdraft was important to Mr O. And given 
the extent to which Mr O was using his overdraft, I also think that being able to use the 
overdraft without incurring interest, or at least keeping the costs of borrowing down on an 
ongoing basis, wouldve been important to Mr O too.
So based on everything I have seen, I think its more likely that Mr O agreed to the Graduate 
Additions account because he was told about, and attracted to, the overdraft benefits it 
provided - rather than because he thought it was his only option to have an overdraft.
I note that Mr O has said that he had no need or interest in the insurance benefits the 
account provided. And that he feels that he should get a refund of the account fee as he 
didnt need most of the benefits it provided. However, the Graduate Additions account was 
sold as a package, so Mr O was unable to pick and choose what it came with. So in the 
circumstances, it was essentially up to Mr O to decide whether the overdraft benefit it 
provided was worth paying for, knowing that he didnt need the other benefits it came with. I 
appreciate that, as Mr O held the account for a number of years, he may now feel with the 
benefit of hindsight that it has been poor value for money. But that in itself doesnt mean that 
it was mis-sold or that Barclays are at fault for selling him the account in the first place.
I accept that Mr O might not have been given all of the information about the account when it 
was sold to him. But given that I think he agreed to it largely for the banking benefits it 
provided, I find it unlikely that he wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had he been 
given more information about the account and the associated benefits.
So taking everything into account, I cant reasonably conclude that the Graduate Additions 
account was mis-sold. I understand that Mr O may be dissatisfied with my decision, but I 
hope I have been able to explain the reasons why I have reached this outcome on this 
complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman