DRN-4087009
The complaint
Miss W has complained that Care By Volvo Car UK Limited has treated her poorly, after she 
experienced issues with a car she has under a finance agreement. To put things right, shed 
like to cancel her agreement, with no penalties or fees.
What happened
Miss W entered into a hire agreement for a car in September 2022. In January 2023, she 
contacted Care by Volvo when she saw there was a bulge in both offside tyres. 
Care By Volvo said it wouldnt cover the cost of replacement tyres, as it thought there had 
been impact damage, most probably from a pothole  which isnt covered under the 
agreement.
However, Care By Volvo did offer Miss W a £50 voucher, and said it would send the tyres to 
the manufacturer to be inspected.
Miss W was unhappy with this, so brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. He didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. This was because he considered returning the tyres to the manufacturer to be a fair 
way of determining the likely cause of the damage  and who should pay for the new tyres. 
Miss W disagreed. In summary, she said that now theres a problem with the car, Care By 
Volvo is very hands-off. She feels it was a potential safety issue, and she was left to sort it 
out on her own. She also thinks its unfair to refer to potholes, as the roads are particularly 
awful, and the car is a 4x4, so should cope with bad terrain.
The complaints now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where I dont refer to any particular point, it isnt because I havent considered it. Rather, its 
because I dont think I need to discuss it in order to reach a fair outcome. This isnt intended 
as a discourtesy to either party, but instead reflects the informal nature of our service.
Having taken everything into account, Im not upholding this complaint. Like the investigator, 
I think the solution offered by Care By Volvo is fair. It would determine who should bear the 
cost of the replacement tyres. And, just because a car is a 4x4, it doesnt mean tyres will 
never suffer impact damage. Theres nothing to suggest the car is unsafe, and I dont think 
Care By Volvo has shown disregard for Miss W. I think its offered reasonable assistance 
and behaved fairly.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman