DRN-3163054
The complaint
Mr D and Miss M say Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, lent to 
them irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr D and Miss M took out a joint loan from ELL on 15 June 2020 for £4,500 over 48 months. 
The monthly repayment was £232.92 and the total repayable was £11,181.12. 
Mr D and Miss M say the loan was not affordable and ELLs checks were not thorough 
enough.
The adjudicator upheld Mr D and Miss Ms complaint. She found the lenders checks for 
were proportionate, but that ELL did not make a fair lending decision based on the 
information it gathered. It could see Miss M was already struggling financially, and both 
parties would be left with insufficient disposable income for the loan to be sustainably 
affordable.
ELL disagreed. It said this was a joint loan and the assessment should not be based on what 
Miss Ms bank statements showed. It resubmitted a form showing Mr D and Miss M 
confirmed they didnt know of any reason that would mean they couldnt sustain the 
repayments over the term of the loan.
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when ELL lent to Mr D and Miss M. 
Its rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged ELL to 
lend responsibly. Amongst other things, ELL was required to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether Mr D and Miss M could afford to repay what they owed 
in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr D and Miss M. In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the 
likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments 
on Mr D and Miss M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to
make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Mr D and Miss M, and have considered the following questions:
did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr D and 
Miss Ms loan application to satisfy itself that they would be able to repay the loan in 
a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did ELL make a fair lending decision?
did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
ELL asked for some information from Mr D and Miss M before it approved the loan. It asked 
for details of their income and estimated their monthly costs using national statistics. It asked 
for copies of their bank statements and payslips to verify some of this information. It 
reviewed their credit file to understand their credit history and existing commitments. It also 
asked about the purpose of the loan which was for debt consolidation. From these checks 
combined ELL concluded that Mr D and Miss M would have monthly disposable income of 
£161.22 after taking on this loan and so could afford it.
I agree with the adjudicator that the checks ELL completed were proportionate, but I dont
think it reacted appropriately to the data it gathered when it made its lending decision. Ill
explain why.
ELLs affordability assessment showed Mr D and Miss M would be left with just £80.61 
monthly disposable income each, taking into account the debts they were settling. This loan 
was over a four-year term and I dont think it was reasonable to leave them with that amount 
of money to cover all unplanned and seasonal cost for such a considerable period of time. I 
think ELL, as a responsible lender, ought to have realised this meant there was a significant 
risk the loan would not be sustainably affordable. 
In response to the adjudicators assessment ELL said Mr D and Miss M signed confirming 
they were not aware of anything that would make them unable to sustain payments. I can 
see this is this case, but them doing so does not change ELLs obligation to reach a fair 
lending decision that considers the borrower(s) and not just the likelihood of it getting its 
money back. It could see Miss M was already struggling financially  she had used payday loans in the 
two months prior, there were returned direct debits on her bank statements, she was 
overdrawn each month, typically a week after her payday, and a credit card she opened in 
November 2019 was already in arrears and over its limit. ELL argues the lending decision 
should not be based Miss Ms bank account transactions  but it was required to consider 
the creditworthiness of both applicants, and I dont think it responded appropriately to the 
clear indicators that Miss M was already having problems managing her money.
It follows, for the reasons set out above, I dont think ELL should have given a joint loan to 
Mr D and Miss M.
I havent seen any evidence that ELL acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way 
towards Mr D and Miss M. 
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr D and Miss M to repay the capital amount that they borrowed as they 
had the benefit of that money. But they have paid interest and charges on a loan that 
shouldnt have been given to them. So they have lost out and ELL needs to put things right.
It should:
Refund all the interest and charges on the loan  so add up the total Mr D and 
Miss M repaid and deduct the sum from the capital amount.
If reworking Mr D and Miss Ms loan account results in them having effectively made 
payments above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr D and Miss Ms loan account results in an outstanding capital 
balance, ELL should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr D and 
Miss M.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr D and Miss Ms credit files in 
relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr D and 
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr D and Miss Ms complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as 
Everyday Loans, must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman