DRN-3804418
The complaint
This complaint has been brought on behalf of the estate of Miss C by the personal 
representatives. Miss C had a mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC. Mr C (one of the 
personal representatives) has dealt with the complaint. He says Barclays has been unfair 
when trying to recover the mortgage debt.
What happened
Miss C died in 2014. The court granted probate in May 2015 and appointed Mr C and one 
other person as personal representatives. The property has been let out and the mortgage 
balance remains outstanding. Mr C says Barclays acted unfairly when asking for the balance 
to be repaid and starting recovery action. He says Barclays failed to respond to his attempts 
to resolve the matter.
Our investigator said Barclays was entitled to ask for the debt to be repaid. He said it hadnt 
acted unfairly given how long the debt had been outstanding and the property was being let 
without consent.  
Mr C didnt agree saying:
The core issue of his complaint is the poor administration of the mortgage account by 
Barclays and its failure to keep accurate and up to date records.
Barclays failed to refer the matter to its lending panel leaving the matter in limbo for three 
years. He wasnt given the opportunity to discuss the matter directly with the decision 
maker. He says Barclays conduct has prevented his attempts to resolve the matter.
Barclays is taking recovery action to evade criticism of its conduct. It failed to respond to 
his offers of settlement.
Barclays  and our investigator  failed to take the nuanced and complex history into 
account. He said the beneficiaries will be able to refinance the mortgage in mid-2023.
Barclays hasnt suffered a loss and its loan isnt at risk. He said Barclays benefitted from 
its own delays and his investment to develop the property as the loan to value ratio has 
improved. Mr C said the tenants have been asked to vacate the property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first explain that my role is to reach a decision about whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Im required to explain why I reach my decision. But I 
dont have to respond to each point made by Mr C.
Miss C died in mid-2014. The court granted probate in May 2015 and appointed Mr C and 
one other person as personal representatives. 
When Miss C died the mortgage loan, which was in her name, became payable by the 
estate. Barclays says it allows executors 12 months to repay a mortgage. It wrote to Mr C in 
late 2015 asking for the debt to be repaid.  
Mr C wanted Barclays to agree a bespoke arrangement in respect of the account. He 
wanted Barclays to agree the loan neednt be repaid until the beneficiaries reach the age 
specified in Miss Cs will (about 10 years from 2014). Mr C says at this point the 
beneficiaries will be able to take out a mortgage to repay the Barclays mortgage. 
Mr C says he was told any decision about a bespoke arrangement would have to be made 
by Barclays lending panel. Barclays declined to refer the matter to the lending panel. I 
appreciate Mr Cs frustration. But, ultimately, its for Barclays to decide what the criteria are 
for a referral to its lending panel.
From what Mr C has said, theres enough equity in the property for the loan to be repaid in 
full if the property is sold. The property is let out, so Barclays doesnt have to take into 
account any concerns about the beneficiaries (or Mr C) losing their home if the property is 
sold. Mr C says Barclays and its solicitors didnt respond to his offers of settlement. Given 
that the loan can be repaid from the sale of the property, I dont think Barclays had fairly to 
agree to accept less than the amount owed or to extend the time to repay the loan. I dont 
know if there are options for the mortgage to be repaid without the sale of the property. Mr C 
could consider seeking independent financial advice.
Mr C says there were delays in resolving this matter due to poor administration by Barclays. 
I cant see that the personal representatives were prevented from repaying the mortgage, by 
selling the property or other means. It seems to me that Mr Cs complaint here is that 
Barclays didnt agree to what he wanted, to refer the matter to its lending panel or respond to 
his attempts to negotiate a settlement. But, as I said, I dont think it had to do so. Even if 
there was confusion about whether Barclays might consider a bespoke arrangement and 
that delayed the personal representatives taking steps to repay the debt, I cant see that this 
caused detriment to the estate of Miss C. 
Mr C says Barclays benefitted from the delays, as the equity in the property has increased. I 
think its the estate of Miss C that will benefit from any increase in equity. And the estate 
benefitted from the rental income in the meantime. If the personal representatives were 
concerned about delays in resolving the matter (settling the debt) they could have sold the 
property or looked for another way to repay the mortgage.
As Mr C says, it would be better to avoid litigation which is likely to mean costs added to the 
mortgage debt. Barclays has been clear that it expects the debt to be repaid. I think its fair 
for Barclays to ask for the debt to be repaid. And given that the debt has been outstanding 
since 2014 I dont think its unfair for Barclays to start recovery action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of 
Miss C to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman