DRN-2703857
The complaint
Mr P complains about charges made by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) when he returned his hire vehicle. 
  
What happened
Mr P entered into a hire agreement for a new vehicle with MBFS on 10 March 2017. The 
agreement ran for three years, and the vehicle was returned at the end of the agreement 
period, with a slight delay due to restrictions as a result of Covid-19. 
Collection agents collected and inspected the car for MBFS on 1 June 2020. The report 
notes a number of items of damage that are outside of fair wear and tear and indicates that 
the charge to Mr P for these items will be £690. The report also notes that the car is too dirty 
to properly assess, and a second inspection is required. 
The collection agents took the car to their compound where it was cleaned and inspected 
again on 12 June 2020. This report notes additional areas of damage outside of fair wear 
and tear and indicates that the charge to Mr P for all items will be £1,320. 
Mr P complained to MBFS about the damage charges. He said that there was a possibility 
that some of the damage was caused when the car was recovered by the collection agents. 
And the photos are poor quality so hes unable to properly review what hes being asked to 
pay for. Mr P was also unhappy with the excess mileage charge that MBFS told him hed 
need to pay, he says he only travelled over the agreed mileage because MBFS were unable 
to collect his vehicle at the end of the period due to Covid-19 restrictions. 
MBFS responded to Mr Ps complaint to say that the damage charges wouldnt be reversed. 
They also told Mr P that although hed driven extra mileage because he had to keep the car 
owing to the restrictions in place, the charges for this extra mileage were the same as if the 
agreement had been extended, or if a new agreement had been put in place. 
Unhappy with this, Mr P brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mr P. He thought that most of the damage was visible in the photos provided by 
MBFS and was chargeable. He agreed with MBFS to remove one of the dents from the 
charges. Our investigator thought that it was more likely that the damage had occurred whilst 
the vehicle was in Mr Ps possession, than in the time that it had been with the collection 
agents. 
Mr P remains unhappy with the charges. He says that there is no evidence that the damage 
found in the second inspection didnt occur during the recovery of the car by the collection 
agents, and the photos are poor quality. Mr P is also unhappy with the excess mileage 
charge as he had to keep the vehicle for longer as a result of the collection agents being 
closed during the pandemic. So, the case was passed to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2021 recommending that it was 
upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
Damage charges
Mr P signed a hire agreement in March 2017. The terms of the agreement set out that the 
vehicle must be returned at the end of the agreement in line with the vehicle return 
standards. It confirms that an inspection will be carried out by trained technicians at a 
nominated compound. The agreement goes on to set out the acceptable return standards, 
beyond which it allows MBFS to charge for the costs of either repairing and / or refurbishing 
the vehicle, or the cost of the consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle. 
Its clear from the agreement that Mr P was responsible for returning the car in good 
condition, but the question is whether all the charges applied by MBFS are fair and 
reasonable. 
Along with the vehicle return standards set out in the agreement, there are industry standard 
guidelines published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) which 
set out what is considered to be fair wear and tear in respect of a hired vehicle. So, I have 
also considered these in deciding what it is fair for MBFS to charge on return of the car.
The damage that MBFS say is outside of fair wear and tear, and therefore payable by Mr P, 
after the second inspection is as follows: 
Left hand front wheel scuffed
Right hand front wheel scuffed
Right hand rear door scratched
Rear bumper scratched
Left hand front wing dented
Left hand rear quarter panel dented
Right hand rear quarter panel dented
MBFS agreed with our investigator to remove the charge for the left hand rear quarter panel, 
as they couldnt clearly see a dent in the photos provided, so Ive considered the remaining 
damage charges, and whether they are fair and reasonable. 
Wheel Scuffs
In respect of alloy wheels, the hire agreement says that any scuff chip or scratch under 
25mm is acceptable. The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that scuffs up to 50mm 
on the total circumference of the alloy wheel is acceptable. 
Ive reviewed the photos provided by MBFS of the damage to the two wheels, and Im 
satisfied that they clearly show scuffs to the alloy over 50mm. So, Im satisfied that the 
charge for repair of these has been fairly applied. 
Scratches
In respect of paintwork and scratches, the hire agreement says that any light surface 
scratches not through the top coat which can be removed by polishing / touch up are 
acceptable. The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that surface scratches of 25mm or 
less where the primer or bare metal is not showing, provided they can be polished out, are 
acceptable. 
Ive reviewed the photos provided by MBFS of the scratch to the door and the scratch to the 
bumper. Im satisfied that its clear from the photos that both areas are individually over 
25mm, and both show the primer. So, Im satisfied that the charge for repair of these has 
been fairly applied. Dents
In respect of dents, the hire agreement says that minor body dents are acceptable, provided 
they are less than 13mm in diameter and there are no more than four per vehicle. The 
BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that dents of 15mm or less in diameter are 
acceptable provided there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not 
broken. 
Ive reviewed the photos provided by MBFS of the two remaining dents that they are 
charging for. As with the other photos, they are not sufficiently measured for me to be able to 
determine the length or depth of the damage. But, unlike the wheel scuffs and the scratches, 
the damage is not immediately evident to me in the photos, so I cant be satisfied that it is 
outside of the fair wear and tear standards of either the agreement, or the BVRLA 
guidelines. 
Ive spoken to MBFS about the dents, and I havent seen any persuasive evidence that 
these charges have been fairly and reasonably applied. Therefore, I find that these should 
be removed from the damage charges that Mr P is being asked to pay. 
Mr P has said that the photos are of poor quality. Whilst I agree that the areas of damage 
could have been better photographed and measured to make them easier to see, I think the 
damage that I agree MBFS can charge for is clear in the photos. 
Mr P is unhappy that extra damage was found when the car was recovered by the collection 
agents. He says theres no evidence that this wasnt caused when they recovered or stored 
the car. 
The first inspection competed by the collection agents notes that the car requires a second 
inspection because it isnt clean. Im satisfied from the photos that Ive seen that this is the 
case. The BVRLA guidelines say that a vehicle should be returned clean, as faults can be 
masked by dirt. So, I dont think its unreasonable that the car was cleaned and inspected for 
a second time. 
There is some debate about when the extra damage found in the second inspection might 
have occurred. But the damage that Ive said MBFS can fairly charge for, namely the two 
scuffed wheels and the two scratches, were noted on both inspections. So, Im satisfied that 
these occurred whilst the vehicle was in Mr Ps possession, therefore I havent considered 
this further. 
In summary, I find that MBFS have fairly applied charges for two scuffed alloy wheels, the 
scratched door and the scratched bumper. It should remove all charges for dents from the 
end of contract damage charges, as these havent been fairly applied. 
The outstanding damage charge amount Mr P will need to pay is £620. Broken down as 
follows: 
Left hand front wheel scuffed £115.00
Right hand front wheel scuffed £85.00
Right hand rear door scratched £210.00
Rear bumper scratched £210.00
Excess mileage charges
Mr P was due to return his vehicle under the hire agreement on 10 March 2020. MBFS say that the collection agents contacted Mr P in February and he was unsure at the time if he 
might extend the agreement past its original end date. A collection was booked for 7 March 
2020, which was then rescheduled by Mr P to 26 March 2020. 
Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the collection agents were closed, and they were unable 
to collect Mr Ps vehicle until 1 June 2020. 
So, Mr P had the vehicle almost three months longer than the original agreed hire period. He 
says that because of this delay, he had driven more than the 30,000 miles the hire 
agreement allowed him to drive. 
Mr P had driven a total of 32,175 miles at the time that the vehicle was returned. MBFS have 
charged him £156.60 in excess mileage charges, which is 6p per mile plus 20% VAT for the 
additional 2,175 miles. 
The hire agreement includes an excess mileage clause, which confirms that if Mr P has 
driven over the agreed 30,000 miles when the vehicle is returned, he will be charged at 6p 
per mile plus 20% VAT. So, Im satisfied that the agreement allows MBFS to charge for the 
excess mileage, and that they have calculated this charge in line with the terms of the 
agreement. 
Mr P was unable to return his vehicle to MBFS, and its only for this reason that hes 
exceeded the mileage allowance of the agreement. Whilst I appreciate that the car couldnt 
be collected when Mr P wanted, he was under no obligation to continue to use the car and 
increase the mileage. So, I think its fair that as Mr P has continued to use and benefit from 
the vehicle, that he pays a fair usage for it.
Mr Ps monthly rental payments were £383.26, and hes benefitted from almost three months 
of additional use of the vehicle where he hasnt had to pay this monthly sum. So, on balance, 
I think the charge of £156.60 is fair and reasonable for the extra time that Mr P was able to 
use the vehicle. 
I invited both parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final 
decision. Neither side replied.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither side responded with anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
my decision from that outlined above.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance to remove the dents from the end of 
contract charges. This leaves a bill of £776.60 for Mr P to pay for damage and excess 
mileage charges.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman