DRN-3818585
The complaint
Ms R, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out
sufficient affordability checks before it granted her loans. Had it done so, Morses wouldve 
realised Ms R couldnt afford them.
What happened
Ms R was advanced four home collected loans between December 2018 and
November 2020. Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in 
the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 21/12/2018 11/06/2019 33 £10.00
gap in lending
2 £500.00 13/11/2019 15/06/2020 34 £25.00
3 £100.00 09/09/2020 13/11/2020 22 £7.00
4 £700.00 18/11/2020 15/10/2021 53 £24.50
Following Ms Rs complaint, Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt
going to uphold it. Ms Rs representative, then referred the complaint to the
Financial Ombudsman Service.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. She thought Morses had made a reasonable
decision to provide loans 1 - 3 and so she didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint about these loans.
But she thought loan 4 should be upheld because the lending had become harmful for her.
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached about loan four. Ive
summarised its comments below;
There were breaks in borrowing between most of the lending.
All of the loans were settled early.
There is no evidence Ms R was struggling to make her repayments.
While loan 4 was Ms Rs largest loan, it was over the longest term meaning her
weekly commitments hadnt increased.
Adequate checks were completed before each loan was approved.
Ms Rs representative confirmed Ms R was happy with the proposed outcome.
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. 
I then issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not 
uphold Ms Rs complaint based on the evidence I had at the time. A copy of the provisional 
findings follows this in a smaller font and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms R could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and
Ms Rs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms R. These factors include:
Ms R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms R.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms R could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms R was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Rs complaint.
Neither Morses nor Ms R (or her representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the
adjudicator reached about loans 1 - 3. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute
and so I say no more about them. But I have kept them in mind when thinking about the
overall lending relationship.
Loan 4
The adjudicator upheld the loan because in her view the lending was now harmful for
Ms R.
I accept, that Ms R had been indebted with Morses for around 23 months (before loan 4 was
advanced)  and she was further committing to be indebted for an additional 53 weeks. This,
in some situations, could be a sign that she was now reliant on the borrowing or at the very
least having longer term money management problems.
However, the lending wasnt consecutive, and she didnt ever have more than one loanrunning at any one time. There was also no evidence of repayment problems, indeed, as
Morses has pointed out the previous three loans had all been repaid early.
So, taking everything together, I dont think Morses wouldve or ought to have realised the
loan was unsustainable for Ms R and so I am intending to conclude the loan wasnt likely to
be so harmful that it wouldve prompted Morses to have stopped lending to her. But that
doesnt mean Morses did all it shouldve done before advancing the loan.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. I do think the time in
debt, the increasing capital value of the loan and increased term ought to have alerted
Morses to the possibility that Ms R may have been reliant on this type of credit.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Ms R declared to it
about her income and expenditure even though this information suggested Ms R could
afford these loan repayments. Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of
Ms Rs actual financial position to ensure the loan was affordable. This couldve been done
in several ways, such as asking for evidence of her outgoings, or looking at bank statements
and/or Ms Rs full credit file.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Ms Rs financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loan, I have to be
satisfied that had Morses carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it wouldve
likely discovered that Ms R couldnt afford it.
Ms Rs representative hasnt provided a copy of her credit file or her bank statements
covering the period leading up to loan being advanced. Without anything further, I cant be
sure, what Morses may have seen had it carried out better checks. So, I cant fairly uphold
the complaint about this loan.
Although Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks, Im not able to conclude that further
checks wouldve led it to conclude that loan 4 shouldnt have been granted.
So, Im intending to not uphold Ms Rs complaint about the loan.
Response to the provisional decision 
Both Ms R and Morses were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon as 
possible, but no later than 21 November 2022. 
Morses emailed the Financial Ombudsman confirming that it agreed with the outcome that 
was reached in the provisional decision. 
Ms Rs representative explained it had updated its records and informed Ms R of the 
outcome. But no further comments or information have been provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything new for consideration, I see no reason to depart from 
the findings I reached in the provisional decision. 
I still dont think Morses carried out proportionate checks before it granted loan 4, but as I 
have no further information from Ms R, Im not able to say what Morses may have seen had 
it carried out better checks. Therefore, Im not upholding her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman