DRN-3550460
The complaint
The estate of Mr F complains about Covea Insurance Plcs decision to reject a claim under 
an Accidental Death Benefit Insurance Policy.
What happened
Mr F was driving a car when he was involved in a fatal road traffic collision. His estate made 
a claim but Covea rejected it citing a policy exclusion where accidental death is caused by or 
results from wilful exposure to exceptional risk unless saving someones life. Covea 
explained its decision was based on the facts of the accident:
Mr F was overtaking several vehicles including a lorry. 
Witness statements say that he was initially ducking in and out of traffic to perform 
the overtaking manoeuvre. 
He was exceeding the speed limit of 60 mph, and his actions were not legal.
He misjudged the situation as the witness statements say that he had ample 
opportunity to pull in behind any one of the vehicles that were behind the HGV lorry, 
but he chose not to.
For the main part the factual circumstances are not in dispute:
The collision occurred on a long straight A road.
There were no adverse road or weather conditions.
A lorry was at the front of a queue of traffic moving at between 40  50 mph 
(coroners report).
Other vehicles had successfully overtaken the lorry prior to Mr F.
Mr F at the time of collision was travelling between 66  69 mph (police forensic 
report).
Mr F had overtaken the lorry and transitioning back into his correct lane.
An immediate oncoming vehicle (vehicle A) had slowed down to around 30mph 
because of Mr F.
Driver of vehicle B, through lack of attention, reacted late and to avoid vehicle A in 
front, swerved into the lane Mr F was now moving into and the collision occurred.
Our investigator explained why he thought Covea had acted unfairly in declining the claim 
and recommended Covea settle the claim:
Mr F had swerved back into his own lane after overtaking the lorry. 
The oncoming vehicle (vehicle B) Mr F collided with had reacted late due to lack of 
attention and swerved into Mr Fs lane.
Overtaking wasnt prohibited on the stretch of road.
Other vehicles had overtaken the lorry.
The police forensic report didnt describe Mr Fs actions in a way that suggests he 
wilfully exposed himself to exceptional risk.
Covea disagreed with the investigator, although it didnt provide further reasons.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting place for my consideration is the insurance policy. This states it will pay the 
benefit in the policy schedule where Mr F as the insured person suffers accidental
injury, which is the sole cause of, and results in the Insured Persons death within 12 
months of the injury from which a claim arises. But it will not pay such a claim caused by or 
resulting from wilful exposure to exceptional risk unless saving someones life.
The exclusion doesnt have further definition on the policy and Covea hasnt sought to apply 
any special meaning or definition to the words.
I dont think its controversial to construe wilful as meaning deliberate or intentional and on 
the facts of collision I think its clear that Mr F intended to overtake cars and the lorry. 
Theres no evidence to suggest it was a manoeuvre under duress or other factor that Mr F 
wasnt in control of. But that wilfulness has, in my view, to be directed to the exposure to 
exceptional risk. Im mindful of the Court of Appeals judgment in Morley v United Friendly 
Insurance plc 1993 WL 963502 which involved a similar exclusion1.
The insurance policy covers death within 12 months, because of accidental injury which is 
the sole cause. So, the wilfulness has to be directed to the exposure to exceptional risk, 
which in my view here is accidental injury. I think the level of injury is important because the 
policy only covers the most tragic of circumstances where death occurs and within a specific 
timeframe. I think it reasonable to say the risk must be more than de minimis and the word 
exceptional connotes something more unusual and not typical. Im satisfied that the 
exposure needs to be exposure to serious injury as thats whats more likely to result in the 
peril (death) that the policy covers.
Im persuaded that the fair way to interpret the exception Covea has relied on is that it must 
show on balance that Mr F intentionally exposed himself to exceptional risk. As Lord Justice 
Beldam put it in Morley its not enough for an insurer to show that intentional acts done by 
the insured resulted in his being exposed to needless peril. I think its fair for me to extend 
that logic to exceptional risk for the purposes of this complaint. 
Having thought about this very carefully Im aware of the general day to day risks when 
driving a car. I bear in mind that Mr Fs speed was more than the speed limit but not such 
that the police described it as dangerous or similar. Overtaking wasnt precluded by road 
signs or markings. There was no suggestion that Mr F was intoxicated or unfit through 
alcohol, medication, or other reason. And I bear in mind that the first oncoming car (vehicle 
A) to Mr F slowed to around 30 mph to avoid a collision but didnt feel it necessary to stop to 
avoid a collision, and indeed there was no impact. 
1 Wilful exposure to needless peril.The police report suggests the driver of vehicle B reacted late due to lack of attention and to 
avoid a collision with vehicle A swerved into the oncoming lane. It transpired that Mr F was 
also transitioning to this same lane and the correct one for him, after overtaking the lorry, 
when the collision occurred. Ive considered Coveas point that Mr Fs speed was in 
contravention of the speed limit for the stretch of road. But I dont think that alone meets 
what is a high threshold for the policy exclusion. The exclusion cant fairly exclude a risk of 
all injuries or circumstances that give rise to injuries, there has to be something in the 
policyholders acts that demonstrate their exposure to exceptional risk was wilful. Mere 
negligence wouldnt in my view meet that threshold as that would effectively restrict the 
policy to so few circumstances as to be meaningless. In saying this Im thinking about the 
plethora of activities that involve inherent risk such as found in sports, hill walking and water-
based activities.
In Coveas submissions it has said that Mr F misjudged the situation and I agree, but Im 
not satisfied Covea has shown the exclusion for wilful exposure to exceptional risk fairly 
applies.    
Putting things right
The policy schedule weve been provided with by Covea states the Accidental Death Benefit 
is £103,568 and so thats what Covea must pay. 
As is usual for our awards, where money has been deprived when it shouldnt, Covea must 
also pay simple interest at 8% per year from the date it should reasonably have paid the 
claim. I note that due to the pandemic there were delays in receiving information from the 
police and the coroner. 
The coroners report wasnt sent to Covea until 31st July 2020 and it informed the estate that 
the claim was rejected on 2 September 2020. I think its fair that interest applies from 2 
September 2020 to the date payment is sent to the estate of Mr F.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Covea Insurance plc to pay Mr Fs Accidental Death 
Benefit claim to his estate together with interest as set out above.
Covea must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr Fs 
estate accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr F 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman