The complaint
Mrs H has complained about pension advice she received in 1993. Phoenix Life Limited is 
responsible for the advice.
What happened
Mrs H has complained to Phoenix with the help of a claim's management company (CMC).
Phoenix didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the advice Mrs H had been given had been 
reviewed in 2000 as part of the industry wide Pensions Review. The investigation concluded 
that she had lost out by transferring from her former employers defined benefit pension 
scheme and starting a personal pension plan instead. So compensation was calculated in 
line with the review guidance and paid into Mrs Hs pension plan.
Mrs H didnt agree and referred her complaint to this service. It was considered by an 
investigator, but she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained that the 
review in 2000 had concluded that the advice Mrs H was given in 1993 was unsuitable. But 
redress had been calculated in line with the review guidance and paid into Mrs Hs pension. 
The Pensions Review was intended to be a one-off resolution and there was no requirement 
on a business to reconsider or recalculate losses.
Mrs Hs CMC didnt agree. It made general comments about the Pensions Review itself, 
suggesting it was not fit for purpose. It also said that in this case Mrs H hadnt accepted the 
offer Phoenix had made, and she had wanted to be reinstated into the former scheme. It 
said that the original offer was wrong as additional compensation was paid later, which 
again, Mrs H didnt accept. It added that when Phoenix had made its offers it had also said 
that the payments wouldnt prevent Mrs H making a claim at a later date as she had not 
accepted. The CMC added that Phoenix had not evidenced that the correct assumptions had 
been used in the calculations.
The investigator didnt change her view and so the case has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 1993 following advice from Phoenix, Mrs H agreed to transfer some pension savings she 
held in an occupational pension scheme into a personal pension.
That advice was reviewed by Phoenix in 2000. It accepted that Mrs H was worse off 
because of the transfer and offered redress. Mrs H didnt accept and so, after a number of 
reminders met with no response, the redress was added to her personal pension policy in 
DRN-1636129November 2001. There was then an actuarial review in December 2001 which resulted in 
additional redress being added to the personal pension policy.
Ive considered the general comments Mrs Hs CMC has made about the Pensions Review. 
Its not open to this service to make a retrospective assessment of whether the Pensions 
Review was fit for purpose. The Pensions Review was set up by the industry regulator at 
the time and when deciding this complaint I must have regard to the relevant regulatory rules 
from the time, and consider what was good industry practice.  
The Pensions Review exercise started in late 1994, looking at transfers that took place 
between April 1988 and June 1994. Between 1995 and 1997 it considered, as phase 1, the 
highest priority cases - typically those where pensions were already in payment, or would be 
shortly. The second phase followed in 1999, and it was this phase that applied to Mrs H. The 
exercise was intended to draw a line under issues that had happened a number of years 
before, and were prevalent across large parts of the industry.
The regulator at the time set out a series of assumptions on which the calculations should be 
performed. Those calculations were complex, and needed to take into account a significant 
number of factors including information about the consumer, and about the pension scheme 
from which they had transferred. With the benefit of hindsight some of the assumptions that 
the regulator used, such as for future investment returns, have not proved to be realistic. But 
that in itself isn't a reason for me to conclude that the calculations performed were incorrect.
Phoenix has provided us with copies of the information it used to calculate the compensation 
that was due to Mrs H. Whilst the calculations themselves were complex, and often required 
the input of actuaries, there is nothing to suggest that Phoenix didnt perform them in line 
with the regulator's requirements. 
The outcome of those calculations would only be correct if the input data about the 
consumer and their occupational scheme was also correct. The information Phoenix held for 
Mrs H at the time appears to be correct. Phoenix did have evidence of Mrs Hs entitlement 
from the employer scheme. It doesn't seem to me that there are any clear grounds to 
conclude that the compensation Phoenix paid to Mrs H in 2001 was calculated incorrectly.
It may be the case that Mrs Hs personal pension will not provide the same benefits as the 
occupational scheme. But that doesn't mean the pension review exercise was completed 
incorrectly. 
Mrs H may not have expressly accepted the redress offered, and the letters she was sent 
did suggest she could make a future claim. But I think these letters have to be considered in 
their entirety, as they included the following;
However, as you have not responded to our offer, we are of the opinion that you are failing 
to mitigate any further loss you might incur. As a result, the redress we intend to pay will 
remain fixed at the amount already offered and will only be amended to take account of any 
information or argument you may produce now or in the future which demonstrates our 
original offer was incorrect.
I understand how disappointing this will be for Mrs H, but Im satisfied that Phoenix offered 
redress in-line with the Pensions Review guidance. It was following the regulator's guidance 
which was considered good industry practice at the time. There was no requirement to re-do 
these calculations, the Review was a one-off. Mrs H may not have expressly accepted the 
offers but there is no evidence that the calculations werent made correctly. She may have 
preferred to be reinstated in the occupational scheme but there is no evidence that the 
trustees of that scheme ever consented to that.So for these reasons, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to uphold the complaint
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Phoenix Life Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman