DRN-2792121
The complaint
Miss S complains about how Acasta European Insurance Company Limited settled her claim 
on her furniture insurance policy.
What happened
In 2017 Miss S bought two sofas. They came with a five year insurance policy. In 2020 she 
made a claim as there were two small stains on one of the sofas. 
Acasta sent out a technician to look at the sofa. He said he would attempt to remove the 
stains. However Miss S wasnt happy with this course of action, as she said cleaning 
products werent suitable for the sofa. She told him not to attempt the clean, but he went 
ahead and tried to remove the stains.
His attempt didnt work and caused a larger mark on the sofa. Due to this, Acasta said it 
would replace the sofa cushions. However it found that the sofa had been discontinued, so it 
wasnt able to order new sofa cushions. 
As an alternative it asked a specialist cleaning company to attend to try and clean the sofa. 
The company called Miss S before attending, but said they wouldnt be able to help as the 
previous clean had caused colour loss which it wouldnt be able to reverse. 
Due to this Acasta said it would offer a settlement to replace the sofa instead. It offered a 
credit note for £3,340.12 or a cash settlement of £2,004.07. It said this met its liability under 
the policy, as the maximum cover under the policy was the original purchase price of the 
sofa and Miss S had made a number of claims already. 
Miss S didnt think this was fair, she said she wasnt able to get a new sofa for the cash 
settlement and that she would also need to replace the second sofa as it wouldnt match a 
replacement. She made a complaint. 
Acasta didnt uphold her complaint. It said it was satisfied it had settled her claim fairly and in 
line with the policy terms and conditions. However it accepted its technician didnt provide 
good service, so offered £50 compensation to make up for that.
Miss S didnt think this was fair. She said she had warned the technician that the cleaning 
product would make the stain worse, and she had told Acasta this on a number of occasions 
that these products shouldnt be used. So she felt it was Acastas fault that she now needed 
to replace the sofa. She brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she was satisfied 
Acasta had followed its usual process and treated Miss S fairly by offering the settlement it 
did. However she agreed the service provided had been poor and thought it should pay £100 
compensation. 
Miss S didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Since the complaint came to me, I came to a different outcome to our investigator. I wrote to 
Miss S and Acasta to explain that I didnt think Acasta had acted fairly, as Miss S had made 
it clear that the cleaning product shouldnt be used on her sofa. I therefore thought Acasta 
should pay Miss S the cost of the damaged sofa plus 50% of the matching items as a cash 
settlement. I also thought Acasta should pay £200 compensation to make up for the distress 
and inconvenience it had caused her. 
Miss S accepted my provisional decision. However Acasta didnt agree. It said the terms and 
conditions of the policy only required it to pay a cash settlement of what it would cost it to 
replace the items, so it didnt think my suggested settlement was fair. However it accepted 
the increased compensation.
Ive considered Acastas comments when reaching my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint, I need to decide if a business has got something wrong. And 
where it hasnt, what it should do to put its customer back in the position they would have 
been in if it hadnt.
I have considered the notes from Miss S policy. And I can see that throughout the whole 
lifetime of the policy Miss S has stressed to Acasta that cleaning products shouldnt be used 
on the sofa. This has been noted on Acastas systems numerous times - on every claim she 
has made. And I can see she has asked for notes to be clear so that cleaning of any future 
stains would never be attempted. She has also provided information that she received when 
she bought the sofa which confirmed that these products arent suitable. 
Miss S has said she made it very clear to the technician that attended for this claim, that a 
stain remover should not be used. And from the notes on all other claims, I dont have 
reason to doubt this account. So based on this, I dont think Acastas technician acted fairly 
by attempting to remove the stain.
I understand that the technician would have made the assumption that there would be no 
loss  as even if he used the stain remover and it didnt work, he would then arrange for the 
sofa cushions to be replaced. However I have to base my decision on what did happen 
rather than what he thought was going to happen.
And in this case when new cushions were ordered it was found that these had been 
discontinued. And a specialist cleaning company said they wouldnt be able to remove the 
stain due to the cleaning product used. 
So because Acastas technician used the cleaning product on Miss S sofa, against her 
advice, this meant it was now damaged beyond repair and needed to be replaced.
As Im satisfied that Acasta has got something wrong, I have gone on to consider what 
would have happened if it hadnt. In order to decide how it should put things right. Had the 
technician listened to Miss S advice he would have requested new sofa covers and found 
that they were unavailable. Subsequently the cleaning company that was then instructed by 
Acasta would have attended. And they have said they would most likely have been able to 
remove the stain. So its likely Miss S would have had a sofa without a stain on again. I have therefore considered what Acasta should do to put things right. I would expect Acasta 
to put Miss S back in the position she would have been in had they not handled the claim 
poorly. So I will require Acasta to pay Miss S the total cost of the original sofa.
As the sofa has been discontinued, on buying a new sofa Miss S will need to also replace 
the other matching items. It is the approach of this service that where matching items need 
to be replaced, the business should offer a 50% contribution. So I also require Acasta to pay 
50% of the cost of all matching items Miss S purchased with the sofa. 
Acasta has said it doesnt agree its fair that it offers a cash settlement, as under the policy it 
is only required to pay what it would cost it to replace the sofa. While I agree this wouldnt be 
covered under the policy, I need to decide whats fair in the circumstances. And as the 
actions of Acastas agent has caused Miss S to need to replace her sofa, I think its fair for 
Acasta to offer a cash settlement so she can choose a suitable replacement from a range of 
options. 
Finally, I can see that Acasta has caused Miss S distress and inconvenience when handling 
her claim. She has explained how distressing it was that her comments were dismissed by 
the technician when they attended to remove the stain. Further Miss S has been left with a 
sofa in a worse condition than it was in when she raised the claim, which has caused her 
further distress. I therefore require Acasta to pay Miss S £200 compensation to make up for 
the distress it has caused her. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold Miss S complaint. I require Acasta European 
Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Miss S the total cost of the damaged sofa plus 50% of all the matching items she 
purchased at the same time.
Pay Miss S £200 compensation. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman