DRN-3780223
The complaint
Miss M, representing the estate of her late daughter Miss J, complains about delays in 
arranging the closure of Miss Js accounts with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
In July 2021, Miss M went to a branch of NatWest and signed documents in order to close 
the late Miss Js accounts held with NatWest. Miss M was told that the accounts would be 
closed and that the money held within them would be sent to her within 10 working days. But 
then Miss M received letters and calls from NatWest which asked her to provide 
documentation  which she thought shed already provided.
This meant the accounts werent closed and the money wasnt sent to her within the 10 days 
NatWest stated. Instead it took over two weeks before this was done. Miss M complained 
about this and NatWest said that it couldnt see why it took so long to close the accounts and 
transfer the money. It said that it was an oversight and accepted that its service to Miss M 
had fallen short here. It offered Miss M £250 for the impact this had on her.
Miss M didnt accept this and brought her complaint to this service, where one of our 
investigators looked into it. They acknowledged that this would have been a difficult time for 
Miss M and that NatWest had got things wrong, but felt the £250 was fair for the impact 
here. They also noted that, since referring the complaint to this service, NatWest offered to 
cover any costs incurred by Miss M during the time the closure and transfer should have 
been completed and the actual date.
Miss M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to decide the complaint. Before that 
happened, our investigator explained that this service can only consider the impact on an 
eligible complainant  which here is the estate of the late Miss J, rather than Miss M as an 
individual. He said that this means that we cant ask NatWest to increase any offers which 
have been made to her as an individual. But Miss M said that she believes that an 
ombudsman can do this and so wanted a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can only begin to understand what Miss M will have been through here following her loss. 
To have this made worse by NatWests admitted failures will have only made an incredibly 
difficult situation even worse. But, Im sorry to disappoint Miss M here, as what our 
investigator said about the limits of our ability to help is correct. 
The rules that apply to this service explain who is eligible to complain to this service. These 
rules are known as DISP and are available online. The relevant section is DISP 2.7.6R. In 
the circumstances here, the eligible complainant is the late Miss Js estate, as it was Miss J 
who had a relevant relationship with NatWest. So while Miss M is entitled to represent 
Miss Js estate in bringing this complaint  we can only consider it in terms of the impact on 
the estate as an entity, separate to Miss M.
We cant consider any complaint from Miss M as an individual about the impact this situation 
had on her. She doesnt meet the test of holding a relevant relationship with NatWest under 
the rules in order to be eligible to complain about this situation in her own right. Put simply, 
her ability to represent her late daughters estate doesnt mean that she can also complain 
about how this impacted on her as an individual.
I realise this will read somewhat coldly to Miss M  but its important to outline what the rules 
that apply to us mean we can and cant do. Here, the rules mean that I cant tell NatWest to 
compensate Miss M for any impact on her as an individual. NatWests offers are made to her 
in that capacity and so I cannot tell it to change or increase those. If Miss M would now like 
to accept these, then she is free to speak to NatWest about this outside of our involvement.
The aspect of this complaint I can consider is the impact on the late Miss Js estate. 
Everyone agrees that NatWest made mistakes here and didnt do what it should have in the 
right timeframes. It accepts that its service fell short here and I think thats clearly the case. 
But, in order for me to say that NatWest should do something more here, I have to be 
satisfied that its failings had an impact on the estate.
But an estate cant feel distress or be upset and so I cant compensate it for any emotional 
impact. And then when looking at any inconvenience caused here  its clear that NatWest 
took longer than it should have to close the accounts and transfer the money to Miss M. But 
that is an impact on Miss M, rather than Miss Js estate. Miss M hasnt said anything, or 
provided any evidence of any impact to the estate itself. That means that even though I 
accept NatWest made mistakes here, I cant say that there is an impact on Miss Js estate in 
a way that means NatWest should do any more here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of 
Miss J to accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman