DRN-4048784
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about errors and poor service by Barclays Bank UK PLC in relation 
to a buy to let mortgage. Mrs P has dealt with the complaint. She asks for compensation. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had a joint buy to let mortgage with Barclays. Mrs P contacted Barclays as 
they wanted to transfer the property title into Mrs Ps sole name and then into joint names 
with their son. Mrs P says Barclays told her shed have to redeem the mortgage and take out 
a new mortgage after making changes to the property title.
Mrs P asked Barclays for a redemption figure which she paid in September 2021 using 
savings. She says she intended to take out a new mortgage immediately.
Barclays made a number of errors. The charge wasnt removed from the property title until 
July 2022. Mrs P says she made numerous calls trying to sort matters out.
Barclays offered a hamper (which Mrs P declined) and paid £250 compensation. 
I sent a provisional decision to the parties explaining why I intended to uphold the complaint 
and order Barclays to pay an additional £500. I also explained why I didnt think it was fair 
and reasonable to require Barclays to pay compensation for the financial loss Mrs P said 
theyd suffered, such as additional interest due to interest rates increasing before they were 
able to re-mortgage, legal costs, and interest or compensation for not having use of the 
redemption monies. 
Mrs P didnt agree. She provided more information about what happened. She re-sent a 
message from her solicitor saying the additional legal costs due to Barclays delays were 
about £460. But she didnt send copies of her solicitors invoices or other evidence Id 
previously requested to demonstrate what work the solicitor carried out and when the 
solicitor was instructed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr and Mrs P wanted to transfer the title of their buy to let property into Mrs Ps sole name. 
They intended to then make a further transfer of the title into joint names of Mrs P and their 
son. As they had a buy to let mortgage secured on the property, Mrs P contacted Barclays to 
see how they could go about this.
Mrs P says Barclays gave her the impression that her only option was to repay the 
mortgage, make the changes to the property title and then make a mortgage application 
jointly with her son.
In September 2021 Mrs P asked Barclays for a redemption figure. She made the payment 
the same day, using savings.
Mrs P says she intended to apply for the new mortgage straight away. But when she tried to 
book an appointment Barclays said the lead time was weeks.
Mrs P contacted Barclays again in February 2022. Her solicitors had told her they were 
unable to make changes to the property title as Barclays charge hadnt been removed.
Barclays says the funds Mrs P paid in September were applied to the account two days 
later, but the mortgage wasnt fully repaid. It says the settlement figure it gave to Mrs P didnt 
include the interest that was applied that day. There was an unpaid balance of about £150.
Barclays told Mrs P that as the mortgage hadnt been redeemed, she could apply for a 
transfer of equity (to put the mortgage into her sole name), and once this was completed, 
ask for her son to be added to the account and apply for additional borrowing. Barclays says 
this information was incorrect. The mortgage account was at that time pending redemption, 
and it needed to be paid off.
Mrs P says her solicitor sent a written request, as specified by Barclays, for the transfer of 
equity but didnt hear back from Barclays. Barclays notes say it doesnt have a record of the 
solicitors letter.
Mrs P paid the £150 shortfall in late May 2022. There was an error which delayed the 
payment being applied to the account until early June 2022. The charge was released on 
14 July 2022. The property title was registered in Mrs Ps sole name in early September 
2022.
Mrs P says by July 2022 theyd started the process to re-mortgage another buy to let 
property. They decided to proceed with this as theyd paid fees and for a valuation, and she 
couldnt wait for an appointment with Barclays to start an application for a new mortgage. 
Mrs P received a mortgage offer from another lender for the other property in September 
2022. She said she hoped this would complete in February 2023.
What was the effect of Barclays errors?
Theres no dispute that Barclays made errors. Barclays made an error with the settlement 
figure. It accepts that it didnt contact Mrs P about the shortfall. It made another error in 
February 2022 when it told Mrs P she could apply to put the mortgage into her sole name. 
And it caused a short delay in applying the payment Mrs P made in May 2022 to the 
mortgage account.
It's also not in dispute that Mrs P couldnt register the changes to the property title with the 
Land Registry or re-mortgage the property until Barclays removed its charge. I need to 
consider what effect Barclays errors had on Mr and Mrs P, whether it caused them financial 
loss and what compensation is fair and reasonable.
Mrs P says she wanted to take out a new mortgage straight away, but didnt book an 
appointment with Barclays in late 2021 because the lead time was weeks. We asked Mrs P 
why she didnt book an appointment with Barclays despite this, given shed have expected 
the changes to the property title to take a few weeks anyway. Mrs P said she had to wait for 
the title to be changed before applying for a mortgage with Barclays or elsewhere. Mrs P 
said there was also a long wait for appointments in mid-2022, which is why she decided to re-mortgage another property via a broker.
While theres no reason to doubt that Mrs P intended to re-mortgage the property, Im not 
persuaded by the evidence that this was an urgent matter for her in late 2021.
Mrs P said she wasnt aware there was a problem until February 2022. Barclays accepts it 
didnt chase Mrs P for the shortfall. Equally, if the matter was urgent, Id have expected 
Mrs P to chase Barclays about removing its charge. If she instructed a solicitor to make 
changes to the title in September 2021, Id have thought her solicitor would see that the 
charge hadnt been removed and alert Mrs P to this sooner. Mrs P didnt provide her 
solicitors invoices, so I cant see when she first instructed her solicitor to do this work.
Barclays gave Mrs P incorrect information in February 2022, which she says she acted on. 
Barclays says it doesnt have a record of the letter from Mrs Ps solicitor. If Mrs P and her 
solicitor didnt hear back from Barclays and the matter was urgent, Id expect her to contact 
Barclays again, before May 2022. Mrs P says Barclays told her to wait until her son could 
provide payslips from his new job, at the end of March 2022. 
Barclays provided notes for Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage account. Theres no record of contact 
from Mrs Ps solicitor. I asked in my provisional decision if Mrs P if could provide evidence of 
the letter sent by her solicitor and their contact with Barclays. She didnt provide this. 
Mrs P said she used savings to repay the mortgage in September 2021, but needed these 
funds and so she needed to re-mortgage immediately. Mrs P previously said she intended to 
use the funds for a development opportunity that shed already committed to. She didnt 
provide evidence of the development opportunity. In response to my provisional decision 
Mrs P said she needed the money for a deposit on a property they intended to buy and live 
in. She said her offer for this property was accepted in May 2021 and she was worried theyd 
exchange at any moment meaning shed need the money for the deposit. 
Mrs P says during the delay in re-mortgaging (in the end she re-mortgaged another property) 
interest rates had gone up.
I agree that this could have caused Mrs P financial loss. But Id need more evidence thats 
the case before I can fairly require Barclays to pay compensation for this loss.
First, Im not persuaded from the available evidence that re-mortgaging was an urgent 
matter for Mrs P. If this was the case, Id expect Mrs P to be able to provide evidence of the 
steps taken to change the property title and start the re-mortgage process. For instance, Id 
expect her to provide evidence she instructed solicitors to change the property title at about 
the time she made the repayment. Mrs P didnt provide this.
In simple terms, I havent seen evidence that Mrs P was doing all she could to move the 
matter forwards and the only thing that stopped her re-mortgaging was Barclays errors. In 
fact, Mrs P hasnt provided evidence she took any steps between September 2021 and early 
2022 to start the process to change the property title.
Second, while the evidence is somewhat unclear, theres some suggestion that Mrs P didnt 
pass Barclays affordability checks for the mortgage to be transferred into her sole name in 
September 2021. While Mrs P was offered a mortgage in September 2022, that was a year 
later and for a different property. I said in my provisional decision that Mrs P had reduced her 
financial commitments when she repaid the Barclays mortgage and was moving house 
which might also have changed her outgoings. Mrs P says this wasnt the case as they didnt 
exchange on their home until later in 2022. The point remains though, that its not clear from the available evidence that, even if 
Barclays had removed its charge, Mrs P would have been offered a new mortgage in late 
2021 or early 2022. If her intention was for the property title to be in joint names with her 
son, the two title transfers would have had to be completed and then (presumably) Mrs P 
would have made a joint mortgage application with her son. From what Mrs P says, her son 
started a new job in early 2022 and she was told to wait until the end of March 2022 so he 
could provide his new payslip. All this might have delayed the re-mortgage. 
Ultimately Mrs P decided to re-mortgage another buy to let property to raise the money she 
needed. While this might not have been her preference, she could have done this sooner if 
there was an urgent need for funds, or she wanted to secure a mortgage before interest 
rates increased. Mrs P says she didnt do this because she believed Barclays would sort the 
problems out. 
Mrs P also asked that Barclays compensates her for additional legal fees. Again, I agree that 
this could be a financial loss for Mrs P due to Barclays errors. But, as I said in my 
provisional decision, I need to see evidence, such as the solicitors invoices or written 
confirmation from the solicitor with details of the additional work, the costs of the additional 
work and when this work was undertaken. While Mrs P re-sent a copy of a message from 
her solicitor about the additional costs due to Barclays delays, this doesnt provide this 
information.
Mrs P paid about £115,000 to Barclays in September 2021 with the intention of redeeming 
her mortgage. She asks that Barclays pays interest on this money which she says it held 
onto for 10 months. I dont think thats reasonable. Mrs P repaid the mortgage debt she 
owed to Barclays. If Mrs P hadnt made the payment, shed have paid interest to Barclays 
during this period.
I dont think Mrs P has provided sufficient evidence she suffered financial loss due to 
Barclays errors to make it fair and reasonable to require Barclays to pay her compensation 
for financial loss. But theres no doubt this matter caused Mrs P inconvenience and stress, 
and this is something Barclays should pay compensation for. I think £500, in addition to the 
£250 compensation Barclays has already paid, is fair and reasonable. 
In its final response letter, Barclays said it paid £250 into Mrs Ps account. Mrs P says she 
hasnt seen evidence of this. If Mrs P checks her account and cant see the payment, Id 
suggest she contacts Barclays..
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £500 to Mr 
and Mrs P (in addition to the £250 compensation its already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman