DRN-2809282
The complaint
 Mr B complains that RCI Financial Services Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
RCI is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car was new when Mr B acquired it and the engine failed after less than four years 
having covered less than 20,000 miles. This was caused by a spark plug failure leading to 
the end of it falling off and melting a hole in a piston. It required a replacement engine. I 
believe such an event is exceptional, but I have not been given a reason as to why the spark 
plug failed. 
RCI and the manufacturer suggest that as the car didnt have a full service history that this 
may have been the cause, but without specifying how that led to the failure. The service 
history show that the car was serviced on 30 October 2017 and then on 25 October 2019. 
The failure occurred after it had been serviced and I think it reasonable to resume any issue 
that might have been identified during the missed service would have been picked up in the 
October 2019 one.
I am also aware that the car had relatively light use of some 5,000 miles a year and while it 
would have been better had the car been served as per the schedule I am not persuaded 
that a missed service was sufficient to be the cause of the major fault.
I appreciate Mr B didnt meet the requirements of the contract in that he was supposed to 
have the car serviced at the scheduled times, but that doesnt mean that the outcome 
proposed by RCI and the manufacturer (a goodwill offer to cover 25% of the costs) results in 
a fair and reasonable outcome. 
A new engine should last more than 20,000 miles and I cannot say that there is any 
evidence the car was not treated properly. If it had been, I presume something would have 
shown up during the October 2019 service. As our investigator has pointed out it is not 
recommended that the spark plugs be changed until the car has dome 36,000 miles or is 
four years old. I consider the only reasonable conclusion is that there was some inherent 
fault.
Putting things right
 The agreement has ended and the car is with the dealer. Mr B has explained that he had 
planned to trade it in once the agreement concluded in late 2020. I understand the trade in 
value was approximately £12,325 and the optional final payment was £9,027.29. I think it fair 
that Mr B be reimbursed the difference between the amount he wouldve received from a 
part-exchange, and the final payment on the agreement. 
Furthermore, as he wasnt able to use it from 8 August 2020 to the end of the agreement he 
should get a refund for the payments he made during this time. I also consider he is entitled 
to compensation for the trouble and upset he has suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct RCI Financial Services Limited 
to:
refund Mr B any monthly payments made from 8 August 2020 to the end of the 
agreement,
reimburse Mr B £3,297.71 for the positive equity he wouldve carried over at the end 
of the agreement.
pay Mr B £200 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused and
remove any adverse information being recorded on Mr Bs credit file after July 2020 if 
applicable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman