DRN-2338785
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the advice they received in 2017 from Foster Denovo Limited 
(FD). They say they were not advised that they were only receiving restricted advice where 
investments were confined to a limited number of options. They also believe that FD did not 
maximize pension allowances and did not provide ongoing reviews which justified the annual 
review fees being charged. Mr B says that he had the ability to make higher pension 
contributions in 2018 but FD did not advise him to do so. He also believes that the 
investment funds they were recommended to invest in did not match their attitude to risk. Mr 
and Mrs B say that FD did not make use of their ISA allowances and FD did not provide an 
adequate level of service with respect to fund valuations. 
  
What happened
After meeting with an FD adviser in 2016, Mr and Mrs B were given formal recommendations 
about their pensions and investments in 2017. This included advice about how to invest 
money into non-pension investments and ISA, and how their pensions should be invested 
and what scope they had to make further contributions. In 2018 Mr and Mrs B were 
concerned about the service they were receiving and the advice they had been given. So the 
made a complaint to FD.
FD did not uphold the complaint. It said Mr and Mrs B had been provided with documents 
which set out the fees it would charge and the restricted basis on which it would provide 
advice. It also said that the adviser would have explained the restricted advice proposition 
when he met with Mrs and Mrs B in 2016. It said that its adviser had met with Mr and Mrs B 
in 2018 to review their position and investments. However, it agreed that it did not appear 
that Mr and Mrs B had been advised to maximize their ISA allowances in the 2017/18 and 
2018/19 tax years. It said it had calculated that they had not been disadvantaged by this but 
made an offer of £250 as a gesture of goodwill.  
As to pension contributions it stated that its adviser was of the view that pension 
contributions had been maximized and that he recalled it being discussed that there was no 
spare money in this respect - as money was being spent on properties. 
FD said that it had assessed Mr and Mrs Bs attitude to risk and made recommendations of 
suitable funds based on that. The fund managers then decided in what assets to invest in 
within those funds and in what proportions  the adviser did not have any control over that. It 
did agree that some of Mrs Bs money had not been invested properly with Royal London 
and so carried out a redress calculation which indicated a financial loss had been caused. It 
offered to make good this loss.   
FD said there was an issue in respect of income not being distributed from investments but 
on review it was felt that the income was not necessary and should be reinvested. So this 
had not caused any financial loss. But in any event, it was an error by the fund 
administrators that caused income not to be paid, not FD. 
As to accessing information about investments, it noted that valuation statements were not 
easy to read and that it had been in dialogue with the administrators of the investments 
about this. 
Mr and Mrs B referred their complaint to this service and it was considered by an 
investigator. She considered the points of complaint they had made. In summary she said:
Mr and Mrs B were made aware of the restricted advice basis of the advice.
The investments recommended were suitable for Mr and Mrs Bs assessed attitude 
to risk.
The approach taken by FD to assessing whether loss had been caused as to the 
ISAs was appropriate, as was its approach to calculating loss with respect to the lack 
of investment in Mrs Bs Royal London policy.
She didnt believe that the nature of FDs ongoing service meant that the annual fees 
should be refunded. 
She did believe the sum FD had offered for goodwill should be higher and 
recommended a payment of £400 each.
FD accepted the investigators findings. 
Mr and Mrs B did not accept the findings. In summary they said:
FD not picking up on the funds not paying income as expected is evidence of its lack 
of the review service they were paying for. No in-depth reviews took place and the 
review in 2018 consisted of a single piece of paper. That FD failed to identify that Mrs 
Bs money had not been invested properly also indicates that it did not undertake 
proper reviews. They remain of the view that the payment for ongoing service should 
be refunded.
They should have had access to a reasonable level of clear and understandable 
information about their investments  and they did not.
They have not received the payment in respect of Mrs Bs money not being invested 
properly  and this should be supplied.
They accept the payment of £400 each.
Mr B later raised the issue of FD not advising him correctly about his pension contributions. 
FD was given the opportunity to respond to Mr and Mrs Bs concerns. It said that it believed 
an appropriate review was carried out via a meeting in August 2018. And the evidence 
indicated that the adviser followed up this review shortly afterwards, in response to further 
information which Mr B sought. In respect of Mrs B, the adviser indicated at the time that he 
was to arrange a further meeting to consider this. 
The investigator reviewed the complaint and issued a further assessment. In summary, she 
said:
It did appear that an adequate review was undertaken in 2018.
FD had taken appropriate steps to rectify the lack of investment of some of Mrs Bs 
money.
The issue of making further pension contributions was discussed but it was not felt 
that further contributions could be made at the time.
Mr and Mrs B did not accept that assessment and said that they still had concerns about the 
ongoing service they had been provided with  taking into account the mistakes that FB had made. Mr B said that FD did not take account of the corporation tax he could have saved if 
his company had paid into the pension and he lived off his savings.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The basis of the advice
Mr and Mrs B have disputed that they were made aware that they were being given advice 
on a restricted basis. This kind of service means that FD had a limited panel (less than the 
whole of the market) of potential products or investments. That does not necessarily mean 
that Mr and Mrs B are disadvantaged by that and many businesses operate on this basis. In 
terms of Mr and Mrs B being told about this, I would agree with the findings of the 
investigator. As she set out, the service agreement that Mr and Mrs B agreed to did set out 
that it was a restricted service being provided, and the adviser also confirmed that when he 
issued his recommendations. So I cannot arrive at the conclusion, based on the evidence, 
that this was not made clear.
Appropriateness of investment funds
I have seen various financial planning reports that were completed for Mr and Mrs B in 2017, 
after the adviser had undertaken a fact-finding exercise and a risk assessment had been 
completed. Mr B was classed as moderate risk, which was described as:
You are prepared to take a moderate amount of investment risk in order to increase the 
chance of achieving a positive return. Capital protection is less important to you than 
achieving a better return on the investment. A typical Moderate investor will usually invest in 
a variety of assets to obtain diversification. There would be a substantially higher proportion 
of equities and property compared to fixed interest and cash. The range of asset types helps 
reduce the overall risks as well as increasing the chance of better returns.
And Mrs B was classed as Low end of Moderate to Adventurous, which was described as:
You are prepared to take a medium degree of risk with your investment in return for the 
prospect of improving longer term investment performance Short term capital protection is 
not important to you and you are willing to sacrifice some long term protection for the 
likelihood of greater returns A typical Moderate to Adventurous investor will be invested 
mainly in equities but with other assets included to provide some diversification There may 
be a small amount of specialised equity within the portfolio Because you are a Iow end of 
Moderate to Adventurous investor there will be slightly more invested in fixed interest and 
cash.
It is apparent from the reports that the adviser was conscious of the need for the capital to 
support Mr and Mrs B in future and that a balance would need to be struck between the risk 
of the investments (to capital) and the need for the money to provide an acceptable return. 
He therefore recommended an investment approach for the various pension and non-
pension investments that provided diversification across multiple asset classes, including 
equities, bonds and cash. Whilst the actual allocation to these assets would be decided by 
the fund manager, the recommendation of the investment themselves, based on their 
objectives and risk parameters, would in my view accord with Mr and Mrs Bs objectives and 
risk appetite. It should be noted that if Mr and Mrs B took more risk with their investments 
then they would face an increased potential for greater losses. Consequently, I do not believe the advice given with respect to investments was unsuitable 
in terms of the risk level. 
Annual reviews
I note there is a FD summary of values dated 3 August 2018 which tends to show that a 
review was carried out. As Mr B says, this is one sheet of paper which does not contain a 
great deal of detail. FD says that this is not indicative of the entirety of the review because a 
meeting was held by the adviser with Mr and Mrs B  in which their situation was reviewed. 
The adviser has said that Mr and Mrs B were given a proper review, Mr and Mrs B say that it 
did not go far enough and was lacking in detail. It is difficult to assess exactly what was 
discussed when there are clearly very different views by the parties as to whether the review 
was sufficient in light of the ongoing service fee. But the evidence is that the adviser did 
meet with Mr and Mrs B and his notes, albeit brief, do suggest that a review was provided. In 
addition there is evidence that then adviser sought further information that Mr and Mrs B 
required. 
I have seen notes that the adviser made of the August 2018 meeting at the time. He says 
that in that meeting he provided valuations, discussed the non-receipt of income, discussed 
the performance of the investments and their holdings and Mr and Mrs Bs attitude to risk. 
Given the evidence I have seen I cannot come to the conclusion that it is more likely that 
FBs service was deficient to the extent that its ongoing fee should be refunded. I appreciate 
Mr Bs comments about the error in respect in respect of the lack of investment of some of 
Mrs B money and the error that occurred as to income being paid. But I do not believe those 
errors, which I will also consider, necessarily indicate that the reviews did not meet the 
standards of what could reasonably be expected. 
The lack of investment of Mrs Bs money
FB has accepted that some of Mrs Bs money was not invested as it should have been. But 
is has offered to redress that by calculating the loss that was caused  by considering the 
extra return that Mrs B would have made if it had been invested in the appropriate 
investment fund. I believe that is fair redress in the circumstances so I will not make any 
further award in that respect.
ISAs
FD has acknowledged that Mrs and Mrs Bs ISA allowances were not maximized and 
undertook to calculate if they had suffered a loss. 
ISAs shelter the sums invested from tax. Materially the benefit is that returns are free from 
capital gains tax and income tax. In terms of capital gains, Mr and Mrs B have significant 
annual capital gains tax allowances which they can use in future tax years to mitigate gains. 
So, it is not necessarily that the investment gains of any sums that could have been invested 
in ISAs, but were not, would generate a capital gains tax liability. 
I dont believe that FD has used the correct assessment method because it is not just what 
capital gains might be achieved on the ISA amounts that is relevant, but what capital gains 
might be realized from the entirety of the investment portfolio  thereby rendering what could 
have been invested in ISAs of value in terms of tax liability.
Having said that, given the specific circumstances at the time and the size of the Mr and Mrs 
Bs additional portfolio, I dont think its likely that their capital gains allowances would be maximized so that the ISA amounts would become relevant. So I dont believe its likely that 
a loss has been caused.    
Mr and Mrs B also have a significant dividend allowance before they pay tax on dividends. 
So its likely that any dividends (which it is not clear in any event that Mr and Mrs B are 
receiving) would be covered by this. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B have other investments, 
so it is not just a matter of what dividends the ISA amounts produce. But I have not seen 
evidence, taking into account the size of the other non-pension investments and the basis on 
which they are set up, that indicate it is likely that dividend payments will be of a level that 
exceed the allowances. So I do not believe it is likely they have suffered a loss in that 
respect. 
Access to investment information
FB has acknowledged that this was not as straightforward as would be hoped and the matter 
was made more difficult by the fact that the investment administrator did not have an on-line 
portal. The more technical nature of the investment reports did make this matter more 
difficult. This made the provision of information more ad-hoc and Mr and Mrs B had to 
proactively seek this out. Having said that, I believe that the £400 that has been offered to 
both Mr and Mrs B would fairly address the inconvenience caused by that in the period in 
which they retained the services of FB. I dont think the evidence is that this matter caused 
them additional financial losses. 
Pension contributions
In the Retirement Planning Report of 29 March 2017 the adviser set out Mr Bs earnings for 
the 2016/17 tax year. Bearing in mind the contributions Mr B had already made he then set 
out what further contributions could be made in that tax year. It was also set out that Mr B 
had used his full pension allowances for the previous three tax years and so could not make 
additional contributions based on unused allowances. It was then noted that Mr B would 
make a pension contribution that used up most of his remaining allowance. Whilst I note the 
submissions that are made now, this was the background against which the advice was 
given. 
The adviser has also said that when the subject of further pension contributions was 
discussed for the 2017/18 tax year, he was informed that Mr B was uncertain about whether 
he could make further contributions taking into account current income and outgoings. I 
believe Mr B has suggested that he could have made further contributions (or his company 
could) and he could rely on savings instead. However, I dont believe that making pension 
contributions whilst running down savings in Mr and Mrs Bs position at the time would 
necessarily be viewed as good advice. And, even then, whether it would be likely that option 
would have been taken up in the circumstances at the time  including that Mr B had started 
a relatively new business. 
In the circumstances I dont believe the evidence indicates that the advice was flawed in 
terms of pension contributions.
  
Putting things right
FD should pay Mr and Mrs B £400 each and pay them the sum calculated in respect of Mrs 
Bs lost investment opportunity.   
My final decisionI uphold the complaint but only to the extent set out above. I make no other award. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
David Bird
Ombudsman