DRN-3863016
The complaint
Mr A has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a fee-
paying Advantage Gold account in 2003.
Mr A says that the account was mis-sold because he says that he was not provided with any 
information or literature about the account.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the account had 
been mis-sold. 
Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the complaint was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. 
I think it may also help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is 
incomplete, as is the case here, I have to decide what I think most likely happened, based 
on everything that is available. And having considered everything, I dont think the 
Advantage Gold account was in all likelihood mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mr A says that the account was mis-sold, largely because he says he was not provided with 
any information about the packaged account when he signed up to it.
In the final response letter, NatWest said that the packaged account was sold before the 
current Insurance rules, known as ICOB and then later ICOBS, came into force. So NatWest 
said there was no requirement for NatWest to discuss exclusions regarding the insurance 
products provided with the account when it sold it to Mr A.
However, prior to 2005 there were other industry standards applicable to selling insurance. 
For example, the General Insurance Standards Council had a code of conduct that said 
businesses selling insurance should treat customers fairly and should explain the main 
features of the policy and point out any significant restrictions or exclusions. It also said that 
policy holders should be given a copy of the policy terms and conditions  so that they are 
able to understand what is and isnt covered by the policy. 
As such, whilst the current set of regulations may not have been in force in 2003, there were 
still other industry standards that did require NatWest to provide account holders with 
information about the associated insurance products when selling packaged accounts.
Nevertheless, I note that NatWest says that its sales processes at the time required it to give 
Mr A sufficient information about the account and benefits so that he could make an 
informed choice. 
Having considered the competing points, I have to say I find it highly unlikely that NatWest 
didnt tell Mr A about any of the benefits before he agreed to the account. Afterall, NatWest 
wouldve wanted to make the account seem attractive to Mr A so that he would agree to it. 
And I think its more likely than not that he was given at least some information about the 
account and the benefits when it was sold to him. I say this especially as the account was 
sold to Mr A nearly twenty years ago. And Im mindful that recollections can fade and change 
over time. So I think its just as likely that Mr A was told about the account features and cost 
and he has - quite understandably - since forgotten what exactly was discussed during the 
sale.
As well as discussing the account benefits before Mr A agreed to the account, NatWest says 
it sent a welcome pack, which contained further information about the account benefits, to 
Mr A on 19 June 2003. And in the circumstances, I find it unlikely that Mr A wouldve kept the 
packaged account until 2010, if it was the case that he didnt know what it was he was 
paying for.
I note that Mr A applied for a loan of £10,000 a few months after agreeing to the account. 
And at the time, one of the benefits it provided was a reduced interest rate on personal 
loans. As such, I think its just as likely that Mr A was told about this benefit (alongside the 
others on the account) and he agreed to take out the Advantage Gold account because he 
thought he might be able to make use of the benefits.
Due to how long ago the account was sold, there is a lack of evidence from the time about 
what was discussed with Mr A. So I accept its possible that Mr A might not have been given 
all of the important information he shouldve been given during the sale. But having said that, 
Ive not seen anything about Mr As circumstances at the time that makes me think that he 
wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had he been given even more 
information about it. 
I say this because at the time, the bulk of the benefits provided by the account were banking 
benefits (e.g. reduced interest rates on mortgages, overdrafts and loans) and discounts on 
various other products. The account provided very few insurance products, with travel 
insurance being the main insurance product at the time (and even then, the travel insurance 
only operated if the trip was paid for with a Gold Visa card). And Mr A has told us that he 
didnt travel abroad at the time. So I doubt he wouldve been put off from agreeing to the 
account, had he been given more information about the travel insurance terms and 
conditions during the sale of the account.
As such, when weighing everything up, Ive not seen enough evidence to be able to 
conclude that the account was likely to have been mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman