DRN-2936873
The complaint
Miss W complains about the delays and service she experienced, when making a claim 
under her motor insurance policy with Advantage Insurance Company Limited. 
  
What happened
 Miss Ws car was involved in an incident in December 2019. Miss W says she took the car 
to the approved repairer as she was told it would be a quicker process. She was provided 
with a hire car and elected to pay an extra daily surcharge to have a vehicle with a child 
seat. 
A month later in the middle of January 2020, and after receiving several text messages from 
the approved repairer explaining the repairs had been delayed, Miss W complained to 
Advantage. She was told she could keep the courtesy car for as long as the repairs took and 
a few days later she received her car back. 
However, Miss W was not happy with the standard of repairs and the car went back to the 
approved repairer. Advantage wrote to Miss W and apologised for the service she had 
received and compensated her with £120. 
Miss W says further repairs were needed on at least two more occasions. When the 
complaint came to this service a further £130 compensation was offered and £300 was paid 
to Miss W for the car seat surcharge. However, Miss W remained unhappy with the service 
she had received and was still not happy with the quality of repairs carried out. 
The investigator thought that Advantage should have done more to put things right. He 
suggested compensation should be £400 instead of the £250 that was offered. However, he 
didnt agree with the opinion of a previous investigator that Advantage should pay for any 
further repair costs or reimburse the courtesy car upgrade cost and additional insurance 
protection. He also didnt think Miss W should be compensated further for the loss of use of 
her car during this time. 
Whilst Advantage agreed to increase the compensation offered to £400, Miss W remained 
unhappy with the opinion of the investigator. She said that it wasnt adequate compensation 
for the time taken. She also said that she wasnt offered a courtesy car that fitted a car seat 
in the back and wasnt willing to pay for another independent engineer. 
As she remains unhappy, its now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Miss W that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I wont be asking Advantage to do anything more than he has suggested to put 
things right. Ill explain why. 
Miss W remains unhappy with the repairs carried out to her car and has said that there are 
further issues that have now come to light. The car and repairs were assessed by an 
independent engineer in July and October 2020. They concluded that all required work had 
been done. 
I understand Miss W believes that more work is needed and doesnt feel that she should 
have to pay for a report to show there are new issues that relate to the previous damage and 
repairs. However, I dont believe there is sufficient evidence to conclude that Advantage 
need to carry out any more work to her car. 
Miss Ws policy states that she is entitled to a courtesy car and Advantage agreed that it 
could be for the duration of time that it took to repair her car. The policy terms and conditions 
state that it will usually be a group A vehicle, such as a ford Ka. Miss W was initially offered 
a Toyota Aygo which she says wasnt able to fit her car seat and so she paid a £5 daily cost 
to upgrade the car. She has asked for this amount to be reimbursed. However, I dont agree 
that Advantage need to do that. 
I believe they provided a car that was in line with what the policy provided for. It was her 
decision to upgrade this at a cost, although I appreciate that she didnt envisage and wasnt 
at fault for the length of time this took. This also impacted on the amount she elected to pay 
as an additional insurance protection with the courtesy car company. However, again, whilst 
the repairs took too long. I cant ask Advantage to reimburse costs that Miss W chose to pay 
and possibly could have stopped paying when the repairs werent completed as expected. 
Advantage has agreed to the investigators recommendation of a total of £400 compensation 
and I agree that this is fair in the circumstances. I understand that despite having a courtesy 
car, these delays and unsatisfactory repairs caused considerable hassle and stress for   
Miss W. She was in effect without her car for the best part of a year.  However, I think £400 
fairly reflects the inconvenience of this. 
Putting things right
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Miss W. But, for the reasons set out above, I 
require Advantage to pay Miss W £400 to resolve this complaint. My decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve Miss Ws dispute with Advantage  can do for her.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, my final decision is that Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited should pay a total of £400 compensation, to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman