DRN-1705451
The complaint
Miss M complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds service when she claimed on her private 
medical insurance.
Miss M will note that my decision is about a BUPA business with a slightly different name to 
the one referred to by our investigator (which administers the policy on BUPA Insurance 
Limiteds behalf). BUPA Insurance Limited is the right business for my decision to be about 
and Ill refer to it as BUPA in this decision. The change of business hasnt made any 
difference to the outcome of my decision. My references to BUPA include its agents.
What happened
Miss M contacted BUPA about an urgent mental health problem to try to get help under her 
private medical insurance. Miss M has told us some details about her very sensitive personal 
situation which led to her making a claim.
Miss M complains about BUPAs service. In particular she says:
the BUPA mental health clinician who phoned her to do a question and answer 
session seemed to be working from a crib sheet and at the end of the call, which 
Miss M found extremely upsetting, the clinician finished the call by wishing Miss M 'a 
nice day which was completely inappropriate
the clinician recommended that Miss M see a psychotherapist. Miss M thought she 
needed a different type of referral and she says it was only after upsetting phone 
calls that BUPA agreed. It was only then that BUPA told her the cover limit for 
psychologist fees was £500 and the claim excess was £500. So Miss M thought 
there was no point in pursuing the claim
BUPA told her she could see a psychiatrist, which would be covered under the policy, 
less the £500 excess. Miss M said she was so distressed by BUPAs poor service 
she told it she wouldnt be making a claim and she complained
BUPA sent a generic letter about the complaint addressed to her but about another 
person
she asked BUPA that any note showing she wanted to be referred to a psychiatrist 
be removed from her medical records but it hadnt responded 
BUPA sometimes ignored her permission for her mother to act on her behalf
BUPAs service made her issues worse and shed sought help independently
BUPA accepted some of its service was poor and paid £50 compensation for her 
distress and inconvenience, which she neither accepted or declined. She said shed 
stressed that she wasn't interested in financial recompense but wanted to ensure 
BUPA didnt give the same service, which she said was callous and unprofessional, 
to someone else.
Miss M wants BUPA to improve its service, contribute to the costs shes had and/or if she 
decides to continue with the policy for BUPA to talk to her about more comprehensive cover 
for a reduced premium.
BUPA said:
it didnt have a recording of Miss Ms call with its mental health clinician but it 
accepted its clinicians comment was inappropriate. It apologised and said it had fed 
back to the clinician
the clinician was asked to reconsider her recommendation but based on Miss Ms 
symptoms she maintained her recommendation. BUPAs advisers Miss M spoke to  
werent medically trained and couldnt overturn a clinicians recommendation. It had 
told Miss M that to change the referral she could either speak with her GP or attend a 
walk-in centre to get a new referral 
the policy limits and excess were detailed in the policy documents. But it accepted 
the policy limits and implications should have been explained to Miss M at the start of 
the process to help her when speaking to her GP to ask for a different referral
Miss Ms mother wasnt initially given the policy information because it didnt have 
Miss Ms permission to discuss the issue. It didnt fully agree with Miss M about when 
she gave permission to speak to her mother. But it accepted it missed an opportunity 
to get Miss Ms permission and hadnt correctly recorded the permission she gave on 
another call. It said it would feedback to its representative
it accepted its generic holding response letter to Miss Ms complaint shouldnt have 
contained the letter for another policyholder. It took the matter very seriously and had 
fed back to its distributor
as Miss M didnt pursue her requested referral to a psychiatrist it had removed the 
authorisation from her policy. But it couldnt remove the notes of her request on her 
policy because it needed accurate records
it apologised if Miss M was unhappy that it had sent her compensation and said the 
£50 was a gesture for Miss M and her mothers time spent speaking with it on the 
matter, which wouldnt have been needed if it had given better service.
Our investigator recommended that BUPA increase its compensation payment to £150 in 
total for Miss Ms distress and inconvenience due to its poor service.  He thought BUPA 
acted reasonably in relying on its clinicians medical opinion about the referral Miss M 
needed and BUPA didnt need to remove reference to Miss Ms request for a psychiatrist 
referral from the policy records.
Neither party agreed with our investigators recommendation and both wanted an 
ombudsmans decision.
Miss M said she disputed that the clinician was a medical expert as an expert wouldnt have 
dealt with her call in such a way, wouldnt have lost the call recording and would have been 
open to reviewing the recommendation but theyd lost the recording to help with any review. 
She also queried why BUPA was so concerned to keep accurate records given it had lost 
the call recording. She said BUPA acted very unprofessionally and we hadnt fully 
understood how much worse its service made her feel.BUPA said its £50 compensation offer was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I partly uphold this complaint. I think BUPA gave Miss M very poor service in many of the 
aspects shes raised. Im sorry to read about the circumstances that led to Miss M making a 
claim and I dont doubt the service BUPA gave added to her distress. However, I cant award 
the outcomes she wants to achieve. Ill explain why.
Miss M wants BUPA to improve its service so other policyholders dont have the experience  
she had. But my role is to decide whether BUPAs actions with Miss M were fair and 
reasonable, or not. I dont have any statutory power to tell a business that it must change its 
business processes. So for example I cant tell an insurer that its mental health clinician cant 
use crib sheet standard questions to assess policyholders claims or tell it which of its staff 
handling a claim must be medically trained, even if I thought the existing process needed to 
change. My findings are about matters on which I can decide.
Miss M is understandably frustrated that BUPA lost the relevant call recording and that we 
cant listen to a call which she says is pivotal to her complaint. But I dont think her complaint 
is disadvantaged by the calls absence as BUPA doesnt dispute what Miss M says 
happened in the call and I accept what she says. The clinicians comment to end the call 
was wholly inappropriate in Miss Ms circumstances and appeared insensitive. BUPA has 
apologised and said it would feedback to the clinician, which I think are reasonable actions 
for it to take and should reduce the possibility of the issue happening again.
Miss M didnt agree with BUPAs mental health clinicians recommended referral for 
treatment and found it very stressful trying to get BUPA to change the referral. BUPA asked 
the clinician to review the recommendation which was fair and Im satisfied that it acted 
reasonably in relying on the clinicians medical recommendation. BUPA told Miss M its 
process about how she could change the referral, although its notes show two days later, 
after further representations from Miss M, BUPA agreed to her request to change the 
referral, outside of its usual process. Two days would have seemed a long time to Miss M 
but given the steps it took I think BUPA acted within a reasonable timescale.
Miss M queries whether the clinician had medical expertise. BUPA says the clinician was a 
qualified health care professional, which Ive no reason to doubt. BUPAs clarified that its 
front-line advisers arent medically qualified. 
The policy limits for different services and the claim excess are detailed in the policy 
documents. But BUPA should have still reasonably highlighted the information to Miss M 
sooner than it did, which it accepts. As the £500 policy limit didnt apply to a referral to a 
psychiatrist that didnt necessarily mean it was pointless for Miss M to make a claim, it would 
depend on the psychiatrists fees.
BUPA accepts it missed opportunities to get and properly record Miss Ms permission to 
speak to her mother. Miss M was inconvenienced by that oversight as it appears from 
BUPAs records some of its representatives did speak to her mother and it would have been 
confusing when BUPA said it didnt have the necessary permission.
BUPA knows it shouldnt have sent Miss M a letter intended for another person, even if the 
letter was generic. Its fed back to its distributor to try to prevent that happening again, as 
was reasonable. Ive seen no evidence that Miss Ms personal information was passed on inappropriately. But BUPAs agents error would have added to Miss Ms concerns about 
BUPA.
BUPAs response time to Miss Ms complaint has been mentioned in the parties 
communication. Under the relevant rules a business should respond to a complaint within 
eight weeks and BUPAs final response letter was within that time.
BUPA doesnt control Miss Ms medical records so I think shes asking that any reference to 
her wanting to see a psychiatrist is removed from BUPAs records. Im satisfied that BUPA 
reasonably said it wouldnt remove the notes of her request on her policy as it needs to keep 
accurate records. BUPAs confirmed the information wont be shared with any third party 
without Miss Ms consent and she could request the information anytime. The fact that BUPA 
doesnt have the recording of the call Miss M complained about doesnt mean it should 
change accurate records it does have. BUPAs error is not having the call recording, and Ive 
explained the impact of that error.
Miss M says how BUPA dealt with her made her issues worse and although Ive no medical 
evidence to support that I accept its probable. Miss M called BUPA to get help through her 
policy at a very difficult time for her and instead she had to deal with BUPAs poor service 
and its effect. BUPAs offer of £50 doesnt reflect the level of upset and inconvenience it 
caused Miss M at an already very distressing time. Although Miss M says shes not 
interested in financial recompense I see no reason why BUPA shouldnt pay her £150 
compensation in total for the distress and inconvenience its unreasonable service caused, 
as our investigator recommended. I notes its paid £50.
Miss M says she sought medical help independently and wants BUPA to contribute to the 
cost. But although Miss M was distressed at BUPAs service her decision not to claim on the 
policy doesnt mean BUPA should pay the medical costs she incurred.
Im not able to require BUPA to speak to Miss M about more comprehensive policy cover 
and/or a reduced premium if she chooses to continue with the policy. Thats a commercial 
decision for BUPA and not something I can require it to do.
Putting things right
BUPA must pay Miss M £150 compensation in total for her distress and inconvenience 
caused by its poor service. 
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint. I require BUPA Insurance Limited to pay Miss M £150 
compensation in total for her distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman