DRN-4021637
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax changed the account 
name on their joint account and this resulted in a cheque paid into the account rejected.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M paid a cheque into their local Halifax branch using the immediate deposit 
machine (IDM). The cheque was rejected because it didnt have the same name for Mrs M 
that was recorked on Halifaxs system held. Mr M and Mrs M complained to Halifax. Halifax 
upheld the complaint and accepted that the error in the account name on its system was 
more likely than not caused by human error. Halifax apologised to Mr M and Mrs M, 
confirmed it had corrected the error, and paid Mr M and Mrs M £200 for the inconvenience 
the error had caused.
Mr M and Mrs M brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought the apology and explanation 
provided by Halifax, along with a payment of £200 for the inconvenience the rejected cheque 
caused Mr M and Mrs M, was a fair and reasonable resolution to the complaint. Mr M and 
Mrs M asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr M and Mrs M will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons 
as the Investigator Ive decided that the £200 Halifax has already paid them in respect of this 
complaint is a fair and reasonable remedy. I will now explain why.
Halifax accepts it made a mistake when it deleted Mrs Ms first name on the account, so I 
dont need to make a decision on the merits of the complaint  instead I have to consider 
whether the remedy Halifax has already carried out is a fair and reasonable one.
Halifax carried out an investigation and cant pinpoint which member of staff changed the 
account name, but it believes it was more likely than not a human error  caused by a 
member of its staff when Mrs M opened a new account in January 2022. I understand that 
Mrs M wants a full explanation of what happened, but from the system notes Halifax has 
provided Im satisfied the explanation it provided in the final response letter dated 10 
January 2023 is a reasonable one. I acknowledge that Mrs M will be disappointed, but Im 
not able to tell Halifax to provide an alternative explanation as there is no other evidence that 
shows me precisely what happened.
The IDM rejected the cheque because of Halifaxs error. Halifax says a cheque cannot be re-
presented once it has been rejected by the IDM. Again, I appreciate this will be disappointing 
to Mrs M, but Halifax has confirmed this is done to protect customers from fraud. This meant 
that Mr M and Mrs M had to contact the payer and ask for the cheque to be re-issued. 
In this case Halifax corrected the error promptly and provided a reasonable explanation to 
Mr M and Mrs M about what is likely to have happened. I think the error caused Mr M and 
Mrs M some frustration and they wouldve been shocked and disappointed that a cheque 
made out in the correct name had been rejected by the IDM. I also think Mr M and Mrs M 
wouldve have been inconvenienced by having to contact the payer to obtain a new cheque, 
or to make alternative arrangements to receive the funds they were due. This inconvenience 
wouldve been for a few days, or a few weeks at most. So, I think the payment of £200 
Halifax has already made to Mr M and Mrs M, and the explanation and apology it provided, 
is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive detailed above, I wont be asking Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman