DRN-3720454
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, charged a cash 
transfer fee to his credit account when he used his credit card to pay for a survey. 
What happened
Mr K used his Tesco credit card to pay for a survey. Later, when he reviewed his Tesco 
account, he noticed Tesco had charged a cash transfer fee for that survey. Mr K wasnt 
happy about this, because there hadnt been any cash transfer, so he raised a complaint.
Tesco looked at Mr Ks complaint. They explained the merchant who conducted the survey 
had supplied a particular Merchant Category Code which had indicated to Tesco that a cash 
transfer fee should be applied. So, Tesco didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly by applying the 
fee as they had. 
However, Tesco agreed that the explanation given by Mr K  that the transaction was for the 
purchase of a survey  meant that the application of the fee wasnt fair in this instance. So, 
they reimbursed the fee amount back to Mr Ks account. Mr K wasnt satisfied that Tesco 
hadnt acknowledged any mistake on their part, or compensated him for what had happened, 
so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Tescos response to Mr 
Ks complaint, including the explanation given and the reimbursement of the fee, already 
represented a fair and reasonable outcome to what had taken place. Mr K remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr K would be upset that his account was charged a cash transfer fee 
when the transaction that incurred the fee was a payment using his credit card for a survey, 
which therefore didnt involve any transfer of a cash balance to that merchant.
Tesco have explained that merchants all have a Merchant Category Code (MCC), and that 
the MCC is provided to Tesco when a transaction is undertaken to inform Tesco what type of 
company the merchant is and whether any specific fees should be applied.
In this instance, the merchant that Mr K paid for the survey has an MCC which indicates that 
theyre primarily a broker and dealer of investments. A usual transaction to such a company 
would involve the transfer of a cash balance, meaning that a cash transfer fee should be 
applied. And it was this reason  the receipt of an MCC which indicated that a cash transfer 
fee should be applied  that Tesco charged a cash transfer fee to Mr Ks account. And this 
explanation seems reasonable to me.
It also must be acknowledged that Tesco themselves dont have any say in what MCC a 
merchant provides. Instead, a merchants MCC is decided upon by agreement between the 
merchant and the card provider  the company whose symbol is on the credit card. As such, 
Tescos role here in regard to the MCC is passive, in that Tesco receive the MCC and apply 
any relevant action to the account, including charges, as mandated by that MCC.
All of which means that I dont feel that Tesco acted unfairly towards Mr K by applying the 
cash transfer fee to his account as they did. This is because, as explained, the application of 
the fee was warranted in regard to the MCC that Tesco received from the merchant.
However, while the merchants MCC indicated that a cash transfer fee should be applied, its 
clear in this instance that Mr Ks specific transaction with the merchant  the purchase of a 
survey  didnt involve any cash transfer and so shouldnt incur a fee. So, it would seem fair 
to me that having been informed by Mr K that the cash transfer fee wasnt legitimately 
applicable in this specific instance, despite the MCC, that Tesco would reimburse that fee 
amount back to Mr Ks account. 
This is exactly what Tesco have done. And I dont feel that they fairly should be asked or 
instructed to do anything more than this. This is because Im satisfied that Tesco didnt act 
unfairly by applying the cash transfer fee in light of the MCC they received, and that Tesco 
have reimbursed the fee having been informed of the actual nature of the transaction. 
Finally, given that Im satisfied that Tesco havent made any form of mistake here, and also 
that theyve already resolved this matter fairly, Im also satisfied that Tesco shouldnt fairly or  
reasonably be asked or instructed to compensate Mr K as Mr K would like.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr K was wanting, but it follows from the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Tesco to take any further action. I trust that 
Mr K will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman