DRN-1110697
 
The complaint
Mr K and Miss B complain that a payment made to Azimo Ltd using a credit card was 
charged as a cash advance, which meant a fee was incurred that they didn't expect.
What happened
Mr K and Miss B used Azimo to transfer money abroad to be paid directly into the account of 
a company as a payment for its services. Miss B used her credit card to make the payment.
But she then found that she was charged a cash advance fee on her credit card account of 
£183 for the money she'd transferred. She complained to Azimo that she hadn't been 
warned or told about this. She said her credit card provider had said Azimo had 'labelled' the 
transaction as a cash advance which has a 5% charge. She felt this was Azimo's 
responsibility as her credit card provider had been acting on the information from Azimo. So 
she asked Azimo to reimburse this cost.
Azimo said that the fee had been charged by Miss B's credit card provider so she should 
take up any dispute with it. Azimo said it has no say on how the provider would see or label 
the payments used on its platform, and all of its card payments are debited in the same way. 
It doesn't charge for using a debit or credit card but it can't tell its customers whether their 
bank or card provider may apply a charge, as it wouldn't know this.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. She said 
that Azimo had information on its website under the section 'fees and payment method' 
which said: "In case of a SWIFT transfer, we are not liable for any additional fees that the 
banks (either on the sending or receiving side) may charge." She asked Azimo whether this 
information would've been available to Miss B when she used Azimo, and it said it had been. 
But the investigator said Azimo was looking to review the information it gives relating to fees 
charged by credit card providers. The investigator said Azimo wasn't responsible for the 
charge applied on Miss B's credit card.
Miss B didn't accept the investigator's findings and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. 
She said Azimo's confirmation that it would review the information on its website suggests 
that it was aware that the information it did give wasn't easily accessible and it couldn't hide 
behind terms buried in the small print, expecting customers to search for them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand the point that Miss B has made - that she sees a cash advance as being 
like a withdrawal using her credit card in an ATM. And her transaction clearly wasn't like that. 
She was transferring money to a company to pay for its services. A cash advance on a credit card is a way of converting a credit limit into a cash amount, and 
that's what happened here. Miss B was transferring money into the company's bank account 
directly for it to be able to access this as cash, rather than using a merchant payment service 
for that company to take its payment. So I don't think Azimo was at fault for Miss B incurring 
a charge for using her credit card for this transaction.
But I agree that the information Azimo gives on its website could be clearer to set out that, if 
paying by credit card, the provider of the card may charge a cash advance fee. It has 
acknowledged this and apologised for the inconvenience Miss B was caused. And it has told 
us it will be reviewing the information it gives about the possibility of additional fees applied 
by credit card providers. That said, I do think it's terms and conditions give an indication to 
alert a customer that there is the potential for fees to be added or incurred other than those 
charged by Azimo when completing a transfer.
Overall, the payment was made to the company's account as Miss B wanted. I don't think 
Azimo should be required to reimburse the fee Miss B's credit card provider charged her. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2019.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman