DRN-4224331
The complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Ltd unfairly closed his bank account. 
Mr A is represented in this complaint by his mother, Mrs A. For ease I will refer to all 
submissions as if made directly by Mr A.
What happened
Mr A had an account with NatWest. 
In May 2022, a payment of just under £1,900  was made into Mr As account. Most of the 
money was immediately spent via card payments and a cash withdrawal. Following this, 
NatWest were contacted by another bank who reported that their customer had been the 
victim of scam and that the payment had been made fraudulently.
NatWest blocked Mr As account and decided it needed to look into how Mr A was operating 
his account. Following its review, it decided to close Mr As account and wrote to him on 15 
June 2022 giving him 14 days notice to make alternative banking arrangements. Mr A was 
upset and confused by the letter. And remembers that he had tried to show his mother 
something to do with his account, but before he could give her any more details Mr As 
access to his bank account was removed. 
Mr A complained to the bank and asked for an explanation for why it had closed his account. 
He pointed out that he had been a customer of the bank for a long time and that he was  
young. He said that since the account had been closed another bank account, he had had 
also been closed so he suspected that NatWest had placed a marker against his name, 
which had blacklisted him from opening other accounts. NatWest looked into Mr As 
complaint but said it hadnt done anything wrong when it had closed the account. NatWest 
also said that where an account had been closed for suspected fraudulent activity it may 
place markers against a customer, but on this occasion it hadnt done so. 
Unhappy with this response Mr A brought his complaint to our service. He said that whatever 
happened with the account had nothing to do with him, and at the time he was a minor and 
confused by the banks actions. He also said that NatWest discriminated against him due to 
his surname and treated him unfairly in taking the actions it did. He wants NatWest to 
apologise and confirm that he hasnt been blacklisted.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As complaint. He didnt think NatWest had done 
anything wrong when it had closed Mr As account and explained that the bank didnt have to 
provide an explanation for why it no longer wanted Mr A as a customer. He also confirmed 
that NatWest hadnt recorded any external markers against Mr As name. Mr A disagreed. 
He said he wants a proper explanation for why the bank closed his account and maintains 
that NatWest has treated him unfairly.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint came to me to decide. Prior to issuing my 
decision I asked the investigator to get some more information from Mr A about how he was 
using his account. In particular I asked what he knew about the fraudulent funds that were 
paid into his account, whether he had given/shared his bank card, PIN, and online banking 
details with anyone else. Mr A responded and said:
That the funds had mysteriously appeared in his account, and he had raised this with 
Mrs A. But as he was completing his exams it wasnt taken much further as it was a 
busy time.
Mr A hadnt shared/given his bank card or PIN to anyone else.
He hadnt reported the bank card as lost or stolen. Although he can no longer find the 
card. But it has been a while since the account closed
His account appears to have been compromised by fraudsters
On 10 May 2023, I issued a provisional decision in which I said the following:
Mr A says NatWest shouldnt have closed his account. In his complaint form, which was 
submitted online to this service, Mr A said that whatever happened with his account had 
nothing to do with him. And more recently has suggested that his account had been 
compromised by fraudsters. So, I need to consider whether NatWest have treated Mr A fairly 
and reasonably when it closed his account. Having looked at all the information provided Im 
currently minded to say that they have. I say this because:
Ive seen evidence from NatWest showing that another bank notified them that Mr A 
received a fraudulent payment into his account in May 2022. The payment was for a 
total of just under £1,900 and was paid into Mr As account via bank transfer. At the 
time the balance of Mr As account was just over £12.00 and up until this point had 
been mainly funded by transfers from Mrs A and maintained a balance of less than 
£100.00. So, this payment was out of character for the usual activity on the account.
NatWest has provided evidence to show that the money was spent immediately via 
several card payments and a cash withdrawal for £250. All of the transactions were 
carried out using Mr As bank card and PIN. 
Mr A has confirmed that he hadnt lost his bank card or reported it stolen at the time. 
Hes also said that he hadnt shared his PIN with anyone else. So, theres no 
plausible explanation for how an unknown third party would be able to gain 
possession of Mr As bank card and PIN. And then carry out the transactions. I think 
its extremely unlikely that a fraudster would take Mr As card, guess his PIN 
correctly, spend on the card, then return the card to Mr A, without him being alerted
So, I think its more likely than not that either Mr A was responsible for spending the 
fraudulent funds or allowed someone else to use his account and bank card to 
access the funds.
Mr A has said that the fraudulent funds mysteriously appeared in his account. But 
Mr A hasnt been able to offer any explanation for how the fraudster was able to 
obtain his bank account details, which were needed to pay in the fraudulent funds. I 
think its unlikely that an unknown third party without any connection to Mr A wouldve 
been able to do this. I also think its most unlikely that an unknown third party would 
pay funds into Mr As account unless they were confident that they would be able to 
withdraw the money or transfer the funds to another account from which they could 
withdraw it. So, taken together this all suggests to me that Mr A knows rather more 
about the fraudulent activity on his account than hes been prepared to tell us or his 
mother. 
If Mr A had been the unwitting beneficiary of fraudulent funds, as he has suggested, I wouldve expected him to alert NatWest at the time in order that his account could be 
safeguarded against fraud. But I havent seen that he did so.
Ive considered what Mr A has said about his age at the time and that he was a 
minor. But Mr A hasnt described being placed under any duress or being especially 
vulnerable. In my view I think its most likely he allowed his NatWest account to be 
used for receiving fraudulent funds. 
The adjudicator has already confirmed that NatWest have not placed any external markers 
against Mr As name. I know Mr A has said he has had another account closed, but I cant 
comment on the actions of another bank. 
Ive next looked at NatWests decision to close Mr As account. Banks are entitled to end 
their business relationship with a customer, as long as its done fairly and is in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. The terms and conditions of Mr As account say that 
NatWest can close an account in certain circumstances immediately and with notice. 
NatWest wrote to Mr A and gave him 14 days notice that it intended to close his account. 
Given the concerns NatWest had about how Mr A was operating his account, I dont think 
thats unreasonable. So, it was entitled to close the account as its already done, and I cant 
say NatWest has treated Mr A unfairly. 
I understand that Mr A wants NatWest to explain the reason it closed his account. And I can 
see that Mr A asked NatWest to explain itself on several occasions. But NatWest is under no 
obligation to tell Mr A the reasons behind the account review and closure, as much as hed 
like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr A this information. And 
it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so. Having said that, from looking at the 
final response letter NatWest sent to Mr A, it states that the account had been closed due to 
suspected fraudulent activity. So, I think its likely Mr A had some idea of the basis for the 
banks actions.
Finally, Mr A has said that he feels NatWest discriminated against him on the basis of his 
surname when they closed his account. While I can appreciate this is his perspective, it is 
not my role to decide whether discrimination has taken place  only the courts have the 
power to decide this. I have, however, considered the relevant law in relation to what Mr A 
has said when deciding what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome. Part of this has 
meant considering the provisions of The Equality Act 2010 (The Act). And after looking at all 
the evidence, Ive not seen anything to suggest that this was the case. So, I havent found 
that NatWest decided to close the account for an improper reason.
In summary, its clearly caused Mr A trouble and upset when NatWest closed his account. 
And I appreciate it must have been a worrying time for him. So, I realise he will be 
disappointed by my decision. But having looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this 
complaint, I cant say NatWest has treated Mr A unfairly when it decided to close his 
account.
NatWest accepted my provisional decision. Mr A didnt. In summary he said:
He wasnt provided an explanation from NatWest about why his account was closed 
and the bank treated him unfairly when it closed his account
NatWest never contacted him about the activity on his account  he doesnt 
remember receiving any text message from NatWest
He can be careless with his bank card but doesnt think he lost it. Had he been 
contacted by NatWest he could have looked into what was happening with his 
account and offered an explanation. But he wasnt given a chance to do this because NatWest removed his access to the banking app, and closed his account
He hasnt acted fraudulently and was busy completing his exams 
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr A has highlighted a number of concerns, which Ill 
now address below.
I know Mr A wants to be provided with a detailed explanation for why NatWest closed his 
account. Im afraid there is little that I can add to what Ive already said in my provisional 
decision. NatWest isnt obliged to provide Mr A with an explanation as much as hed like to 
know. So I cant say it has treated Mr A unfairly by not giving him this information.
NatWest closed Mr As account by providing him 14 days notice, to find alternative banking 
facilities. Having read NatWest terms and conditions for its personal account customers, this 
is in line with what it has set out and what Mr A agreed to when opening the account.  
NatWest had received information from another bank that give it reason to believe the 
account was at risk  it was being used for fraudulent purposes. So, I think it was fair that it 
mitigated that risk by closing the account. I also think it fair that it provided Mr A 14 days 
notice despite its terms and conditions setting out that it could close the account 
immediately. 
Mr A has reiterated that he wasnt given an opportunity to explain the activity on his account. 
And that before he could do anything the bank took away the access to his banking app and 
had decided to close his account. But I can see from looking at bank records that the bank 
did send Mr A text message asking him to get in touch about the activity on his account. 
NatWest say Mr A didnt respond. Ive asked Mr A about this, but hes said he cant recall 
any text messages from the bank. Hes also said at the time he was busy with his exams, 
and he was quite confused about why the bank had closed his account. That maybe so, but 
Im satisfied that NatWest did give Mr A an opportunity to speak to them before his account 
was closed. 
In summary, I appreciate that Mr A will be disappointed by my decision, but I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional findings. I remain of the view that this complaint should not be 
upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are repeated above and 
form part of this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman