DRN-1870297
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint is mainly that Court Ross Financial Management Limited (Court 
Ross) applied ongoing charges to their investments without their prior knowledge or 
consent; and that Court Ross did not provide a service to justify the ongoing charges. Mr F 
leads the complaint.
What happened
Court Ross provided documentation related to Mr and Mrs Fs respective accounts. They 
included:
A copy of the 2014 Client Agreement signed by Mr and Mrs F.
Pension, Individual Savings Account (ISA) and portfolio reports for Mr F between 
2014 and 2018; pension and portfolio reports for Mrs F between the same period; 
and accompanying letters.
Signed declarations related to the platform provider (for the investment accounts) 
and to fee payment authorisations. 
Review letters from 2016.
Its response to the complaint in 2019.
Court Ross position is that the documentation submitted shows Mr and Mrs Fs agreement 
to a two stage fee structure  first, a lump sum payment for its initial advice and 
implementation of the relevant arrangements; then an ongoing fee for its ongoing 
management service (annual reviews, portfolio updates/valuations/reports and meetings) for 
their accounts (featuring Mr Fs pension and ISA, and Mrs Fs pension). 
Court Ross says this fee structure was agreed in the signed client agreement; that signed 
authority from Mr and Mrs F was given to the platform provider to pay its ongoing fee; and 
that all the portfolio reports and platform statements sent to them expressly confirmed 
deductions of its ongoing/advice fees. It submits that the ongoing charges Mr and Mrs F 
have complained about were agreed by them at the outset, that payment of the charges 
(from the platform holding the investment accounts) were subsequently authorised by them 
and that the same charges were explicitly stated in reports and statements they received; so 
they could not have been unaware of them; and it delivered the management service 
(reviews, portfolio reports and meetings with Mr and Mrs F) for the fees it received.
One of our investigators looked into the matter, broadly agreed with Court Ross 
submissions (and evidence) and concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. Mr F 
disagreed with this outcome. He says the ongoing fees (in particular, their deductions from 
their investments) was neither wanted by him (and Mrs F) nor highlighted (by Court Ross) at 
the outset and because Court Ross was paid a lump sum for its advice, ongoing advice fees 
were not expected. He also says that meetings with Court Ross did not occur regularly, that 
they only happened upon his and Mrs F's requests and that Court Ross' recommendation of 
the particular platform provider now appears suspicious as its relationship with the provider 
might have aided deduction of the disputed fees without his (and Mrs F's) knowledge or 
consent.The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold the complaint. The main allegations that have been made are that Mr and 
Mrs F were not aware of and did not consent to the ongoing charges at the outset of their 
service arrangement with Court Ross; that they were not aware of the deduction of those 
charges from their investment accounts; and that Court Ross did not provide a service to 
justify its receipt of the deducted fees. None of the documentary evidence that has been 
submitted support these allegations and, on balance, I consider the same evidence sufficient 
to defeat the allegations. I have not seen evidence of collusion between Court Ross and the 
platform provider and, as noted below, remittance of fees from the platform/investment 
accounts to Court Ross appears to have been transparent.
The 2014 client agreement document is signed and dated by Mr and Mrs F directly below a 
declaration paragraph that has the effect of saying they read and understood the document - 
and their signatures confirm that they agreed with the document/agreement. I consider that 
they read and understood the contents of the agreement, or ought reasonably to have done 
that, so its contents are binding on them.
The agreement explained - in seemingly simple language - the separation between Court 
Ross' initial advice and implementation lump sum fee and its ongoing fee for 
its management service. The agreement explained that the latter was split further between a 
management service for accounts valued at £100,000 or more and a different management 
service for accounts valued below that level. Individually, Mr and Mrs F's accounts do not 
appear to have been valued at £100,000 or above.
The fee prescribed in the agreement for the relevant management service - for their account 
size - appears to be what was applied to Mr and Mrs F's accounts and the service is 
described as based mainly on the provision of annual financial planning and reports, portfolio 
updates/valuations and access to an adviser. Whilst the fees applied to the accounts were 
based on this service level the element of annual review meetings was a component of the 
higher service level - which had a higher fee rate. 
I understand Mr F's point about the annual meetings, however he (and Mrs F) did not pay 
the higher management service rate required in this respect. Nevertheless, there is evidence 
from Court Ross that meetings were within the service it sought to provide Mr and Mrs F and 
there is also evidence to suggest that this was a somewhat complimentary element of its 
service - in the context of the lower management fee rate - towards them. On balance, in this 
overall context and mindful of evidence that a number of such meetings took place between 
2014 and 2018, I am not persuaded that it makes a difference whether (or not) the meetings 
only took place upon requests or that Court Ross did anything meaningfully wrong in terms 
of the meetings. I am also satisfied that it provided the other elements (reports and 
valuations) of the service.
With all due respect to Mr and Mrs F, I do not consider it plausible that they were unaware of 
the aforementioned provisions in the client agreement, and/or that they were unaware of 
explicit references to the ongoing advice fees in the platform declarations they authorised, 
and/or that they were unaware of the explicit references to the ongoing advice fees in the 
portfolio reports and statements they received.I appreciate that use of the word "Adviser" in the description "Annual Adviser fees" (as 
expressed in the declarations) and in the description "Adviser charges" (as expressed in the 
portfolio statements) does not spell out an ongoing management charge, but I am satisfied 
that the meaning of these descriptions was known - or ought reasonably to have been 
known - to Mr and Mrs F. The fees were clearly annual (ongoing) in nature and they were 
being remitted to Court Ross (their adviser) for the management service they would have 
known it provided (given the review meetings and reports delivered by it). 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs F's complaint. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to accept or reject my 
decision before 25 June 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman