DRN-3973924
The complaint
Mr B complains that Curtis Banks Limited delayed an in-specie transfer between investment 
platforms in his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). He also complained about various 
issues relating to fees hes been charged and how they have been collected.
What happened
Curtis Banks initially offered Mr B £200 in compensation. They later raised this to £420. £300 
of this was offered for the delayed in-specie transfer and their poor communication during 
this time and a refund of £120 Mr B was charged for the transfer. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint in detail and thought the offer of £420 
was fair. Mr B accepted the investigators findings with exception of one particular issue. 
Its this point he wishes an ombudsman to consider and which this decision will deal with. I 
expect the rest of Mr Bs complaint to be settled by Curtis Banks paying Mr B the £420 they 
offered him and which he accepted after the investigators view.
The issue Mr B is still unhappy with is that he was sent a letter in December 2020 by Curtis 
Banks informing him his annual SIPP administration fee would increase by £140 to £720. 
However, he was charged £864 which is £720 plus VAT. 
Our investigator explained that the schedule of fees which formed part of Mr Bs terms and 
conditions for the SIPP clearly set out that VAT is added to all fees, so he was charged the 
correct amount.
Mr B said he cant recall having seen the terms and conditions and even if he did receive 
them when his account was opened in 2011, he wouldnt be able to remember what they 
said. He feels its unfair that consumers are expected to know the terms and conditions 
when Curtis Banks could have simply stated on the letter that VAT would be added.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the schedule of fees and like the investigator says it does explain that VAT is 
added to all fees. So Curtis Banks were entitled to charge Mr B the way they did. 
Mr B might not recall ever seeing the terms and conditions including this fee schedule, 
however in my view its more likely than not he did receive these documents when he 
opened his SIPP. Its also unusual that terms and conditions and fees dont change over a 
period of nine years, so its likely he also would have received updated terms at some point -
and likely at several points in time- between 2011 and 2020. 
In any event, the letter from Curtis Banks in December 2020 referred to the fee schedule. It 
said:
 A copy of the current fee schedule for your plan is on our website at 
www.curtisbanks.co.uk/literature and will be updated from 1 February to reflect the change.
So even if Mr B didnt recall the fee schedule, he was given information where to find it. 
Overall, I think Curtis Banks provided reasonable information to Mr B about his annual fee.
However, I do understand Mr Bs argument here that Curtis Banks letter could have been 
even clearer if the letter itself mentioned that VAT would be added to the quoted fees. So to 
improve clarity and transparency, I would suggest to Curtis Banks to consider adding 
information about VAT on fees to any letters they send to customers which relate to the 
change of fees.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint, but I ask Curtis Banks Limited to consider my suggestions 
as mentioned above for future correspondence with their customers 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2023.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman