DRN-3846684
The complaint
Mr S complains HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct (First Direct), didnt reimburse 
the money he lost when he was the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) vehicle 
purchase scam.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all
here. But briefly, both parties accept that Mr S was the victim of a vehicle purchase scam. 
Mr S was looking to purchase a motorhome for a family member who needed a place to live 
and fairly urgently. Mr S had never purchased a motorhome before and due to the urgency 
of the situation says he spent a couple of weeks looking. Mr S says had a budget of around 
£17,000 to £22,000. 
Mr S said he saw a website for a company  whom Ill refer to as Company M. Mr S has 
explained that Company M was one of the first websites to appear following an internet 
search. Mr S said the website appeared genuine and normal and had a decent number of 
motorhomes for sale. 
He saw a motorhome that was within his budget and explained that he had also looked 
online at other websites, and the websites and the motorhomes available and prices all 
seemed similar  considering age, condition and size. 
Mr S says he checked Companies House and Company M were listed, and he also saw they 
had a social media online presence that he said seemed friendly and useful.
Mr S contacted Company M about the motorhome he had seen. He says he received prompt 
communication from the seller (who was the director of the company) over email. An invoice 
was arranged with delivery for £19,000. Mr S paid the account details provided on the 
invoice. 
When Mr S made the payment, he received a Confirmation of Payee no match warning 
from First Direct. Mr S says he queried the account name with the seller who said it was fine 
and it was the correct account and that he had received payments that day.
Ultimately the seller didnt exist, and it was a fraudulent website that had been set up. So 
Mr S had been scammed and paid his funds to a fraudster for a motorhome that didnt exist.
Mr S, having realised hed been the victim of a scam contacted First Direct to report it and to 
see whether it could recover any of his funds.
First Direct logged the matter and reached out to the beneficiary bank (the bank where Mr S 
had sent his funds to) to see if any funds remained that could be recovered. Unfortunately no 
funds remained that could be recovered.
First Direct also considered whether Mr S should be reimbursed for his losses under the 
Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). The 
CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams 
in all but a limited number of circumstances. First Direct didnt agree that it was liable to 
reimburse Mr S for the funds he had sent and said one or more of those exceptions applied 
in this case. It said it didnt consider hed taken sufficient steps to verify who he was paying 
and that it had provided him with an effective warning.
Unhappy, Mr S referred his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators looked into 
Mr Ss complaint and thought it ought to be upheld. The investigator didnt believe 
First Direct had fairly assessed Mr Ss claim under the CRM Code. They didnt think that 
First Direct had provided an effective warning prior to Mr S making the payment. And they 
didnt agree that First Direct had been able to establish Mr S made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing he was making a legitimate purchase from a legitimate seller. 
The Investigator also considered the payment was out of character and unusual given Mr Ss 
account history and thought First Direct ought to have intervened to satisfy itself that Mr S 
wasnt at risk of financial harm, and it missed an opportunity to prevent the scam. 
The Investigator recommended First Direct reimburse Mr S the funds he lost to the scam 
and pay additional compensation at 8% simple interest per year on that amount from the 
date of the loss until the date of settlement.
First Direct disagreed with the Investigators opinion and maintained its position. As the 
matter hasnt been resolved, I have been asked to make a final decision on the outcome of 
Mr Ss complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, First Direct should have refunded the money 
Mr S lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case.
First Direct should in any event have intervened when Mr S was making the payment 
as the payment was unusual and out of character for Mr S and if it had done so, I am 
satisfied the fraud would have come to light and the loss prevented.
In the circumstances First Direct should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr S 
lost.
The money was taken from the Mr Ss current account. Mr S had cashed in an 
investment and had intended to use the money to purchase a motorhome. Mr S has 
therefore been deprived of the use of those funds. So First Direct should also pay 
interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year from the date 
Mr S made the payment until the date of settlement.As Ive said above, the CRM Code requires payment service providers to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams, in all but 
limited circumstances. If First Direct declines to reimburse its customer in full, it is for 
First Direct to establish that one, or more, of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code 
itself. Those exceptions are: 
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate; or
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning.
There are further exceptions within the CRM, but none of these are applicable here.
When assessing whether it can establish these things, a Firm must consider whether they 
would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam.
After having carefully considered all of First Directs submissions, Im satisfied that it has not 
shown that Mr S made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that he was 
paying a legitimate seller or ignored an effective scam warning. I will go on to explain why I 
have reached this finding.
Did Mr S have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
When considering this aspect, I am mindful that the test here is whether Mr S had a 
reasonable basis for belief when making the payment. 
Mr S carried out an internet search and Company M were one of the top searches. 
Importantly, Mr S hadnt been scammed before and didnt expect or want to be scammed. 
He wasnt aware that websites could be cloned or faked. Mr S saw a website selling motor 
homes and everything seemed legitimate, with Mr S advising that the website looked similar 
to other websites he had looked at. Company M were also listed on Companies House with 
the nature of its business described as Sale of other motor vehicles. The director of the 
company matched with whom Mr S was in communication with. 
To Mr Ss mind everything seemed legitimate and normal, and I can see why. There were no 
obvious warning signs that things may not be all as they seemed. This was a sophisticated 
scam  with the website appearing like others, with Company M having a fair amount of 
motorhomes available and at prices that werent dissimilar to other sellers / websites. Mr S 
says that around 25% (an estimate) of the motorhomes had a sale price, which he thought 
made sense given the time of year and it being the end of a holiday season. The price Mr S 
was paying also wasnt too good to be true which can often be a sign that something might 
not be right. 
Mr S also says Company M had an online social media presence which looked reassuring. 
And he received genuine looking communication through email from whom he thought was 
the director of the company and an invoice with logos of the company. So I can see why 
Mr S reasonably thought it was a legitimate website and company.I appreciate that Mr S received a no match Confirmation of Payee result when he made the 
payment  but I have to bear in mind that the name he had entered was not too dissimilar to 
that of Company M  and Mr S says the seller reassured him that it was the correct account 
details and that he had received payments into that account that day. Given Mr S genuinely 
thought it was a legitimate business I can see why he proceeded. And as Ive said above, 
there were no other major red flags that, coupled with a no match confirmation of payee 
warning, should have possibly put Mr S on alert that something wasnt right.
All things considered, I can see why Mr S thought he was dealing with a legitimate seller 
when making the payment. So Im not persuaded First Direct has shown that Mr S lacked a 
reasonable basis for belief when making the payments for it to choose not to reimburse Mr S 
under the terms of the CRM Code.
Did Mr S ignore an effective warning? 
First Direct say that Mr S chose the payment purpose as Making a large purchase (e.g. 
house or car) and was provided with a warning. In this case Im satisfied that the 
requirements of the effective warning exception were not met because:
The warning starts off by advising its customer to use a debit or credit card as it may 
offer more protection. But it isnt uncommon to use bank transfer as a method of 
payment for larger purchases. 
The warning then highlights email / invoice intercept scams and that account details 
can be altered. Here Mr S was liaising with whom he thought was a legitimate 
company (albeit it was a scammer) so I dont think this would have made Mr S pause 
for thought.
The warning then goes on to list some things that consumers could do to check 
matters. 
The first point advises to contact the person or company where the money is being 
sent. The second point advises to check the email address to ensure it is from the 
correct person. And the third point advises to check for any irregularities in an email 
invoice. While these steps are potentially useful to help identify an email / invoice 
scam, Im mindful that this wasnt the scam that Mr S was falling victim to. Here, Mr S 
was satisfied he was dealing with a legitimate company, so none of the steps 
First Direct recommended would have had made a difference here or had a material 
effect on preventing the scam.
The fourth and fifth bullet points are more relevant, but Im not satisfied they would 
have had a material effect on preventing the scam and overall the warning isnt an 
effective warning as set out by the CRM Code. With the fourth bullet point, 
First Direct advises to check the seller being mindful or false websites and reviews. 
But again, Mr S thought he was dealing with a legitimate company who sold motor 
homes  so I dont think this would have made Mr S stop and think. The warning here 
also doesnt give any possible steps Mr S could take to identify if a seller had falsified 
a website. 
The fifth bullet point suggests that for high value items such as a car  consumers 
should make sure they physically see it before sending money. I do acknowledge 
that this can often lead to a scam being uncovered, but it isnt always possible to see 
a vehicle before purchasing it  and in more recent times the purchasing of vehicles 
has expanded to include delivery. So I dont think Mr S acted unreasonably, 
especially when I consider that Mr S was purchasing a slightly more niche vehicle 
from what he thought was a company that specialised in selling motorhomes. Given the above, I dont think the warning First Direct provided meets the definition of an 
effective warning as set out by the CRM Code. And Im not satisfied that it can choose to 
decline reimbursement under this exception.  
Could First Direct have done more to prevent the scam?
I am also mindful that when Mr S made this payment, First Direct should fairly and 
reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud or financial harm.
The payment Mr S made was for a large amount and it was unusual and out of character for 
him. So, I think First Direct should have intervened and questioned Mr S about the payment 
further to ensure that he wasnt at risk of financial harm. 
Mr S isnt an expert in matters relating to fraud nor had experience in purchasing vehicles. 
So, had he been asked the purpose of the payment  for a motorhome, First Direct would 
have been in a position to provide him with what to look out for in relation to vehicle 
purchase scams. It could have stressed the importance of seeing the vehicle or obtaining 
further detailed information about the vehicle such as documents (which Mr S thought was 
arriving with the motorhome) prior to making payment. 
Importantly, I think that had Mr S been warned that fake companies and websites are set up 
and a common vehicle scam involves paying for a vehicle upfront with the promise for it to 
be delivered  and then for it not to arrive, Mr S would have taken steps to ensure he didnt 
fall victim to this type of scam. And I think it is reasonable to suggest that Mr S wouldnt have 
proceeded with the payment until he had carried out some further steps / checks and 
satisfied himself that everything was ok. So, I think an opportunity was missed by First Direct 
and the loss could have been prevented.
Overall I am satisfied that under the CRM Code, First Direct hasnt established any of the 
permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply. And I am also satisfied that First Direct could 
have done more to intervene on the payment which would have prevented the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ss
complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct. 
I therefore require HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct to pay Mr S:
The balance of the money lost through this scam, being the sum of £19,000 less any 
sums already reimbursed or otherwise refunded; and,
8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date of loss (the date 
the payment was made) until the date of settlement.
I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct to pay compensation, as set out above, 
within 28 days of receiving notification of Mr Ss acceptance of my final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman