DRN-1805469
The complaint
Mr H and Miss A, together with their children Mr A and Mr A, are unhappy with the service 
they received from Union Reiseversicherung AG.
What happened
Mr H and Miss A were on holiday in America when Mr Hs father sadly died. They were due 
to return on 14 July 2019. On 3 July 2019 Mr H contacted URV to ask about what his options 
were. He received a call back on 5 July 2019 and was given more information about what 
the policy covered during the two calls which took place on that day. 
On 6 July 2019 Mr H emailed to say that his mother had needed to put the funeral back. Mr 
H says, in summary, that his mother had to put the funeral back until the next available time 
on 17 July 2019 due to the uncertainty of Mr Hs situation. Mr H is unhappy with the overall 
service he received and the additional costs his mother incurred as a result. 
URV looked into Mr Hs complaint and apologised for the lack of communication. They 
offered £200 compensation for the service Mr H had received and acknowledged that this 
had left him in a position where he was undecided about whether he was covered to return 
home. Mr H didnt think this level of compensation was fair in the circumstances and made a 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think URV needed to do 
anything further to put things right. She acknowledged URV should have been able to 
explain to Mr H what his options were in the first call, and point him towards the policy 
documentation. But she thought the compensation fairly acknowledged the failings in the 
service URV provided and she didnt think it was fair to direct URV to cover any additional 
costs Mr Hs mother incurred as a result of the delay.  
Mr H didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said £200 didnt 
reflect the grief and worry caused. He explained that they went as far as looking into other 
insurance whilst they were away and it ruined the holiday of a lifetime. Finally, he explained 
that if hed have been given the right information when hed first called that hed have 
returned home and the funeral wouldnt have been put off. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im really sorry to hear that Mr Hs father died and I can appreciate how difficult and 
upsetting it was  particularly as he was abroad and a flight home would take several hours. 
I can understand why it was a stressful and upsetting time for him.  
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that URV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they should give a policyholder reasonable guidance when making a 
claim. 
Having listened to the calls Mr H made whilst he was in America, its clear that he was 
worried and stressed. I note that his partner was 18 weeks pregnant and he was travelling 
with two young children, one of whom hes told us has a disability. So, I can understand why 
he was anxious and worried when he didnt receive a prompt call back from URV. But I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to direct URV to increase the level of compensation for 
the reasons Ill go on to explain.  
I agree the call handler ought to have been able to give guidance to Mr H when he first 
called on the 3 July and that there was a delay in Mr H being given the right information. I 
also accept its possible that hed have decided to travel home straightaway had he received 
clearer guidance on what he was covered for. 
In the call on 5 July Mr H explained he wasnt sure about what was happening and had shut 
himself off from things. In an email on 6 July he explained the funeral had been put back. Its 
unclear why exactly the funeral was put back based on the evidence Ive been provided with 
and theres no supporting evidence to confirm the reasons for the delay. I dont doubt that 
the importance of Mr H attending was a significant factor. But I think its most likely that other 
factors were also involved, based on the evidence Ive seen, including the availability of 
funeral services during the relevant time. 
In any event, I dont think I can reasonably say that URV would be responsible for the costs 
Mr Hs mother incurred when the funeral was delayed. Shes not a party to the contract of 
insurance and it isnt in my power to make an award of compensation to her. And I dont 
think Mr H experienced a financial loss himself as a result of what went wrong here. So, 
whilst I have a lot of empathy with Mr Hs position, I dont think I can fairly say URV should 
cover the additional costs incurred. 
Ive also taken into account what Mr H has said about the impact that all of this had on the 
holiday of a lifetime. And I accept what hed told us about being concerned his insurance 
was a scam and that they spent a lot of time waiting by the phone for the call from the 
insurer. But, I think the £200 compensation fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr H during the time that he and his family were waiting for information from URV 
and for the failure to provide him with adequate guidance during the first call. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H, Miss A, Mr A 
and Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman