DRN-2641244
The complaint
Mrs and Mr J say Barclays Bank Plc misled them into thinking they would be approved for a
second residential mortgage, only to find out later that the mortgage could not be agreed.
Theyve said they relied on the information they were given to their detriment.
To resolve things Mrs and Mr J told us they would like an early repayment charge (ERC)
they incurred to be refunded to them and that consideration be given to the increased
financial responsibility they now have because of what Barclays told them.
 
What happened
In September 2019 Mrs J spoke with a mortgage adviser at Barclays. Mrs J explained to the
adviser that she and Mr J wished to buy the property belonging to Mrs Js mother. The
intention was for Mrs Js mother to remain in the property and pay rent to Mrs and Mr J.
Mrs J says she was told a buy-to-let mortgage would not be possible as a family member
would be in the property, but a second residential mortgage would work for this situation.
Mrs J says she went through some checks with the adviser which suggested such an
application would be fine. For the deposit Mrs J explained she and her husband would need
to raise this against their own home which was mortgaged with a different lender.
Mrs and Mr J successfully increased their existing mortgage with the other lender. Theyve
told us they increased the mortgage by £30,000 and increased the mortgage term by 6 years
 theyve said this has kept their existing monthly payments broadly the same. When
changing their existing mortgage arrangements Mrs and Mr J incurred an ERC for £889.
With the deposit in place Mrs and Mr J completed an application with Barclays for a second
residential mortgage. However, Barclays declined the mortgage. Barclays explained they
were not able to lend to Mrs and Mr J as the vendor was to remain in the property.
Mrs J complained to Barclays as she had made it clear from the outset what the purpose of
the mortgage was for.
Barclays acknowledged the adviser may have misinformed Mrs J and offered £400 to reflect
the distress and inconvenience this had caused. But they said the adviser had let Mrs J
know that the mortgage would not be completed until all checks had been done.
Our investigator acknowledged that Mrs and Mr J had relied on what the adviser had initially
said, and that the adviser had also been surprised when the mortgage was not agreed by
Barclays underwriters. The investigator upheld the complaint in part and tried to resolve
things by proposing that in addition to the £400, Barclays should also cover the cost of Mrs
and Mr Js ERC with the other lender.
While Mrs and Mr J were prepared to accept the investigators findings, Barclays didnt
agree. They felt that while it was likely the adviser gave Mrs J wrong information, Mrs and
Mr J could have mitigated their circumstances by waiting to ensure things were in place with
Barclays before committing to extending their existing mortgage with the other lender.
As a resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me to decide. I have copied my 
provisional findings below.
Provisional findings  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions are different to those reached by the investigator.
There are no records of Mrs Js initial meeting with the Barclays adviser in September 2019.
But it is accepted by both parties that such a meeting did take place.
Barclays also accepts their adviser may have given Mrs J information that was misleading 
after all, their own adviser had expressed surprise at the underwriters decision, and Mrs and
Mr Js actions to raise the deposit funds also suggest they had some sort of understanding
from the adviser that Barclays would be able to accommodate a second residential mortgage
for them.
That said, there is no paperwork from the time of that initial meeting in September 2019. And
Mrs and Mr J have confirmed they had no paperwork confirming such a mortgage would be
available to them. The adviser, whilst expressing their surprise at the underwriters decision,
has also said they make it clear to customers that nothing is confirmed until a full mortgage
application is completed, and all the necessary checks and searches have been carried out
 in short, the second residential mortgage was not guaranteed when Mrs J first met with the
Barclays adviser.
Mrs J told us she and Mr J wanted to ensure they could get the deposit monies together
before completing a full application with Barclays.
I understand these sorts of transactions  where different lending arrangements need to
come together for a common purpose  are not straightforward. But while I appreciate why
Mrs and Mr J may have wished to secure the deposit first, they did so without any guarantee
that Barclays would provide the second residential mortgage for them.
I accept, as Barclays has done, that Mrs J was more likely than not given some information
which wasnt quite right, but this doesnt automatically mean things should then be redressed
as if that misrepresentation had been true  that is, in the circumstances it doesnt mean
Barclays should approve the second residential mortgage for Mrs and Mr J. I recognise that
Mrs and Mr J are not asking for this to happen and I can see they understand that Barclays
has a lending criteria they use when making their lending decisions, but Mrs and Mr J do
think theyre worse off now because of relying on something that Barclays told them.
During their investigation our investigator asked Mrs and Mr J what happened with the
additional funds they raised with their existing lender. Mrs J explained that initially they had
intended to buy her mothers home and in turn her mother would provide Mrs and Mr J with
some funds to buy a family car. As the purchase didnt go through Mrs and Mr J ended up
using the monies they raised to buy the car themselves. After buying the car this left Mrs and
Mr J with around £17,000. Mrs J says this is now not enough for them to use towards a
deposit for a mortgage elsewhere and they would incur penalties on their existing mortgage
should they try and repay the remaining funds back to their lender.
I understand that circumstances and priorities for people change, but Im mindful that ratherthan using the monies theyd raised for a deposit, as initially planned, and seeking out
another mortgage elsewhere, Mrs and Mr J chose to buy a car instead. So this makes it
difficult for me to say exactly what Mrs and Mr J would have done instead if theyd had better
information from Barclays initially.
Ive carefully considered everything from both parties and it is disappointing that it seems
more likely than not the adviser gave Mrs J misleading information at the outset. It appears
Mrs J was open with Barclays about her and Mr Js circumstances and the purpose of the
mortgage they were seeking from Barclays. And I think its reasonable to say this should
have put the Barclays adviser on notice that they would not be able to help Mrs and Mr J.
However, the Barclays mortgage was not guaranteed at the time Mrs and Mr J approached
their own lender to raise the deposit. So they took steps to raise the additional funds without
any such certainty.
While its difficult for me to know what Mrs and Mr J would have done instead, theres no
doubt this matter has caused upset for Mrs and Mr J due to what Mrs J was told when she
first met with the Barclays adviser. With that in mind I think Barclays should pay Mrs and
Mr J £1,000 to recognise the trouble and upset caused. I also think that as the Barclays
adviser should have realised sooner that a second residential mortgage would not have
been possible for Mrs and Mr J, Barclays should also cover any Barclays mortgage
application costs Mrs and Mr J may have incurred.
Responses to my provisional findings
 
Both parties replied to my provisional findings and had nothing new for me to consider. 
Mrs J sought clarity about whether the provisional decision also required Barclays to pay the 
ERC. Our investigator confirmed Barclays was not being asked to pay Mrs and Mr Js ERC.
 
Barclays said they would await the final decision and formal acceptance of the final decision 
before making any payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties had nothing further for me to consider, I see no reason to alter my 
conclusions from those set out in my provisional findings above. I think Barclays should have 
realised sooner they would be unable to help Mrs and Mr J on this occasion. And I think Mrs 
and Mr J chose to rely on information which had offered them no guarantee.  
Putting things right
Barclays should pay Mrs and Mr J £1,000 only for the trouble and upset this matter has 
caused as well as any Barclays mortgage applications costs Mrs and Mr J may have 
incurred. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Barclays 
Bank UK Plc should pay Mrs and Mr J £1,000 only and cover any Barclays mortgage 
applications costs Mrs and Mr J incurred in this instance.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman