DRN-1308630
The complaint
Mrs C and Miss K complain about delays with a claim they made against their home 
insurance with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA). They say the delays have 
caused them to lose out.
Miss K has been handling the complaint on behalf of both policy holders, so I will be referring 
to her in the decision for ease.
What happened
On 5 June 2019 Miss K made a claim on her home insurance. RSA asked her to provide a 
list of stolen items, which she did a short time later. Miss K was claiming for some gold 
jewellery, so RSA needed to complete some extra checks.
On 5 July 2019 RSAs jewellery specialists confirmed that the value of the items would 
exceed the policy limit of £7500. So RSA referred the claim to the underwriters on 19 July 
2019 to consider as Miss K was under-insured.
After this time, Miss K chased RSA to try to get a response. On 2 September 2019 the 
underwriters confirmed that the claim could be settled in accordance with the policy limit and 
RSA confirmed this to Miss K.
The following day Miss K contacted RSA to complain that the cost of gold had increased by 
around 20% since she first made the claim, and that this had impacted her buying power. 
She said this was due to the claim taking too long. So Miss K asked RSA to consider 
increasing the settlement of £7500 to take the delays into account.
RSA responded on 4 September. It said that the price of gold changing is inevitable, so it 
wasnt willing to pay for the increase in the value of gold. But it did acknowledge that there 
had been a delay and offered Miss K £150 for this. This compensation was later increased to 
£200.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In short, he said there was a 
delay once the claim was passed to the underwriters but that there was no evidence that 
Miss K had suffered a financial loss as a direct consequence of that. But he did think RSA 
should pay interest on the settlement for the period there was an avoidable delay and Miss K 
was without the funds. And he thought that the compensation offered should be increased to 
£300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss K.
RSA accepted our investigators findings and agreed to increase the compensation payment 
and pay interest on the settlement. But Miss K didnt agree with the investigators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for the same 
reasons.
Miss Ks policy limit was £7500 so RSA wouldnt have paid more than that, regardless of 
when it had settled the claim. But theres no dispute that there were avoidable delays in RSA 
settling this claim so Ive considered how RSA should put things right.
Ive reviewed the timeline of events and I think the claim seemed to have progressed as I 
wouldve expected at first. It did take RSA some time to validate the claim but given that it 
was trying to establish the value of the jewellery that had been stolen, I think it progressed 
things as I would have expected initially. But once the claim was passed to the underwriters 
to consider on 19 July 2019, it took several weeks for them to reply and there doesnt seem 
to be any explanation for why it took so long. So as RSA has acknowledged, I think the 
delays from this point were avoidable.
Miss K would like RSA to increase her settlement by 20% to reflect the change in the price of 
gold. But Miss K hasnt shown that this change in price has actually impacted her. I agree 
that from the information shes provided it seems that there was an increase in the value of 
gold. But Miss K hasnt evidenced to us that she intended to buy new jewellery as soon as 
her claim was settled or provided any quotes she got from before the claim was settled 
which show that the cost of the item she intended to buy has now increased. And without 
that evidence, I dont think there has been an actual loss to Miss K  rather the loss has 
been theoretical.
But I do think Miss K wouldve had the funds available to her sooner than she did if it werent 
for the delays. And she would have been able to use that money or invest it as she chose to. 
So I think it would be fair for RSA to pay Miss K interest on the amount of the settlement for 
the period the claim was delayed reflecting that the money was not available to her.
Its clear that Miss K has been caused distress and inconvenience by this delay. Miss Ks 
home had recently been burgled so it seems that this would have been a particularly 
stressful period for her. And so, I think the unnecessary delays and having to chase RSA 
caused her some distress and inconvenience. RSA has agreed to increase the 
compensation its offered to a total of £300 and I think thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should pay Mrs C and Miss K:
Interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum from 19 July 2019 to the date the claim 
was paid*
An additional £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs 
C and Miss K. So the total compensation should be £300.
 
* If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required by HMRC to take off 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs C and Miss K how much its taken off. It 
should also give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one so they can reclaim the 
tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Miss K 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 April 2020.Sara Falzon
Ombudsman