DRN-2418252
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Marketing & Management Services Ltd (MMS) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
 In 2008 Mr and Mrs S took out PPI at the same time as they applied for a secured loan. The 
policy was sold on the phone. The loan was taken over 25 years, the PPI policy had a three- 
year term and the cost was added to the loan upfront. The policy was in Mrs Ss sole name 
and gave her accident, sickness and unemployment cover.
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint was upheld as the policy didnt meet       
Mr and Mrs Ss needs. MMS disagreed. It said the sale was non-advised and all information 
needed was provided on the phone call and in subsequent documents. So Mr and Mrs S 
were fully aware of what the policy covered and the financial implications. 
The complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
In response to the adjudicators recommendation MMS said that the sale was non-advised. 
But I disagree for a number of reasons. On the call the adviser said she would see if the 
insurance would be suitable for them. And following the call MMS sent a Statement of 
Demands and Needs that stated that the level of service it was providing was advice and 
recommendation. This document conclusively shows that MMS reviewed Mr and Mrs Ss 
protection needs and made a recommendation. 
This means MMS had to make sure that the PPI was suitable for Mrs S. It also had to 
provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading to enable Mr and Mrs S to make 
an informed decision.  
I dont think it did this. Ill explain why.
This sale involved a mismatch between the repayment period of the loan at twenty-five years
and the term of the PPI policy which was three years. So if Mr and Mrs S let the loan run its 
course, the PPI only covered them for the first three years. If they wanted cover for the 
remaining period, theyd have had to get a new PPI policy. Given we know from the sales 
call that they understood the cover was optional and chose to be protected, it seems most 
likely they would have wanted ongoing protection over the term of the loan. And in this case 
theyd still have had to pay interest for the original PPI for the term of the loan, as well as 
paying for a new policy.
I cant see that MMS made this clear to Mr and Mrs S at any point, either on the call or in the 
documentation. I cant see it was set out clearly for Mr and Mrs S that they would pay 
interest for the three-year policy over the term of the 25-year loan, unless they repaid the 
loan early. Infact, the only document they signed  the loan agreement - didnt even go as 
far as to split out the interest payable on the PPI from the interest payable on the loan.  
Also, the reasons MMS gave for recommending a single premium policy rather than a 
monthly premium policy were around the cost being fixed as it understood Mr and Mrs S 
wanted to be able to budget. But it didnt explain that whilst a monthly premium policy might 
increase in cost they could cancel such a policy at any time incurring no further cost if their 
circumstances changed. 
Based on what I know of Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of the sale I think a better 
understanding of what they were paying for the PPI over what period, and thus the value it 
offered them, would have mattered to them. Overall, I dont think Mr and Mrs S would have 
taken out this PPI policy had they been better advised and informed. It follows I think they 
have lost out because of what MMS did wrong.
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs S borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it shouldve 
been, and they paid more than they shouldve each month. So, Mr and Mrs S need to get 
back the extra theyve paid.
So, MMS should:
Work out and pay Mr and Mrs S the difference between what they paid each month 
on the loan and what they wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs S paid each month from when 
they paid it until they get it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, MMS can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. It can also deduct the 
commission refund relating to this PPI sale that the lender has already paid to Mr and 
Mrs S.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MMS to take off tax from this interest. MMS must give Mr and 
Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint for the reasons set out above and Marketing & Management 
Services Ltd. Must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman