DRN-4274287
The complaint
Mr T complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (Loans 2 Go) irresponsibly granted him two 
personal loans (in March and September 2022) that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr T took out a loan of £500 (account number ending 1288), over a term of 
78 weeks. with a weekly payment of £23.72. The loan was repaid in September 2022, when 
he took out a further loan of £1,326.92 (account number ending 1758), over 104 weeks, with 
weekly payment of £41.24. Part of this loan - £326.92 - was used to repay the first loan, with 
£1,000 as additional borrowing. 
Mr T felt he shouldnt have been granted the loans  he said he had a gambling problem, 
and the top-up loan was a sure sign that he was struggling. He thinks Loans 2 Go should 
write off the debt, or at least refund the interest. 
Mr T complained to Loans 2 Go, but it said that it had carried out appropriate checks before 
granting the loans, and told Mr T that it did not uphold his complaint. Mr T then brought his 
complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it but didnt think it should be upheld. 
Mr T didnt agree, and asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website, and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks required of a lender, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering matters such as the type and amount 
of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and 
the consumers circumstances. So Ive considered whether Loans 2 Go completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T would be able to make the 
repayments on each loan account in a sustainable way.
Mr T sent in copies of bank statements from the time around the loans being granted. Loans 
2 Go sent in copies of the credit file information it used to make the lending decisions, the 
loan agreements, and copies of its computer records of the loans. 
Loan 1 (account number ending 1288)
Looking first at the initial loan of £500, Loans 2 Go said that Mr T declared his monthly 
income as £2,250, and it verified a minimum of around £1,665 using an online income 
verification tool. Mr Ts bank statements show that he was paid weekly, and the amounts 
varied, but Loans 2 Gos income figure is reasonable from whats on the statements  and 
indeed it looks as though Mr Ts pay was sometimes higher than this. 
Loans 2 Go also said that, based on Mr Ts application and what was on his credit file, it 
calculated his monthly expenses to be just under £1,340 (leaving a disposable income of 
around £325) and therefore the loan repayments of £23.72 per week would have still been 
affordable. Ive worked out that that weekly payment equates to just under £103 per month.
Based on the information from Mr Ts application and credit history, Loans 2 Go said that he 
passed their affordability checks and therefore it didnt need to make more detailed enquiries 
about his circumstances, such as requesting bank statements. 
Ive thought about whether Loans 2 Gos checks were reasonable and proportionate, and on 
the first loan I think they were. I say this because Mr Ts credit record showed three credit 
cards, a mail order account, and a current account. Some payments had been missed in the 
past, but all the accounts were up to date. Whilst the credit cards were near their limit, the 
total amount outstanding was less than £3,000, so not especially high relative to his income. 
Mr T had three defaults recorded, one of which had been settled, but these were three or 
more years before his application for this loan, so I dont think it was unreasonable for Loans 
2 Go to accept these in its assessment, given that the new loan was for a relatively small 
amount. 
I dont have a breakdown of the amount that Loans 2 Go calculated as Mr Ts monthly 
expenses, but looking at what Mr T stated on his application as housing costs, and taking 
account of his other credit commitments and allowing for living costs, the estimate of his 
expenses appears reasonable, and the disposable income looks adequate to cover the loan 
repayments.
So taking all this into account, I dont think it was unfair of Loans 2 Go to grant this loan 
based on the checks it carried out.
Loan 2 (account number ending 1758)
Six months after taking the loan of £500, Mr T applied to borrow a further £1,000. There was 
£326.92 outstanding on the first loan, so in order to repay that Mr T borrowed £1,326.92 in 
total. I dont have any information about the purpose of the loan.
For this loan, Loans 2 Go said that Mr T declared his monthly income as £2,800, but it 
verified that he received a minimum of around £1,821.21 monthly via an online income 
verification tool. It said it calculated his monthly expenses to be around £1,362.42 and 
therefore, the contractual loan repayment of £41.24 per week would have still been 
affordable. Loans 2 Gos figures showed a disposable income of just under £460 per month, 
and for this loan the weekly payment equates to just under £178 per month.
Again, Ive thought about whether Loans 2 Go carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks, and again I think it did. The income figure used by Loans 2 Go is reasonable based 
on whats on Mr Ts statements  and as with the first loan his income looks higher on 
occasions. Mr Ts other commitments as shown on his credit report (as Ive described 
above) were unchanged from March 2022, and the payments were up to date. He had also 
met all of the payments due on the first loan.
As before, I dont have a breakdown of the amount that Loans 2 Go calculated as Mr Ts 
monthly expenses, but from what Mr T stated on his application as housing costs, and taking account of his other credit commitments and allowing for living costs, the estimate of his 
expenses again appears reasonable. So although his loan repayments were increasing with 
the new loan, I think it was reasonable for Loans 2 Go to grant it on the basis of the checks it 
carried out.
Mr T has told us that he had gambling problems, and I can see from his bank statements 
that there are numerous payments in this respect. I can understand how difficult this must 
have been for him, and I hope that he has received the appropriate help and support. 
However, the gambling transactions did not show up on Mr Ts credit file, and Ive no 
evidence to suggest that Mr T told Loans 2 Go about them. Ive explained above why I think 
that Loans 2 Gos checks were reasonable and proportionate, so I dont think Loans 2 Go 
needed to make more detailed enquiries. So Loans 2 Go could not reasonably have known 
about Mr Ts gambling issues, and therefore couldnt have taken them into account. 
I understand that Mr T feels strongly about this. But having considered all of the evidence I 
dont think Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in granting the two loans to Mr T, based on the checks 
it carried out. So I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T has told us that he is in financial difficulties, and Loans 2 Go is required to treat 
customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. I can 
see from Loans 2 Gos account notes that it offered to reduce the interest on the current 
loan. Mr T should contact Loans 2 Go to see if this offer is still open and otherwise agree an 
appropriate repayment arrangement. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I have decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman