DRN-4127838
The complaint
Ms M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont reimburse the 
money she lost in a scam.
What happened
Ms M was recently divorced and had moved into a new home. She is also disabled and 
struggles with her mental health. During the pandemic she lived alone and had little 
company. As a result of the situation that she found herself in, she decided to buy a 
caravanette  so she could enjoy some independence and travel round the country  
providing some escape and enjoyment. 
She saw an advertisement for the sale of a  caravanette on a social media sales website. 
She messaged the seller who said it was his brother selling it. He put Ms M in contact with 
him by passing on his email address. This proved to be the scammer  who explained he 
had no further use for the caravanette. He had used it for family holidays but he was getting 
divorced and was going to work away. He said he wanted to pick its buyer as he wanted her 
to have the lifestyle it gave. He said the price of the caravanette was low as he had got it for 
a cheap price and wanted to pass that on. Ms M thought he was a caring and genuine 
person, and built a rapport with him, and came to trust him.
Ms M looked into the scammers background and  he sent her his ID and a photograph. 
She discovered he was a vet.
He told Ms M the caravanette was in storage in Spain. He asked Ms M to pay the storage 
company direct, and the caravanette would be delivered to her. Then the money would be 
transferred to him  when she was happy with the caravanette. Ms M googled the company 
and they had good reviews and appeared genuine  they were in the middle of an industrial 
estate. The scammer provided the bank details of the company to be paid. 
Ms M tried to pay for the caravanette using her credit card (from another provider). She tried 
three times but the payment didnt go through. The scammer suggested she use her Halifax 
account. The online payment of £3,950 was made on 4 March 2021 at 11.06 am  to an 
account in Spain.
Ms M had a gut feeling that something wasnt right and called the veterinary practice where 
the scammer apparently worked. They said the employee wasnt selling a caravanette  and 
she was the fourth person to contact them in the last two days asking the same thing.
Ms M then contacted Halifax and asked that the payment be cancelled. She was told she 
had to call the next day, which she did. Halifax said theyd investigate it, but this went on for 
six months.
She later spoke to the vet whose ID had been used, and he said hed been the victim of 
identity theft.
Ms M said Halifax shouldve questioned the payment and stopped it. She said this was an 
unusual transaction for her to make  as it was for a large amount, to a new payee, and to 
an overseas bank account. She said Halifax should refund £3,950, pay compensation of 
£500, and pay her legal costs.
What Halifax say
Halifax said that while Ms M made some searches on the seller and the storage company, 
she hadnt done anything to prove the ownership or legitimacy of the caravanette. For any 
online payment, Halifax recommend that the vehicle should be seen first. And most 
companies will accept payment by card  which offers some protection if things go wrong. 
Halifax said any payment outside the UK isnt protected, and its down to customers to 
ensure theyre making payment to a legitimate supplier of goods and services. Halifax said 
issuing an online payment is like sending cash. Therefore - it cant be cancelled or reversed. 
Halifax said Ms M called them in the evening of 4 March 2021, and as the payments 
department wasnt then open, she was asked to call back the following morning, which she 
did. At that time, Halifax issued a recall request to the foreign bank to ask for a return of the 
funds. They had sent updates to Ms M and wrote to her on 14 July 2022 to say they were 
still pursuing the bank concerned, but no refund had been made. Halifax said theyd continue 
to try to get the money back.
Our investigation so far 
Ms M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Halifax didnt need to refund the 
payment of £3,950. This was because it was a single payment which didnt warrant 
intervention by Halifax. It was low value and Ms M had made similar payments in the past. 
She accepted the payment was to an overseas account but didnt think this meant that 
Halifax should have flagged it as being so out of character as to question it. She said Halifax 
contacted the beneficiary bank within half an hour of Ms Ms call to them, but no refund had 
been made. That was outside of Halifaxs control. 
Ms M didnt agree. She said the payment was unusual  as it was to a new payee and to an 
overseas account. The previous large payment was to pay off her UK credit card  so it 
couldnt be compared to that. She asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint. 
Therefore, it has come to me to do that and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Ms M has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that Ms M 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Ms M didnt intend for 
the  money to go to the scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Halifax should fairly and reasonably:Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code doesnt apply in this 
case. That is because it applies to payments made to a UK beneficiary and in this case, the 
payment was made to an overseas account. 
I need to decide whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms M when 
she made the payment, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully.
Ms M made the online payment at 11.06am on 4 March 2021. It was to an overseas 
account. I have considered whether this was a payment that Halifax might reasonably have 
considered unusual  and therefore whether they shouldve held or stopped the payment 
and contacted Ms M about it.
I have looked at Ms Ms bank statements for the 12-month period before the scam 
transaction. She made a payment of £4,993.04 on 27 January 2021  to her UK credit card, 
and a debit card payment of £2,787.20 on 28 January 2021. So  those were payments of 
similar amounts as the fraudulent payment meaning the fraudulent transaction didnt stand 
out. And although I accept the loss has had a significant impact on Ms M, the transaction 
was for a relatively small amount. The balance of the account after the transaction was 
made also wasnt unusual. Likewise, crediting the account and then making a transfer was 
something Ms M did before  just before the payment of £4,993.04, Ms M paid £10,000 into 
her account. 
I accept that the scam payment was to a new payee, and to an overseas account. But I dont 
consider that in the absence of any other scam indicators there was enough going on here 
that Halifax ought reasonably to have had concerns.
Theres a balance to be struck; Halifax has obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every transaction as this 
would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. And here - this was a single 
payment and for a relatively low amount. Therefore, in this case, I think Halifax acted 
reasonably in processing the payment  I dont think that I could reasonably say that Halifax 
should have stopped the payment for further checks.
Recovery
I then considered what Halifax did to try to recover the money. Ms M contacted Halifax in the 
evening of 4 March 2021. But Halifaxs international payments department wasnt then open 
 we asked them about this and their hours are 8.30 am to 18.00 Monday to Friday. Ms M 
then called Halifax the next morning at 9.10 am. I can see that Halifax sent a message to the 
beneficiary bank at 09.32 on that day, and then again at 12.53  asking for the funds to be 
repaid. This is what we wouldve expected  as they contacted the bank within half an hour of Ms Ms contact.  But they didnt get a reply. I can also see that they sent messages on 17 
March 2021, 31 March 2021, 15 April 2021, 5 May 2021, 17 May 2021, 25 May 2021, 15 
June 2021, 17 June 2021, 21 June 2021 and 24 June 2021  without any response. So  
Halifax made reasonable efforts to get the money back.  And because this was a payment to 
an overseas bank, Halifax are limited in what they can do here  and any efforts Halifax 
made had to be on a best endeavours basis. But having looked at what Halifax did  I dont 
think we could have expected them to do more than they did.
And so  Im sorry to say that it appears that the money is not recoverable.
Ms M has lost a lot of money and at a difficult time in her life. Im sure this must have been 
upsetting for her. She will therefore be disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask 
Halifax to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman