DRN-3120085
The complaint
Mr C has complained about how his motor insurer Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith) charged him 
for his insurance policy held with it.
 
What happened
In March 2021 Mr C took out a motor insurance policy. He chose to pay for the policy 
monthly and paid a deposit.
In June 2021 Mr C contacted Zenith to change the car covered under the policy. Zenith 
charged an additional amount for the change on the policy. Mr C was unhappy with this 
amount as he had also completed a separate quote for the same car that was cheaper 
overall.
Mr C has also complained that it was not clear who the underwriter of his policy was from the 
outset.
Our Investigator considered Mr Cs complaint. She thought Zenith had acted fairly when 
deciding on the amount it would charge Mr C to change the car on the policy. She also 
thought the policy documents were clear that Zenith was the underwriter of the policy. So, 
she didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld.
Mr C didnt agree so this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not able to tell Zenith how much it can charge for its policies. However, I look to see
that Zenith has acted fairly and reasonably. In this case, that means looking to see if
Zenith has correctly increased Mr Cs premium and treated him as it would other 
policyholders in the same circumstances.
In March 2021 Mr Cs motor insurance premium was £202.76. An additional amount was 
added to this as a credit charge bringing the total amount to £222.55.
Mr C paid a deposit of £40.55 to be followed by 10 monthly payments of £18.20 and the 
policy started on 22 March 2021.
On 14 June 2021 Mr C changed the car on the policy and Zenith charged him an additional 
£125.64. This brought the total cost of Mr Cs insurance over the 12 months to £348.19.
When we asked Zenith about the difference in premium between the new quote Mr C 
obtained for 12 months of cover, compared to that he was charged to change his car part 
way through the year, it explained that the new business quote was based on a different 
pricing matrix. It also explained that the new quote Mr C obtained did not include no claims 
discount protection like his existing policy. So, for both reasons, there was a difference in 
premium.
Ive considered what Zenith has told us. It isnt unusual for the price of insurance to change 
over time. As Ive said above, I cannot tell Zenith how much it can charge for insurance. 
Based on the information provided by Zenith I think it treated Mr C in the same way it would 
any other customer in the same position he was in when he made the change to his policy. 
So, I cant ask it to do anything differently.
Mr C has said that Zenith has treated him unfairly and broken the law when charging him 
more for his insurance than it would have if he had taken a new policy. I have considered 
this argument, but I dont agree. I havent seen evidence to support what Mr C has said. So, 
this doesnt change my decision.
Ive also looked at Mr Cs policy documents. They clearly state:
Insurance policies are administered on behalf of the insurer (Zenith Insurance Plc) 
So, I think Mr C should have been aware that Zenith was the underwriter of his policy.
Overall, I think Zenith has acted fairly and I dont think it should have to do anything to 
resolve Mr Cs complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman