DRN-3622797
The complaint
Mr K complains that Business Insurance Solutions Limited (BISL) cancelled his commercial 
motor insurance policy after he had paid a missed premium. He wants compensation for his 
subsequent losses. 
What happened
Mr K missed a monthly direct debit payment for his policy. BISL said it gave Mr K seven 
days notice to make the payment or the policy would cancel. Mr K said he didnt receive this 
notice. He said the finance company gave him about two weeks in which to make the 
payment, and he completed this. 
Mr K then had an accident but when he tried to make a claim BISL said the policy had been 
cancelled the previous day. Mr K incurred costs for recovery, storage, and the loss of his 
van.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the finance 
company had paid BISL the full cost of the policy and Mr K had met his obligations to the 
finance company. So she couldnt see why BISL had cancelled the policy. 
She thought it should remove records of the cancellation, reimburse Mr K for his recovery 
and storage costs, compensate him with £500 for his trouble and upset, and pay him the 
valuation of his van, with interest. 
BISL replied that it had contacted Mr K about the missed payment by various means. It said 
it could over-rule the finance company as it was liable for any outstanding balances for the 
policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the cancellation of his policy has caused Mr K considerable upset due to the 
effect on his finances and ability to work because of the loss of his van. Our approach in 
cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with its terms of business and 
fairly and reasonably.
From what I can see, Mr Ks direct debit failed and so he missed a monthly premium 
payment. BISL wrote, emailed and called him to chase this and give notice of the pending 
cancellation unless the payment was made within seven days. 
Mr K said he didnt receive these notifications. But I can see that they were sent to the same 
postal address and email address that Mr K provided to us. So I would usually say that BISL 
had given Mr K fair and reasonable notice of the cancellation before it cancelled the policy. 
But I dont think that is fair and reasonable in Mr Ks particular circumstances. This is 
because Mr Ks credit agreement to make his monthly premium payments was with a 
finance company. The finance company had paid the full premium to the broker, and so Mr K 
repaid the finance company in monthly instalments. 
When Mr K missed his payment, the finance company wrote to him giving him about two 
weeks to rectify this. Mr K made the payment a week later and so completed his 
commitment to the finance company and the loan agreement. BISL had cancelled the policy 
the day before this, but I cant see that it did this in communication with the finance 
company. And so I think the policy was unfairly cancelled. 
When a business makes a mistake, as I think BISL has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
To put things right for Mr K, I think BISL should remove any records of the cancellation, 
reimburse Mr Ks costs of £607.60 for recovery and storage and retrospectively pay his claim 
for the loss of his van. Mr K received £200 for the vans salvage and so I think this should be 
deducted from the settlement. And Mr K has been without his money for some time. So I 
think BISL should reasonably add interest to this.  
Mr K has been caused loss of use and considerable distress and upset by the cancellation 
and its consequences for his claim. The Investigator recommended that BISL should pay 
him £500 compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our 
published guidance.
Putting things right
I require Business Insurance Solutions Limited to do the following:
1. Remove records of the cancellation from any databases where its been recorded. 
2. Reimburse Mr K £607.60 for his recovery and storage costs.
3. Pay Mr K the market value for his van at its date of loss, adding interest to this amount at 
the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of loss to the date of settlement, minus 
£200 for salvage. 
4. Pay Mr K £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unfairly 
cancelling his policy. 
If BISL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr K a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Business Insurance Solutions Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman