DRN-2846463
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the way esure Insurance Limited (esure) handled his 
motor insurance claim.
My references to esure includes their agents.
What happened
Mr W was unfortunately involved in a car accident, so he made a claim on his policy. 
After an inspection was completed by an engineer, esure declared his car a total loss. 
Mr W accepted esures decision but complained about the following issues:
The valuation and cash settlement he received for his car. He said the 
valuation wasnt fair, based on the research hed carried out independently 
and the amount hed originally paid for the car. He also said he believed 
esure had deducted an excessive amount from the settlement figure due to 
pre-existing damage.
The amount of time it took esure to provide a hire car following the accident.
The fact he wasnt given the option to buy back his car after it had been written off.
The loss of a designer watch which he thinks he may have left in the car and 
didnt retrieve.
The unexpected contact he received from the new owner of his car, after it had 
been sold at auction. Mr W said this caused him distress, as he was told some 
of his belongings had been left in the car. He was also concerned his personal 
data had been shared instead of disposed of, as the third party said hed 
identified him using receipts hed found in the car.
In response to the complaint, esure said they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. 
So, Mr W asked our service to consider the matter.
Our investigator concluded esure had treated Mr W fairly in relation to most of his concerns. 
But they should reasonably have made sure Mr Ws car was cleared of any personal 
possessions and information, before it was sold. So, she asked esure to pay Mr W £200 
compensation to reflect the trouble and upset this issue caused him. 
Mr W accepted our investigators opinion, but esure didnt. They said theyd acted fairly as 
Mr W had been given ample opportunity to collect his possessions before the car was sold. 
They also said the car was inspected and cleared of all items and rubbish before it was 
given to the new owner. They accepted its possible a single receipt may have been missed 
when they cleared the car, but they didnt think compensation should be payable under such 
circumstances.
After our investigator issued their view, Mr W raised a new complaint point. He said hed 
recently found out there was a balance outstanding to the company that provided his hire 
car. So, he felt esure should arrange for this to be settled as a matter of priority. In 
response, esure said they werent responsible for paying this extra bill, as Mr W kept the 
hire car after they asked him to return it. 
On 8 November 2021, I issued a provisional decision to make sure all of Mr Ws 
complaint points were addressed. Since then both sides have accepted my findings and 
said they dont wish to provide any additional comments. So, what follows is my 
provisional decision made final. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied Mr W was provided with a fair valuation for his car, based on the 
motor trade guides. I also think it was reasonable for esure to rely on these 
guides, as they are based on extensive nationwide and local research and they 
show likely sale prices for most cars, based on the month of loss. To settle the 
claim, esure were required to pay the cost of replacing Mr Ws car with another 
of the same make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of 
the accident or loss. Relying on motor trade guides was therefore a fair way of 
establishing this information, despite it not being an exact science. I also 
wouldnt normally expect esure to base their valuations on car adverts instead 
of trade guides, as the price listed in car adverts often has a margin built in to 
allow for negotiation. In other words, they are often asking prices instead of 
selling prices.
I have reviewed each of the motor valuations esure relied on and Im satisfied 
£3,468 was a fair valuation for Mr Ws car. As this was the average amount, 
based on the four guides that were consulted. Im also satisfied the valuations 
were based on cars with the same mileage, make and model as Mr Ws. I 
appreciate Mr W is disappointed this amount is significantly less than the price 
he purchased the car for. However, as esure were required to base the 
settlement amount on the value of his car immediately before the time of loss - I 
wouldnt reasonably expect them to increase the settlement amount for this 
reason.
Mr W doesnt dispute the pre-existing damage esure identified with his car. His 
concern relates solely to the amount they deducted. I dont think esure have 
treated Mr W unfairly here either, as Ive reviewed the engineers report and Im 
satisfied the damage they identified including dents, chips and panel damage 
would reasonably have impacted the value of the car. Unless a car is brand 
new, Id usually expect an insurer to establish the cost of repairing any pre-
existing damage, and then divide this amount by half to reach a fair deduction. 
Im satisfied esure did this here, as an engineer calculated the repair cost to be 
£1,571.40 and £785 was deducted from the above valuation figure.
I dont think esure delayed providing Mr W with a hire car, as this was supplied 
on the first working day, following the accident taking place. I appreciate this 
meant    Mr W didnt have a car to use over the weekend, but as the car was 
supplied within the time frame stated in the policy wording, I dont think esure 
acted unreasonably.In most cases, where an insurer declares a car a total loss, they will retain the 
vehicle in its damaged state, and they may sell it at auction to receive the 
salvage value. This is indicated in esures policy wording as it says,  If we settle 
your claim as a total loss, the car will become our property. This isnt an unusual 
policy term, so I dont think esure acted unreasonably by relying on it. I also note 
that Mr W didnt express any interest in buying back the car until after it was 
sold. So, esure wouldnt have had any reason to think Mr W was interested in 
pursuing this possibility.
Mr W was entitled to a hire car for a maximum of 21 days following the accident. 
Ive listened to several calls Mr W had with esure about this issue, and note he 
was clearly told to return the hire car by 29 December 2020. In later 
conversations, he was also advised to return the car as a matter of priority, as 
the deadline had expired, and no further cover was available. So, I dont think 
esure acted unfairly by declining to pay the outstanding bill for the extra time Mr 
W retained the hire car.
Mr W has asked esure to compensate him for a missing designer watch which 
he believes he may have left in the car. I dont think this would be fair under 
the circumstances, as Mr W has acknowledged he could reasonably have 
retrieved this item after the accident or in any event, before the car was sold. I 
also note esure gave Mr W several weeks to collect his belongings and gave 
him the necessary contact details to do so straight away. So, I dont think they 
could reasonably have done anything more to help him retrieve this high value 
item.
Despite the above, I dont think Mr W reasonably expected his car to be sold 
without it being cleared of its contents first, as he was told any items would be 
set aside or disposed of. Its also understandable he was caused upset, when 
the new owner contacted him through social media and said hed been able to 
identify him using receipts hed found in the car.
Im aware, esure have said Mr Ws car was thoroughly checked and cleared 
before it was sold, and if any personal possessions had been found they would 
have been put to one side. Theyve also said all items were deemed to be 
rubbish and disposed of prior to the sale. Ive carefully considered esures 
comments here and note that to a certain extent they reflect Mr Ws testimony, 
as hes said it was his understanding his car would be cleared before it was 
sold, and any items would be set aside or disposed of if he didnt collect them.
Mr W has provided copies of the messages and photographs he exchanged with 
a third party using social media. The first message says the third party thought 
hed purchased Mr Ws car at auction. It also says hed identified Mr W, using an 
envelope full of receipts hed found in the car, and he wanted to return them in 
case they were important for tax reasons. The third party also said hed found 
some other items including a Sat Nav. Having reviewed this evidence, Im 
satisfied its likely the third party purchased Mr Ws car, as the photographs are 
like those contained in the engineers report and the car has the same 
registration number.I dont have any reason to doubt the comments the third party made about the 
condition of the car. As such, I dont think its likely the car was sufficiently 
checked or cleared before it was sold as esure have suggested. I also disagree 
with esure that

its likely the new owner identified Mr W, based on a single receipt that may 
have been missed in error. I say this as the messages and photographs 
suggest several receipts were found in the car, alongside other items which 
should reasonably have been removed before the sale.
I appreciate Mr W received some benefit from the contact he received from the 
third party, as he was able to retrieve some personal items which otherwise 
may have been disposed of. However, I dont think this reasonably outweighs 
the upset he experienced, when he realised his personal information and 
possessions had been left in the car, despite assurances this wouldnt take 
place.
I havent seen any evidence which suggests esures error had long lasting 
consequences. However, its clear the contact from the third party caused Mr W 
to experience shock, worry and upset. I therefore think it would be reasonable 
for esure to pay Mr W £200 compensation to reflect this trouble and upset.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part and direct esure insurance 
limited to pay Mr W £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman