DRN-3850837
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the delays he experienced when transferring his ISA account 
from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) to another platform. As a result, he says he 
has lost out on investment potential.
What happened
Mr H held an ISA with Aviva which he requested be transferred to another platform who I 
shall refer to a Company A in my decision. Mr H gave the instruction to transfer the ISA in 
April 2021, but it wasnt completed until October 2021. 
Mr H complained to Aviva about the delays he had experienced during the transfer. Aviva 
didnt uphold the complaint. In its response it said;
It explained the process for in specie transfers, cash transfers or a mixture of both.
The new provider might not accept all the assets in specie, and some may need to 
be sold which is what happened in Mr Hs case as one asset  the unsupported 
asset  couldnt be held on Company As platform.
It provided a timeline for the transfer of the ISA and concluded it wasnt responsible 
for any delay.
Mr H wasnt happy with the outcome and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said;
He provided a timeline of the transfer.
He concluded that the delay that did occur was because of Aviva having to wait for 
an instruction from Company A which wasnt confirmed until September.
After that, the transfer was completed within a reasonable timeframe.
Mr H didnt agree with the outcome. He requested that the complaint be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me.
Mr H also made the following points for my consideration;
Mr H had various complaints with Aviva, and he was frustrated they were being dealt 
with separately. 
He was trying to make investment decisions right up until 16 June  he had no idea 
how the transfer process would work. Aviva did not engage with him very well. 
There was an unsupported asset in his ISA  the BMO fund  which couldnt be held 
on Company As platform and he wasnt contacted about this by Aviva. Mr H thought 
the remaining funds on his ISA account could have been transferred without the 
delay caused by the BMO fund.
Mr H had sent instructions to be carried out on his account, but this had not been 
done. He wasnt contacted about this or whether he wanted to cancel the original in 
specie transfer in lieu of the new instructions. He says he was denied the opportunity 
to cancel his original in specie transfer. 
He wasnt made aware that the continuation and completion of the transfer was 
dependent on the decision to sell or convert the BMO fund. 
Reducing the complaint to a convenient timeline exercise failed to demonstrate the 
problems encountered throughout. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator and broadly for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
I should make clear that in this final decision I will not be commenting on any of the actions 
of Company A. 
As background, my understanding is that in his ISA wrapper Mr H held the following 
investments;
Witan Investment Trust (a CREST holding)
Legal & General UK Property Feeder Fund (I) Accumulation
Bailie Gifford Managed Fund B Accumulation
Legal & General Multi-Index 5 Fund I Class Accumulation
BMO Universal MAP Growth Fund C Accumulation
HSBC Global Strategy Dynamic Portfolio Accumulation C
Cash of £731.31.
I appreciate the parties are well aware of the timeline of this transfer but for completeness I 
include the details here;
27.04.21 Request from Mr H for the transfer of his ISA account in specie via 
Company A and which is allocated to Avivas in specie team.
29.04.21 Valuation sent to Company A confirming the five funds held, the one 
CREST holding plus cash.
17.09.21 Acceptance received from Company A to re-register four of the funds, 
the CREST holding and sell one fund  the BMO Universal MAP 
Growth Fund C Accumulation.
The transfer is accepted by Avivas in specie team. Four funds are 
transferred via the Origo system and trade and settlement dates 
agreed by phone for the CREST holding.
20.09.21 Acceptance checked and submitted on Origo and instructions sent to 
four fund managers plus the instruction for the CREST holding. 
27.09.21 All of the funds are transferred in specie.
28.09.21 Sale trade placed for the final unsupported BMO fund.05.10.21 Sale completed and cash sent via CHAPS and confirmation to 
Company A that the Origo transfer had completed.
Like the investigator, and while I appreciate Mr H feels a timeline doesnt fairly reflect what 
happened, I think the above is a useful tool to assess whether Mr H was treated fairly by 
Aviva during the transfer of his ISA and assess the time that it took. 
And I think the above timeline makes clear when the delay arose. This was after the 
valuation of Mr Hs ISA account was sent to Company A and Aviva was waiting for the 
resulting instruction about what to do next. This didnt happen until five months later and 
which included the instruction to sell the unsupported asset  the BMO fund. 
Aviva couldnt carry out any further action on the account until it had received instruction 
from Company A. Aviva has told us once the valuation was provided to Company A it 
wouldnt take any further action until it received confirmation that the transfer was going 
ahead or cancelled. And I cant see that would have made a difference in any event as the 
underlying instruction that had to come via Company A needed to be given by Mr H. Mr Hs 
account was an execution only account which meant that he had to give the instruction if any 
action was to be taken. It wasnt up to Aviva to interpret what action Mr H wanted to be 
taken. 
After the in specie transfer request instruction was given by Mr H in April, he then messaged 
Aviva on 18 June requesting some investments in his ISA be retained and transferred in 
specie, and that some should now be sold. I understand that in response Mr H was advised 
by Aviva that trades couldnt be carried out on the account as the transfer was being 
processed. 
I dont think this was unreasonable or unfair decision for Aviva to have made. At that time 
Aviva wasnt to know there would be such a delay pending instruction from Company A. It 
wouldnt want to give instruction to sell any of the assets only for the transfer to 
simultaneously go ahead upon the instruction which was based on the original valuation of 
assets that had been provided to Company A and which was pending agreement for the 
transfer. If that were the case the provision of the valuation for Company A and agreement 
for transfer between the parties would need to have been repeated. Or Aviva wouldnt have 
been able to honour delivery of stock for its side of a sale transaction. In any event, if Aviva 
believes the best way to complete an outgoing transfer is to freeze trades, that is a business 
decision for Aviva to make. 
Mr H has said that hes unsure why the transfer of the other assets which were supported on 
Company As platform couldnt have gone ahead. But that wasnt for Aviva to decide. It had 
carried out the action it was required to do as part of the transfer process by sending the 
valuation of Mr Hs ISA assets to Company A. It was for Mr H, via Company A, to instruct it 
how to proceed if the transfer was to go ahead and which wasnt given until September. So, I 
dont think Aviva is at fault. Once the instruction was given and received, the transfer of the 
ISA went ahead within a reasonable timeframe.
I know Mr H feels strongly about his complaint  he has clearly made significant effort in 
bringing his complaint  but taking all of the above into account, I dont uphold the complaint. 
I appreciate no doubt that Mr H will be disappointed with my conclusion, but I hope I have 
been able to explain how and why I have reached it.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman