DRN-1507270
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the customer service she received from Automobile Association 
Insurance Services Limited (AA) when she called to claim on her roadside assistance policy.
What happened
In July 2019 Mrs T contacted AA because there was a dragging noise with her car. She says 
she spoke to a really rude person who told her they wouldnt come out to her because her 
account was in arrears. She was transferred through to the accounts department, who 
couldnt explain whatd happened. Because shed been on the phone for a long time at this 
point, AA said theyd call her back the next day at 2pm.
Mrs T didnt get this call, so she called AA back at 4pm. She was told the person whod 
planned to call her back was off, and she was told AA had a problem with some letters that 
were due to be sent out but werent. AA told Mrs T she was two payments in arrears.
Ultimately Mrs T and AA agreed shed pay one month of payments shed missed, AA would 
waive the other one. But, unhappy with everything that happened, she complained. In 
complaining, Mrs T mentioned shed had to get her car fixed, and pay train costs, and wants 
to know what would have happened if AA had come out to her car.
AA replied to Mrs Ts complaint. They accepted theyd made mistakes and were sorry for the 
length of time shed been on the phone, and for not sending the relevant letters. They paid 
her £50.
Mrs T didnt accept this and asked us to look into things as she wasnt happy with how shed 
been treated. One of our investigators did so and felt that AA had acted fairly by paying Mrs 
T £50 and waiving one months worth of arrears.
Mrs T didnt agree. She was unhappy our investigator agreed AA had done enough to put 
things right and had she known her payments were in arrears with AA shed have sorted it. 
Because of this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained I cant consider any claim related issues on this complaint  
but I can look at the service Mrs T has been provided with when AA have been administering 
the contract shes got with them.
Its not in dispute that AA have made a mistake in not contacting Mrs T to let her know her 
account was two months in arrears. Im aware this was discussed on the phone, and its 
here this issue came to light, and where Mrs T has significant concerns over the service she 
was given.
So, Ive listened to those calls to decide whether I think AAs answer to the complaint of £50, 
and waiving one months fee, is fair.
On the first call Mrs T was told her account was under investigation. Mrs T asked why, but 
the adviser said theyd need to check and find out. The adviser then said her system wasnt 
working and transferred Mrs T through to a colleague.
In this follow on call the adviser explained to Mrs T there were arrears on the account, which 
Mrs T said she didnt know anything about because shed got a letter recently saying there 
were no arrears. Mrs T asked to speak to a manager, but after the agent spoke to them they 
said the department Mrs T was speaking to werent the right people, and suggested putting 
her through to another department. Mrs T wasnt very happy with the adviser not putting her 
through to the manager as shed asked, but was transferred over.
In the final call on this day it was confirmed arrears were on the account, and the adviser 
was able to agree to remove one months arrears, but Mrs T would need to pay the 
remaining payment if she wanted AA to come out to her car. Mrs T then asked to speak to a 
manager, and that manager explained they could see there were two payments AA hadnt 
had  but also said they couldnt explain why AA hadnt written out to Mrs T to ask for these 
payments. The manager said if they took the one remaining payment Mrs T owed then they 
could come out to her, but Mrs T said she wasnt prepared to do that at this time because of 
the issues that had come up.
In listening to these calls its clear Mrs T is very upset with AAs mistake in not taking the two 
payments and the subsequent problems this has caused her. Each call was transferred 
through to someone else, and each time the call wasnt introduced  so Mrs T needed to 
explain the problem from the start and go through security. I think thats disappointing 
because its undoubtedly caused Mrs T further frustration.
So, although its clear AA made a mistake, Mrs Ts also not disputed she owed these two 
payments. I think its a shame AA didnt handle things better and made an error in not taking 
payments the first time around. But I think towards the end of the phone calls Mrs T had AA 
tried to help her and given her a solution for someone to come out and see her. So, taking 
everything into account, I think £50 compensation, and waiving the one-month fee worth 
over £60, is a fair outcome for this complaint.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman