DRN-3623986
The complaint
Mr O complains that his agreement with Close Brothers Limited was terminated and the 
vehicle seized and sold at auction.
What happened
In March 2017 Mr O was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Close Brothers.
In January 2019 the agreement was terminated by Close Brothers due to non-payment. The 
debt was transferred to a third party for collection.
In February 2021 the car was seized and sold at auction.
Mr O wasnt aware that the car had been seized. He reported it to the police as stolen.
When he discovered what had happened, Mr D complained to Close Brothers. He was 
unhappy that the car had been sold and said he didnt think he should have to pay the 
amount remaining under the agreement because he was no longer able to use the car.
In response, Close Brothers said it had transferred Mr Os account to a third party and that it 
no longer had any interest in the car.
Mr O remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he didnt think Close Brothers could be 
held responsible for a third party repossessing the car.
After the investigator had issued his view, Close Brothers provided some further information. 
It said it had terminated the agreement in January 2019 and transferred the debt to a third 
party on the understanding that Mr O would retain the car and enter into a payment 
agreement with the third party. Close Brothers said that in these circumstances, it was 
necessary for it to register its interest in the car but that for a  period after March 2021 it 
omitted to do this and it was during this period that the car was seized by the police or the 
highways agency and sold. Close Brothers said it hadnt received any funds from the sale of 
the car.
Our investigator issued a second view in which he said that he didnt think Close Brothers 
had acted fairly. He said that Close Brothers had failed to manually register its interest in the 
car when it shouldve done, and that had it done so, this wouldve been checked before the 
car was sold and the car wouldve been returned to Close Brothers or the sale proceeds paid 
to Close Brothers and applied towards the outstanding balance under the agreement. The 
investigator said the market value of the car at the time it was sold at auction was £11,564, 
which was more than the amount outstanding under the agreement. He said that Close 
Brothers should deduct the outstanding balance from the market value, settle the agreement 
and pay the balance to Mr O.
Close Brothers didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Os account. I can see that the agreement was terminated in January 2019 
due to non-payment. Creation sent notice of sums in arrears letters and a default notice to 
Mr O, so Im satisfied that he was aware that his payments had fallen into arrears.
Close Brothers has explained that notwithstanding termination of the agreement, it allowed 
Mr O to retain the car and transferred the debt to a third party to set up a payment plan. 
Close Brothers said that Mr O had initially made payments to the third party and later made 
intermittent standing order payments to it directly. Close Brothers said that at the date of 
termination the amount outstanding under the agreement was £6198.40.
Close Brothers has acknowledged that there was a period of time after March 2021 when it 
failed to register its interest in the car. This appears to have coincided with the time when the 
car was seized and sold.
I havent seen any information about the identity of the person or authority who seized the 
car and/or why the car was seized. Close Brothers has said that the car was seized because 
it wasnt taxed. But I havent seen any evidence to confirm this.
I cant be certain why the car was seized. However, if Close Brothers had done what it 
should have done and registered its interest in the car, then the party who seized the car 
and/or the auction house wouldve contacted Close Brothers and the car would either have 
been returned to Close brothers, or  the net sale proceeds wouldve been paid over to Close 
Brothers. Because of Close Brothers failure to register its interest in the car, Mr O has been 
financially disadvantaged, because the car was sold and the net sale proceeds havent been 
applied to reduce his outstanding balance.
Based on what Ive seen, the car was worth more than the outstanding balance at the time it 
was sold. I think Close Brothers need to put things right here by putting Mr O back in the 
position he wouldve bee in had Close Brothers done what it shouldve done and registered 
its interest in the car. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Close Brothers Limited must write off the outstanding balance under the 
agreement and pay the difference between the current outstanding balance and the value of 
the car at the time it was sold (£11,564) to Mr O.
Close Brothers Limited must also pay 8% simple interest on the amount paid to Mr O from 
the date of sale of the car to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Close Brothers Limited must take the steps 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2022.
 
Emma DavyOmbudsman