DRN-3758096
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services 
irresponsibly gave him a loan that he couldnt afford. For simplicity, I will refer to the 
business throughout as Bank of Ireland. 
What happened
In December 2020, Mr F applied for a loan with Bank of Ireland. He was given a loan of 
£4,000 and the monthly repayment was £102.19. 
In 2021, Mr F complained to Bank of Ireland to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Bank of Ireland didnt agree. So, 
the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 26 September 2022, a 
section of which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional 
decision I set out the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was 
my intention not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Bank of Ireland will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Fs complaint is that Bank of Ireland made credit available that was unaffordable. Bank of 
Ireland has explained that it relied in part on information that Mr F provided at the time of 
application to assess affordability. They said they carried out a credit search in Mr Fs name 
to assess Mr Fs level of debt at that time and to understand how he had been managing 
that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, Bank of Ireland decided 
to agree to the loan of £4,000. So, there was some assessment of affordability at the time of 
the sale.
The Bank of Ireland checks showed that Mr F had over £24,000 in unsecured loans. Mr F 
recalls having more debt than this figure. But Mr F also explained that he was in the habit of 
borrowing informally from friends and family. And those borrowings wouldnt have been 
visible to Bank of Ireland on their credit check.
It is also worth noting that Mr Fs credit file was very clean at the time of the loan application. 
When I say this, I mean that Mr Fs management of his existing credit showed no recent 
history of CCJs, defaults or any late payments. So, it seemed from the credit file that at the 
point that the lending decision was made, Mr F was affording his existing credit. And so, 
Bank of Ireland were not put on notice of any reason not to agree the lending from that. And 
so, I dont think that the information that Bank of Ireland had at the time of the lending 
decision, would have led them to feel they ought to make more searching enquiries of Mr 
Fs expenditure. 
But, considering the amount of the loan Mr F was taking, the amount he would have to 
repay for it in total and his existing borrowings, I think that Bank of Ireland could have made 
more searching enquiries into Mr Fs income. I say this as the regulations suggest that they 
could have sought corroboration for the declared income. But had they sought clarification 
through payslips, I do not believe that what they would have seen anything that would have 
made the loan seem unreasonable. And this loan was reasonably modest compared to Mr 
Fs declared income.
Mr F has explained that he had a gambling habit at the time which was the prime cause of 
his existing borrowings and the one he was applying for with Bank of Ireland. But Mr F also 
told us that he had not told Bank of Ireland about the gambling habit. And, as discussed 
above, the gambling habit had not led Mr F to blemish his credit file at the time he applied 
for the loan. And Mr F has explained he had worked hard to borrow money informally from 
friends and family to repay his debts. 
I have to look at the information that was available to Bank of Ireland at the time it made its 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. Bank of Ireland was not made aware of the habit 
at the time the loans were made. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the other 
information that Bank of Ireland acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending 
decision, would have led them to think that they were remiss in not checking Mr Fs 
expenditure more closely. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Bank of Ireland provided to Mr F was unreasonable. 
I know that Mr F will be disappointed with my decision, in itself and because he has invested 
time and energy in pursuing his complaint. And I want Mr F to know that I was sorry to hear 
of the issues he has and is facing. But I want Mr F to know that I considered all the 
submissions made in this case. And having considered all the submissions in this case, 
particularly those concerning the time of the lending decision, I have not found sufficient 
evidence to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 10 October 2022. Bank of Ireland has not acknowledged receiving 
the provisional decision, made any further submissions nor asked for an extension to do so. I 
think Bank of Ireland has had sufficient time to make a further submission had it wished to 
do so. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.
Mr F has acknowledged receiving the decision and has made further submissions. Mr F is 
disappointed with the outcome of my provisional findings. So, I am proceeding to my final 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reread the entire file and all of the submissions post decision in order to reach what I 
think is a fair and reasonable decision in this complaint. In doing so, I have confined my 
comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because 
Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and 
decide whats fair in the round.
Mr F thinks my judgment is not in step with the guidance on our website. That guidance is 
general in nature. My decision is based on the particular details of Mr Fs case. And I 
consider it to be in line with our standard approach. 
Bank of Ireland procured credit information to see how Mr F was managing his credit 
before making its lending decision. And at the time that Bank of Ireland made its lending 
decision Mr F had a clean credit record. So, Mr F appeared to be managing his credit at 
that time, as he had not allowed his credit file to be adversely affected. And Mr F declared 
a good level of income and supplied some expenditure information with his application. 
And these all suggested that the new lending would be affordable. 
So, Bank of Ireland appeared to have little reason to make further enquiries into Mr Fs 
expenditure at that time based on the information it was provided by Mr F and it procured 
for itself.  
I know that Mr F is disappointed with this because had Bank of Ireland seen the bank 
statements that Mr F has supplied us in the investigation of his complaint, it is very likely his 
gambling addiction would have been evident. But as I mentioned in the provisional decision, 
Mr F did not share information about his addiction with Bank of Ireland. And so, Bank of 
Ireland were denied information that may have changed their lending decision. So, 
considering the information that Bank of Ireland did have at the time of the lending decision, I 
think they had no reason to make more searching enquiries than they did. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr F to the contrary, Im not persuaded that based on the information 
provided to Bank of Ireland, or what Bank of Ireland could see of Mr Fs management of 
other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman