DRN-2694705
The complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC provided her with poor levels of service as 
part of her banking activities.
What happened
Around July last year, Miss M complained to Barclays for the following reasons:
she experienced poor levels of service each time she communicated with Barclays 
via its online chat service  Miss M says Barclays representatives didnt always 
understand her query, failed to read through her chat history with the bank and 
provided inaccurate information;
Barclays failed to log a formal complaint despite her requests to do so;
Barclays failed to arrange a mortgage appointment with her;
the bank incorrectly cancelled a payment facility with a third party e-money payment 
provider and didnt stop a payment that she disputed;
Barclays didnt arrange an overdraft facility for her;
Miss M also asked the bank to ensure her ISA account could be switched without any 
issues or delays;
Miss M is concerned that Barclays sent her information to an old address and that 
the bank hadnt closed an account she asked it to close.
Miss M says shes been left stressed because of what Barclays has done wrong and would 
like it to pay her £500 compensation.
Barclays agreed it had provided a poor level of service at times and paid Miss M £125 
compensation. The bank says Miss M missed the deadline for the overdraft facility because 
she wrote to the complaints team, which caused a delay. Barclays added that Miss M can 
transfer her ISA using the switch service and that it had closed one of her accounts as per 
her request.
Miss M remained unhappy and asked this service to step in. Our investigator acknowledged 
that the bank hadnt always provided Miss M with the level of service she expected and 
concluded that the compensation already paid was fair. Miss M didnt agree and asked for a 
final review of her complaint.
While this complaint has been with our service, Miss M has raised further concerns about 
her interactions with Barclays. My understanding is that these concerns are being dealt with 
by us and Barclays under a separate complaint, so I wont be commenting on these issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be instructing Barclays to do anything more in relation to this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Looking at the banks response to Miss Ms complaint, Barclays seems to have accepted 
that its service didnt live up to Miss Ms expectations:
Barclays agrees that its chat service didnt live up to expectations because messages 
were inconsistent, inaccurate information was given to Miss M and there were often 
typos;
Barclays agrees that it failed to properly advise Miss M of its complaints process and 
raise a formal complaint when Miss M asked it to do so;
Barclays confirmed that it had closed the account Miss M asked it to close and that 
Miss M could use the transfer service to switch her ISA to another bank;
The bank apologised for not making a mortgage appointment when Miss M 
requested one. Barclays says that it later assumed Miss M didnt need the 
appointment given shed expressed an intention to switch to another bank.
Barclays decided to pay Miss M £125 compensation because of these failings. 
Its apparent that Miss M experienced a package of problems with the service she received 
from Barclays. Usually, I wouldnt award compensation for the individual issues above. But 
given Miss M had to deal with one issue after another and because she says this caused her 
stress, I find that its fair for Barclays to pay her compensation for the stress it has caused 
her. Had Barclays not paid anything, I wouldve asked it to pay compensation within the 
region of the £125 it has already paid Miss M. 
Miss M wants Barclays to pay £500 compensation. But this figure appears to be a punitive 
amount. My role isnt to punish Barclays  its to establish whether the bank treated Miss M 
unfairly and decide the fairest way to put things right. In this instance, £500 would be well 
beyond what I consider a fair amount of compensation. So I wont be asking Barclays to pay 
further compensation because of this. 
Miss M also expressed concerns about the way Barclays handled a transaction she disputed 
and was unhappy that an arrangement with a third-party e-money payment provider had 
been removed. Barclays says it didnt remove the authorisation and that the disputed 
payment needed to be raised with the third-party e-money payment provider. It seems 
Miss M received a refund for the relevant transaction shortly after and Barclays re-arranged 
Miss Ms set up with the e-money payment provider  even though the bank says it didnt 
cancel it in the first place. Its unclear exactly how this arrangement was removed. But it 
seems Miss M didnt lose out while it was removed and Barclays reinstated the arrangement 
within a short period. So I dont think Barclays needs to do anything further here.
I also dont think Barclays acted unreasonably when Miss M wrote to the bank to request a 
specific overdraft arrangement. Miss M is unhappy that Barclays failed to put this in place 
before the deadline for the arrangement expired. But Barclays says Miss M emailed it two 
days before the deadline and her message was directed to its complaints team. The bank 
also points out that Miss M was sent a reminder several weeks prior to this, letting her know 
about the deadline. Banks typically have different teams and departments dealing with 
different activities the bank carries out. So I dont think its unreasonable that a request 
Miss M sent to the complaints team took more than a few days to deal with. And, by that 
point, the deadline for the overdraft facility had expired. I havent seen anything that 
suggests Miss M couldnt have reached out to the correct team or that she couldnt have 
asked Barclays about this facility sooner. Nor have I seen anything that makes me think 
Barclays unreasonably delayed Miss Ms request. So Im not of the view that Miss M has 
been treated unfairly because of this. Miss M is also concerned that Barclays sent information to an incorrect address whilst she 
was trying to update her address with the bank. At this stage, I havent seen anything that 
suggests the bank sent any information to anywhere other than the address it had on its 
system. I understand Miss M experienced some delays updating her address because the 
bank needed to verify it was indeed Miss M requesting the change. But I cant fairly say that 
the bank did something wrong by writing to Miss M at the address it held on it records. 
For these reasons, I wont be asking Barclays to do anything more to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman