DRN-3420878
The complaint
Mr J complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited incorrectly quoted the value 
of his pension fund. He says he based his retirement planning on incorrect information.
Mr Js represented by Mr C, an independent financial adviser.
What happened
Mr J held four pension plans with Prudential, which were invested in a PruGrowth fund. In 
December 2020, he received a pensions valuation which stated that the total value of his 
pension fund was £71,510.10. But in March 2021, he received a further valuation which 
stated that the total value of the fund was £68,587.19. This suggested thered been a fall in 
the total value of the fund of £2,922.91.
Mr C made a complaint to Prudential about the drop in fund value. He questioned how the 
value of Mr Js pensions could have dropped, given thered been no downward adjustment in 
the unit price of Mr Js fund.
In April 2021, Mr J transferred three of his pension plans to another provider. He left the 
remaining plan, valued at £47,912.83, in the PruGrowth fund.
Prudential initially responded to Mr Js complaint in July 2021. In brief, this letter stated that 
Mr Js fund value had fallen because of a bonus announcement for the with-profits fund. And 
the letter dealt with a separate complaint point relating to a delay in switching Mr Js four 
plans from one Prudential fund to the PruGrowth Fund. Prudential paid Mr J £400 
compensation to recognise the poor service it had provided.
On 15 September 2021, Prudential issued a further response to Mr Js complaint. It said that 
the response of July 2021 was technically incorrect and should be disregarded. It explained 
that the value of Mr Js pension fund had never fallen in value and it agreed with Mr C that 
there hadnt been a reduction in the unit price of the fund. It said that the statements which 
had been issued to Mr J in December 2020 and March 2021 were incorrect and had quoted 
the wrong fund values. This was due to a systems error following a systems migration, which 
had led to the incorrect pension values being included on some pension statements.
Prudential provided a copy of an accurate pension valuation, dated 15 July 2021, showing 
the value of the plans as at 17 March 2021. This showed that the total value of Mr Js 
pension fund was £68,563.66.  Prudential recognised that Mr C had carried out work in 
resolving the matter and offered to consider the cost of that work, subject to being provided 
with an invoice.
Mr J remained unhappy with Prudentials administration of his pension fund and so Mr C 
asked us to look into this complaint. Mr C said that Mr J had been in the process of retiring 
and so had relied on the fund value he was quoted in the December 2020 valuation. He felt 
Mr J should be paid the difference between the December 2020 quote and the actual fund 
valuation to compensate for the reduction in the pension benefits hed thought he would 
receive.
Ultimately, our investigator concluded that Prudential had settled Mr Js complaint fairly. She 
didnt think that hed been entitled to a pension fund of £71,510.10 and so she didnt think it 
would be fair to require Prudential to add the difference to his fund. But she did think that Mr 
J had suffered a loss of expectation and that he ought to be compensated to recognise this. 
Overall, she felt the £400 compensation Prudential had already paid Mr J was fair and 
reasonable and she didnt think it needed to pay anything more.
Mr C disagreed on Mr Js behalf and so the complaints been passed to me to decide. Its 
important that I make it clear that this decision will only consider the impact of Prudential 
providing Mr J with the incorrect fund value. I wont be considering the separate issue 
regarding the delayed switch from one Prudential fund to the PruGrowth fund. Thats 
because neither Mr J nor Mr C have asked us to look into that issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr J, I think Prudential has settled his 
complaint fairly and Ill explain why.
Its clear that Prudential has made more than one error in its dealings with Mr J and it went 
on to issue a response to his complaint which was factually incorrect. Not only did the 
December 2020 valuation set out a wrongly inflated fund value; the initial March 2021 
valuation also quoted an incorrect total fund value. Prudential says that both statements 
included the wrong values due a system migration error. 
These mistakes were compounded by Prudentials first response to Mr Js complaint. Mr C 
had correctly noted that thered been no reduction in the unit price of Mr Js fund over the 
relevant time period. But despite Mr C having pointed this out to Prudential on 17 March 
2021, it initially responded to the complaint and suggested that the fund had fallen in value 
due to an announcement relating to a with-profits bonus. It was only in its September 2021 
response to this complaint that Prudential correctly informed Mr J that there hadnt been a 
fall in the value of his fund; that the previous valuations had been wrong and provided him 
with a copy of the accurate valuation statement. 
Given Prudential acknowledges it made these errors, I think it was appropriate and 
reasonable for it to consider how to put things right. It paid Mr J a total of £400 compensation 
and it also offered to pay Mr Cs costs for the wasted time that dealing with the complaint 
had caused his business. So Ive gone on to think about whether this was a fair and 
reasonable response from Prudential.
First, Ive considered whether Prudentials mistakes caused Mr J any actual, identifiable 
financial loss. Mr C says that Mr J based his retirement planning on the December 2020 
valuation he was sent. I dont doubt that it was frustrating and upsetting for Mr J when he 
discovered, in March 2021, that his total fund was broadly £2900 less than hed originally 
thought it would be. But Mr Js fund never had been worth £71,510.10 and this means he 
was never entitled to access or transfer that amount of money. So I dont think I could fairly 
direct Prudential to effectively top-up his pension fund by paying him the difference between 
the incorrectly quoted pension fund value and his actual total fund value.
Mr C says that in January 2021, he and Mr J had a conversation in which it was decided to 
transfer all of Mr Js pension plans from Prudential to another provider. But that it was then 
thought best for Mr Js largest pension plan to remain with Prudential while the complaint 
was looked into. The transfer of three of Mr Js pensions plans took place in April 2021. Whilst I accept Mr J may have originally wished to transfer his whole fund to another 
provider, it was Mr Js or his advisers decision to leave one pension behind whilst the 
complaint was investigated. He didnt need to do this. In any event, neither he nor Mr C have 
complained that he was materially disadvantaged by the fourth plan remaining with 
Prudential. 
As Ive set out above, I dont doubt that Prudentials mistakes caused Mr J frustration and 
upset. He was wrongly led to believe that his pension was worth broadly £2,900 than it 
actually was. This clearly resulted in Mr J unnecessarily suffering a loss of expectation. It 
must also have been even more frustrating when Prudential provided Mr J with an incorrect 
explanation as to what had caused the apparent drop in values. Mr J wasnt given accurate 
information about the value of his fund by Prudentials complaints team until September 
2021  around six months after this had been queried.  (Although I do note that a copy of the 
correct values appears to have been prepared and addressed to Mr Cs office on 15 July 
2021  around three months after the complaint had first been made).
I think that it was appropriate for Prudential to compensate Mr J for its poor service and for 
his loss of expectation. And in my view, £400 compensation is a reasonable sum to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience I think this matter is likely to have caused Mr J. 
Overall, Im satisfied that while Prudential did make clear errors here which caused Mr J 
undoubted trouble and upset; it has settled Mr Js complaint fairly. Therefore, Im not 
directing it to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman