DRN-4323444
The complaint
Mr O complains that a car he acquired with credit from MI Vehicle Finance Limited trading as
Mann Island (MI) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr O entered into a credit agreement with MI on 25 March 2022 to acquire a used car. The
credit to buy the car was granted by MI under a hire purchase agreement. This meant MI
was the owner of the car and Mr O was, in essence, paying for the use of it. As owner, MI
was responsible for the quality of the car.
The cash price of the car was £25,000 and the total amount owed under the agreement
including interest came to £29,483.80. This was to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of
£491.38 and a final repayment of £492.38. The vehicle was over four and a half years old
when it was supplied to Mr O and had covered 45,322 miles.
Mr O told the selling dealer via text on 21 April that he was having some problems with the
car. He followed this up with an email on 26 April to say hed experienced issues with the car
since early April and wanted to return it for a full refund. The problems included a depleted
battery, an illuminated engine light and the fan and wipers running when the car wasnt on.
Mr O let the dealer know hed been in touch with MI. Mr O returned the car to the dealer on
28 April for repair. The dealer said they were unable to replicate the issues, nevertheless
they replaced the battery. Mr O said he was told on 10 May that the car was running
perfectly. He collected the car around the 11 May but continued to experience problems with
it.
The dealer had offered Mr O a full health check with a specialist dealer and he took the car
to the specialist on 24 May. The specialist found an intermittent fault with the power relay for
the inter cooler fan. The dealer said that the specialist quoted for a replacement relay for the
fuse box but Mr O declined to have this fixed. However, Mr O said that the specialist couldnt 
get hold of the dealer to discuss this and so couldnt fix the car that day. The specialist sent 
an email directly to the dealers mechanic on the afternoon of the 24th in which it confirmed 
the cost to date was £60 and the total cost including the repair would be £154.18. Mr O 
collected the car and paid £60 to cover the diagnostic work.
Mr O said he continued to have issues with the car into June including the car pulling to the
left, air getting into the passenger side of the car, the air-conditioning blowing hot and cold
when off and other mechanical faults. The dealer said that it was happy to pay for the repair
to the car identified and costed by the specialist. It said that a quote of £60 to repair an issue
on a £25,000 car didnt mean that it was unfit for purpose. The dealer also said that Mr O
had raised additional issues after his initial complaint which were unrelated and it should be
given the opportunity to investigate these.
MI didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. It said that although Mr O raised issues relating to the
battery, the wipers and the fan within 30 days of the car being supplied to him, the dealer
didnt find any of these faults present. A health check at a specialist dealer later found an
issue with the power relay. MI said that the power relay issue was unrelated to Mr Os initial
complaint and that it wasnt raised within 30 days. It said that the dealer had offered to cover
the cost of this repair but Mr O didnt accept this as he wanted to reject the car. MI referred
to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) which states that if a fault is found outside of 30
days of supply, the dealer has a right to provide a repair in the first instance.
Mr O wasnt happy with this response. He said he had raised the issue of the fan in his initial
complaint but mistakenly referred to it as an alternator fan and not a cooling fan. He referred
his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into things. They found that the fault with the fans power
relay was likely to have been there when the car was supplied and so, in the circumstances
of this case, the car was of unsatisfactory quality. However, our investigator also found that
Mr O didnt exercise his right to return the car until 26 April. As the car had been supplied to
him on 25 March this meant Mr O was outside of the 30 day limit to reject the car as set out
in the CRA. Our investigator concluded that the dealers offer of repair was therefore fair and
recommended this resolution along with a refund of the £60 Mr O had paid for the specialist
diagnosis.
Mr O was unhappy with this recommendation. He said he didnt acquire the car until the
31 March and so he was within the 30 day limit to reject it. He asked for his complaint to
come to an ombudsman to decide and it came to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 July 2023 explaining why I thought Mr Os complaint 
should be upheld. I shared the information Id relied on with both parties and allowed some 
time for them to comment on what Id said or provide any new information for me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the case again, including what both parties said in response to my 
provisional decision, I remain of the view that Mr Os complaint should succeed and that my 
proposals for putting things right for him are fair. Ill set out the reasons for my conclusions 
again in this final decision and address the parties responses where appropriate. 
Let me begin, as I did in my provisional decision, by acknowledging everyones strength of 
feeling about what happened. I understand that prior to Mr O emailing the dealer on 26 April 
2022 hed visited the garage and had a discussion with the dealer about what to do with the 
car. The dealer had another car in stock which Mr O felt would be a suitable swap but they 
couldnt agree the terms of this arrangement. It seems Mr O wanted to leave the car with the 
dealer but the dealer wouldnt accept it.
When the fault with the power relay was diagnosed in May 2022 the dealer was happy to
pay for this repair, but said that the fault was minor and didnt warrant the return of the car. 
MI didnt uphold Mr Os complaint because it said the fault with the power relay for the
cooling fan diagnosed by the specialist was unrelated to the issues hed originally raised with
the dealer and so it should be allowed the opportunity to repair this.
The CRA implies a term into any contract to supply goods that those goods will be of
satisfactory quality. Satisfactory means what a reasonable person would expect, taking into
account the description of the goods, the price and any other relevant circumstances. The
quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like theirfitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and
durability. The presence of a fault doesnt necessarily mean that the goods provided were of
unsatisfactory quality  it depends on the circumstances.
Ive considered whether or not the faults Mr O experienced with the car were present or
developing when it was supplied to him and, if they were, does this mean the car was of
unsatisfactory quality? If the car was of unsatisfactory quality, where does that leave Mr O
now bearing in mind the time limits in the CRA and the circumstances of this case?
Was the car of unsatisfactory quality when supplied?
Mr O said the faults occurred on or before 9 April 2022 and provided photos of the battery
depletion and dashboard lights, and a video of the car with a flat battery as evidence.
The dealer responded to Mr Os request on 26 April to return the car with an offer to repair it.
It said that the battery wouldnt be covered under warranty as the photos showed that
Mr O had the keys in the ignition with the car off which would run the battery down. The
dealer also said that Mr O wouldnt be entitled to a refund because hed said that the
problems werent present when the car was supplied.
Mr O returned the car to the dealer on the 28 April. The dealer said it ran numerous tests
and took the car for long test drives but didnt manage to replicate the issues. I note that the
dealer said to Mr O in an email on 4 May To confirm as per email from finance company the
issues we are looking for are battery, wipers scraping and alternator fan. Can you explain
what an alternator fan is as there is no such thing. It offered to have the car booked in with a
specialist dealer for repair.
Mr O emailed MI on 6 May to say that the dealer hadnt managed to replicate the faults. He
said that he was happy to take the car back if it was fixed but he was adamant that he didnt
want to take ownership of a faulty car. MI advised Mr O to collect the car from the dealer and
take it for a test drive. It said Mr O could return the car for investigation with a specialist if he
experienced or still felt there was a fault with it. Mr O confirmed that hed collect the car and
said it might take a few days or a week for anything to show up as the problems he was
having were intermittent.
Immediately after this, Mr O emailed the dealer to say that he would accept the car back for
a trial period if the dealer was satisfied the faults were fixed. He said if it still wasnt right then
they could take the car to a specialist. As mentioned, the specialist diagnosed a fault with the
power relay. The dealer confirmed in an email to MI that the issue found was an intermittent
fault with the inter cooler fan.
Im satisfied that Mr Os initial complaint to the dealer included the problems hed 
experienced with the cooling fan. He didnt refer to it as such but I think its reasonable to
accept that he was mistaken in his naming of this part. It seems to me that the dealer
accepted liability for the repair of this but didnt accept that this meant the car it supplied was
of unsatisfactory quality.
Given how soon after acquiring the car these issues manifested and that the fault was
intermittent I think its reasonable to conclude that they were there or developing when
supplied. I also think its reasonable to conclude that the car should have been provided free
of these defects, given its age and mileage. As mentioned, the car was over four and a half
months old when supplied and had travelled 45,322 miles (as per the dealers invoice dated
25 March). By the 3 May it had travelled 46,621 miles (as per dealers diagnostic report)
which presumably included the dealers long test drives. Ive concluded that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied.Did Mr O exercise his right to reject within 30 days?
The CRA gives customers solutions if they find themselves with faulty goods that arent of
satisfactory quality. They can reject the goods if the fault happens within 30 days, or have
the goods repaired or replaced. Outside of this period the supplier has the chance to repair
the goods before anything else happens. Consumers must exercise their right to reject within
the time limit of 30 days as specified by the CRA otherwise they lose this right. The CRA
says that the right is exercised if the consumer indicates to the trader that they are rejecting
the goods and treating the contract as at an end.
In this case Mr O told the dealer that he wanted to reject the car by email on 26 April. The
dealer said that that Mr O had possession of the car from 25 March and so didnt reject the
car within the 30 day time limit. Although the finance hadnt been arranged by then, the
dealer said they had been happy for Mr O to have the car because he was known to them 
and at that time it was taking days for the disbursements to come through from finance 
companies. The sales invoice has this date and Mr O signed the finance agreement on that 
date.
Mr O disputes this. He said that the finance wasnt granted until the 29 March and he
collected the car on the 31st. The invoice from the broker to MI is dated the 28th, the
welcome letter to Mr O from MI is dated the 29th and his first payment under the agreement
was made on the 29 April by direct debit. The registration certificate (V5C) states Mr O is the
registered keeper of the car from the 1 April 2022. Mr O taxed the car on 1 April and insured
it from the 2nd.
Section 22 of the CRA states that the time limit for exercising the short-term right to reject is
the end of 30 days beginning with the first day after these have all happened:
ownership or (in the case of a contract for the hire of goods, a hire-purchase 
agreement or a conditional sales contract) possession of the goods has been 
transferred to the consumer,
the goods have been delivered, and
where the contract requires the trader to install the goods or take other action to 
enable the consumer to use them, the trader has notified the consumer that the 
action has been taken.
Leaving aside the contested point of exactly when the car came into Mr Os possession, MI
confirmed that the finance wasnt paid out until the 29 March and the V5C is dated the 1
April. As per the CRA the 30 day limit begins with the first day possession has been
transferred, goods have been delivered and other action which enables the consumer to use
the goods has happened. In this case I think its reasonable to consider that the other
actions which needed to happen for Mr O to use the car included the finance disbursement 
and Mr O becoming the registered keeper. The latter is a condition of the finance agreement
(paragraph 3.3). So Ive concluded that Mr O did exercise his short term right to reject within 
the time limit specified in the CRA.
What should happen now to put things right?
Mr O has been consistent in his request to reject the car. He accepted its return from the
dealer on advice from MI that if the issues continued he could have it looked at by a
specialist. Mr O continued to experience issues with the car and the fault was diagnosed on
the 24 May. On 28 May 2022 Mr O told MI that he wanted to reject the car and would stop 
his finance payments. He said that he had lost too many days work because of the car and it
was causing too much stress as it seemed there were daily issues with it. Ive concluded that 
Mr O should now be allowed to reject the car.I said in my provisional decision in July that My starting point is that the car should be 
returned to MI at no cost to Mr O and the agreement terminated. However, events have 
moved on since 26 April 2022 when Mr O first asked to reject the car and putting Mr O back 
in the position he would have been in had his rejection been accepted earlier isnt 
straightforward.
Mr O told us in February 2023 that he has continued to drive the car for short journeys
because the battery would die often if he simply let it sit and that the mileage was
approximately 49,000. He said that he cant rely on the car because when he tries to start it,
even if its been driven the day before, it takes a long time to start and occasionally needs to
be jump-started. Nevertheless Mr O has now had the use of the car for some 15 months 
(excluding periods when the car was in for repair) and its travelled over 3,700 miles. I think 
its fair that Mr O pays something to MI as the owner of the car for the use he's made of it. 
The monthly payments under the agreement are £491 but I dont think amount is a fair 
reflection of the use Mr O has had. Its clear Mr O didnt make as much use of the car as he 
could have, given the mileage, and his enjoyment of it was no doubt curtailed by the issues 
he experienced. I think a fair amount Mr O should pay is £250 for each month he had use of
the car.
In addition, Mr O has experienced distress and inconvenience by being supplied with a faulty
car. Mr O told us that this matter has caused immense stress to himself and his family and
would like to see things resolved as soon as possible. There isnt a specific calculation for
awards to compensate for the emotional impact of errors. We have an approach which Ive
borne in mind alongside everything else when making this decision. As set out on our
website, an award of over £300 and up to £750 might be fair where the impact of a mistake
has caused considerable upset and worry and significant inconvenience that needed extra
effort to sort out, typically over weeks or months. I think an award in this range would be
appropriate here.
My understanding is that Mr O hasnt been making payments towards the car for some time
and his account is currently in arrears.
Mr O said in said in response to my provisional decision that he had registered the car as 
off-road (SORN) in June 2023 and the current mileage was 53,735. Mr O said that he hasnt 
had normal use of the car as he would easily have travelled 1,000 miles in most months. He 
also asked me to reconsider the number of months that he should be liable to pay a usage 
charge. 
This means that Mr O has driven the car around 8,400 miles. The annual mileage allowance 
under the agreement was 18,000. As Id said in my provisional decision, its clear Mr O didnt 
make as much use of the car as he could have, given the mileage, and his enjoyment of it 
was no doubt curtailed by the issues he experienced. Although Mr O has since confirmed 
that hes driven it further than Id quoted in my provisional decision, my conclusions still 
stand. 
The car is shown as SORN on the government website and the last MOT recorded is from 
February 2022. I remain of the view that the original monthly payment of £491 isnt a fair 
reflection of Mr Os use of the car and that an amount of £250 is a fair and reasonable 
amount to pay for each month hes had the use of it up to a maximum of 15 months. This 
means the most MI can charge Mr O as a usage charge is £3,750.  
MI said in response to my provisional decision that it wished to know the current mileage of 
the car and be provided with photographs of it to assess its condition. Mr O told us what the 
current mileage is but hasnt provided proof of this or mentioned the condition of the car. I havent considered this point further or made any findings on it. If MI choses to apply 
additional charges to Mr Os account on collection of the car other than what Ive considered 
here and if these charges give rise to a dispute which cant be resolved between the parties, 
then Mr O can refer another complaint to us about these. 
Id mentioned in my provisional decision that Mr O hadnt been making payments to his 
account for some time and was in arrears. Mr O said in his response to us that he would 
need to repay his outstanding balance in instalments as hes suffering severe financial 
hardship. Id remind MI of its obligation to treat Mr O fairly and sympathetically regarding his 
debt which may mean agreeing an affordable repayment plan with him.
Putting things right
MI now needs to:
End the agreement with nothing for Mr O to pay going forwards and collect the car at 
no cost to him;
Limit Mr Os liability to £250 a month for each month hes had the use of the car to a 
maximum of 15 months;
Reduce this adjusted balance further by £60 being the amount Mr O paid for the fault 
diagnosis by the specialist in May 2022; 
Consider all payments Mr O made towards the agreement as payments towards this 
adjusted balance;
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Os credit file when 
the adjusted balance has been cleared;
Pay Mr O an amount of £500 to reflect the distress and inconvenience this matter 
has caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I am upholding Mr Os complaint about MI Vehicle 
Finance Limited trading as Mann Island and it now needs to put things right for him as Ive 
outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman