DRN-2900001
The complaint
Mr A complained that TSB Bank plc wouldnt remove a default on his credit file in respect of 
an unarranged overdraft with them. He said they hadnt told him about this.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr A applied for a mortgage. But his application was declined, so he 
checked his credit file. It showed that there was a default recorded by TSB for £82.
Mr A contacted TSB. He told them that the default should be removed as the outstanding 
debt had been repaid and satisfied. He then made a complaint to TSB. He said the default 
was still registered but was now shown as satisfied. Mr A said that TSB hadnt told him he 
was overdrawn, or that they would register a default on his credit file.
TSB told Mr A that theyd written to him about his unarranged overdraft more than once and 
explained what might happen if he didnt repay it. But Mr A insists he didnt receive any 
notifications from them. TSB said that Mr A didnt respond to their letters. So, in line with 
their terms and conditions, they closed his account and a default was registered against his 
credit file. 
TSB didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They closed Mr As complaint and told him 
that he could refer matters to this service if he was still unhappy. So, Mr A asked us to 
investigate his complaint for him.
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint. He said that TSB had made an 
adequate effort to inform him that hed entered into an unarranged overdraft. He also thought 
that TSB had made Mr A aware of the potential consequences of not repaying what he 
owed. He didnt think that TSB had made a mistake here.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigator. He said that hed tried to repay the outstanding 
amount but couldnt because TSB had closed his account. So, he asked for his complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A opened a Classic Essentials account with TSB in October 2013. TSBs records also 
show that he registered for TSBs online banking. But he didnt register to receive 
correspondence online. So, all letters were sent to him through the post.
When he opened his account, Mr A signed, and was provided with a copy of, TSBs account 
terms and conditions, their Personal banking terms and their Privacy policy.
TSB said that the Classic Essentials account does not allow for an overdraft facility to be 
added to it. They said that in most cases, they will prevent an unplanned overdraft being 
used. But they explained that there are occasions when the account may go overdrawn. This 
is explained within their Classic Essentials Account terms.
Ive read TSBs Classic Essentials account product conditions. They say, In the rare event 
that you accidentally borrow money from us, you wont be charged any interest or fees. This 
might happen if you make a payment on a plane, for example and we cant check at the time 
whether you have enough money. If this happens, you must pay us back as soon as 
possible. If we ask you to, youll need to pay it back straight away.
TSB said that in Mr As case, his account went overdrawn, without arrangement on three 
occasions between December 2018 and October 2019. On each occasion, TSB wrote to Mr 
A to let him know. Ive seen copies of their letters and each one was sent to Mr A at the 
address they held for him. This matches the address provided to this service by Mr A.
On each occasion, TSB sent an unarranged overdraft notice which told Mr A how much he 
owed. They asked Mr A to repay the unarranged overdraft within 30 days. They also 
explained that if the amount wasnt repaid, they may report his account arrears to the credit 
reference agencies. They provided details of where he could receive free debt advice, if 
required.
On each occasion they sent a further letter, after 14 days, headed Reminder of unarranged 
overdraft. These reminded Mr A of the situation and what might happen. When Mr A hadnt 
replied, they sent a further letter headed Final reminder of unarranged overdraft.
On the first two occasions, Mr A did repay the amount that was owed. The third occasion 
saw Mr As account overdrawn £92.48 on 2 October 2019. TSB sent letters to him on 3 
October, 8 October and 3 December 2019. Mr A paid £10 into the account on 21 December 
2019 reducing the amount owed to £82.48. But there appears to be no record that he 
contacted TSB in response to their letters.
TSBs Final Reminder letter of 3 December 2019 gave Mr A 30 days to repay the money 
he owed. It said, If you do not, we will register a default for this debt at the credit reference 
agenciesThis information will stay on their records for six years and will impact your ability 
to obtain credit in the future. TSB said that Mr A didnt repay what was owed within the 30 
days advised. They also said there is no record that Mr A contacted them to discuss the 
situation. So, in January 2020, TSB closed Mr As account and the debt was recorded as a 
default with the credit reference agencies. They were entitled to do this in the circumstances.
Mr A claims that he didnt receive any letters or notifications from TSB in relation to the 
unarranged overdraft that occurred in October 2019. But TSB have shown that they sent 
their letters to the correct address. So, I cant reasonably hold TSB responsible if their letters 
werent delivered. They wouldnt have had any control over this. I also think they did 
everything they could to inform Mr A of the situation and any potential consequences.
I appreciate that Mr A will be disappointed, but I cant see that TSB did anything wrong here. 
They made reasonable attempts to contact Mr A and provided adequate notice for him to 
take steps to rectify the situation. Unfortunately, and in the absence of any contact from Mr 
A, I believe that TSB were left with no other option but to do what they did. 
Although Mr A said that he did visit a TSB branch to repay the debt, this appears to have 
been after the accounts closure and, therefore, after the final date given by TSB.
I also wont be asking TSB to remove the default from Mr As credit file. Its important that the 
information held at credit reference agencies provides an accurate record of what actually 
happened. Mr As account was overdrawn without arrangement, and it wasnt repaid within 
the timescales that TSB reasonably requested, so it did fall into default. Thats what Mr As 
credit file shows.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman