DRN-1419885
 
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Zenith Insurance plcs handling of his car insurance policy.
Reference to Zenith includes their agents.
What happened
Mr Bs car was insured with Zenith. On 15 May 2018, Mr B was involved in a minor accident 
with a campervan. Mr B said the other driver was to blame for the accident.
Mr B told Zenith that he didnt want to claim on his own policy as he didnt want his claims 
history to be affected. He told Zenith that he wanted the other driver to admit liability first and 
for them to pay to have his car repaired.
Zenith told the other drivers insurer that Mr B wasnt at fault for the accident. Zenith provided 
the other insurer Mr Bs account, a sketch and other information to convince them that Mr B 
was faultless. The other driver didnt claim against Mr B. And they didnt accept being at fault 
for the accident. But they did say they were willing to accept a 50/50 split liability. That 
means that both Mr B and the other driver would be held equally to blame for the accident.
Mr B disagreed and urged Zenith to get an admission out of the other driver and for his car 
to be repaired. Zenith explained the process to Mr B. They said in order for Zenith to be able 
to put pressure on the other side and to take the matter forward, and ultimately to court if 
necessary, Mr B would have to first claim on his policy. Once he did that Zenith would repair 
his car under his policy which would mean that Zenith have an outlay (the cost of the repair 
to Mr Bs car). And that outlay would mean Zenith suffered a financial loss which would then 
give them grounds to take action against the other drivers insurer and take the matter to 
court. But Zenith explained that without that happening, that is until they had an outlay, they 
couldnt apply to the courts to try to recover anything. And their hands were tied and they 
could not take any action against the other side other than trying to convince them to admit 
liability.
Mr B refused to claim on his policy and insisted that Zenith pursue the other drivers insurer 
for an admission of liability. Zenith said the best they could do was to accept the offer of a 
50/50 split in liability. In January 2019, Mr B contacted the other drivers insurer directly. 
Soon after that the other drivers insurer told Zenith that they would settle Mr Bs claim for 
the damage to his car in full on a without prejudice basis.
Mr B complained. He felt that Zeniths service was poor; they were not proactive; they failed 
to get the other insurer to admit liability; they didnt obtain the other sides evidence; they 
wrongly put pressure on him to agree to a 50/50 split in liability; and his car remained 
damaged for a long time. 
Mr B also said that the other driver and her insurer acted fraudulently by not admitting fault 
and thereby depriving him of having his car repaired. Mr B added that Zenith attempted to 
defraud me by trying to coerce me into admitted shared liability for an accident I was 
stationary in. They refused to carry out an investigation and did not act at any
time in my best interests. In fact, they appeared to be acting in [the other insurers] interests 
at every stage, as if this is a common strategy for insurance companies to take in order to 
increase the maximum number of policyholders premiums. When I stated to [Zenith] that I 
believed insurance fraud was occurring and I wanted action taken they refused to do this 
and they also refused to supply me with any correspondence between themselves and [the 
other insurer].
Zenith didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B didn't think that was fair so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He felt that Zenith hadnt done 
anything wrong. As Mr B didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr B, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
In his complaint, Mr B has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues. My role is 
to decide if Zenith have dealt with Mr B in a fair and reasonable way. I should clarify that 
Mr B felt his complaint should be directed at another business and not Zenith. The other 
business was Zeniths designated claims handler dealing with the claim. They were acting 
on Zeniths behalf as their agent. Its therefore correct that Mr Bs complaint is against Zenith 
as ultimately theyre responsible for their agents actions.
Often disputes over which driver was at fault for an accident can take a long time to decide. 
In some cases, they can take years to resolve. In Mr Bs case it took around seven months 
before the other drivers insurer agreed to pay for Mr Bs damage. I have looked at Zeniths 
actions carefully. And on the whole I think that they have dealt with matters reasonably. They 
were proactive in contacting the other insurer to try and convince them to admit liability; and 
Zenith asked the other insurer to provide their evidence to back up their claim that there 
should be a 50.50 split in liability. And I think Zeniths suggestion that a 50/50 split in liability 
was appropriate was reasonable because there was no independent evidence to support Mr 
Bs version of events; the engineer who examined Mr Bs car said it wasnt possible to say 
which party was at fault from the damage alone; and without Mr B claiming on his own policy 
Zenith couldnt take the matter further. And ultimately, as Zenith explained, in the 
circumstances Zenith couldnt have forced the other driver or her insurer to hand over 
evidence or provide a statement. 
I think the matter could have been resolved sooner had Mr B cooperated with Zenith and 
claimed against his policy. Insurers like Zenith have experience in dealing with claims like 
this. And they gave Mr B the correct advice, namely that their hands were tied unless Mr B 
claimed on his own policy for his damage which would have enabled Zenith to then pursue 
the other side and threaten to take the case to court if necessary. But without an outlay to 
recover, Zenith couldn't threaten court action, as it had nothing to try and recover through a 
court action. Zenith explained that to Mr B several times. But rather than follow that advice 
Mr B dictated to Zenith how he thought they should deal with the claim, which I dont think 
was helpful and it prolonged matters further. For example, when Zenith explained to Mr B 
that they had requested the statement of the other driver several times but the other insurer 
didnt provide it, Mr B told Zenith to contact the other driver directly. Given the other driver 
was represented by their own insurer that wouldnt have been possible or appropriate. And 
when Zenith explained that the other insurer wasnt cooperating with Zeniths repeated 
requests for information and that the best way forward was for Mr B to claim on his policy, 
Mr B repeatedly insisted that Zenith take action against the other driver and her insurer on the basis that they had committed fraud. Mr B instructed Zenith to report the alleged fraud to 
the police and the regulator. But Zenith explained that the other insurer was defending their 
policyholders position and that there was no evidence of fraud or criminal activity involved. 
But Mr B refused to accept that and insisted that Zenith take action they werent in a realistic 
position to take.
Mr B later accused Zenith of conspiring with the other insurer to commit fraud by effectively 
assisting them in depriving Mr B of his right to have his car repaired. Fraud is a criminal 
offence and its not within my remit to make such a finding. If Mr B has concerns that a 
criminal offence has been committed he is free to report that to the police. But on the 
evidence Ive seen, I think Zenith have acted fairly and reasonably. I should also say that 
Zenith had no incentive to work with the other insurer against Mr Bs interests. It would be in 
Zeniths interests for the other insurer to pay for the damage to Mr Bs car. Because if that 
didnt happen, Mr B could have claimed on his own policy which would have cost Zenith. So, 
Zenith too wanted the other driver to be held responsible for the accident and for their 
insurer to pay the repair costs.
But as Ive explained, I think that Zenith dealt with the matters reasonably and gave Mr B the 
correct advice and guidance which he chose not to follow.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020. 
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman