DRN-2912656
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC was responsible for direct debits being set up 
on her sole bank account in error and payments being taken as a result. 
What happened
Mrs H held two bank accounts with Barclays. One was a joint account with her husband and 
the other account was in her sole name. In March 2019, she went into a Barclays branch to 
arrange for the accounts to be amended to show her married name. Mrs H says the Barclays 
staff member experienced some systems issues but the amendments to the name were 
completed. Shortly afterwards, Mrs H received new bank cards for both accounts showing 
her married name.
Later that month, Mrs H says she started to receive letters from various companies telling 
her that her account details had been updated and, in some cases, direct debits (from the 
joint account) had been cancelled. She says that when she contacted these companies, she 
was told that Barclays had given them the details for her sole account. After Mrs Hs 
husband got in touch with Barclays, it apologised and credited the joint account with £25 as 
a goodwill gesture. 
In mid-April 2019, Mrs H received a text from Barclays telling her that her sole account was 
in excess of any arranged limits and was within her fee buffer. It said she needed to transfer 
funds to avoid going further into excess and incurring unpaid transaction fees. Mrs H 
discovered that a direct debit had been set up for an insurance company. The insurance was 
in Mrs Hs husbands name and direct debits had previously been taken from the joint 
account. Mrs H arranged for £11 to be transferred from the joint account to her sole account. 
Mrs H says her husband was told by the insurance company that Barclays had told them the 
account details had changed. Mrs H says Barclays wouldnt accept responsibility for this.
Around a week later, Mrs H received another text from Barclays telling her that the sole 
account was beyond arranged limits. She needed to transfer £63 by 3pm that day to avoid 
an £8 unpaid fee. Mrs H checked the account and found that another direct debit (which was 
previously on the joint account) had been set up for payments to a lender. Mrs H says the 
lender told her Barclays had advised them of the change of account and had provided the 
new details. Mrs H transferred money from the joint account to cover the payment.
Mrs H complained to Barclays about what had happened, but it didnt agree it had made an 
error. It said the insurance company sent instructions for the direct debit to Barclays 
electronically. It said Barclays hadnt provided Mrs Hs account details to the insurance 
company. Although one payment of £10.94 had been debited to the insurance company, 
Mrs Hs account didnt go overdrawn and no bank charges were applied. The direct debit on 
her sole account was no longer active. Barclays credited £10.94 to Mrs Hs account as 
gesture of goodwill.
Mrs H remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. 
I issued a provisional decision on 28 May 2021 where I explained why I didnt intend to 
uphold Mrs Hs complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays says it isnt responsible for direct debits being set up on Mrs Hs sole account. It 
says that when a customer changes their name on an account it prompts a message to the 
direct debit originator which often leads to them cancelling their direct debit. Its suggested 
that Mrs H may have mistakenly given companies details from her debit card on her sole 
account after theyd let her know the direct debits had been cancelled.
Barclays says it can no longer provide a screenshot for the direct debit for the payment from 
the insurance company, but it was available when it investigated Mrs Hs complaint in 
September 2019. Its sent us a copy of the notes (from September 2019) which say: 
Payment history shows  DDR set upon 31.03.19 automatic  - 1 payment of £10.94 
debited on 15.04  shows as AUDDIS. DDR now transferred and still active under joint acc 
.
Its difficult to work out exactly what happened with the limited information Barclays has 
supplied. Its told us that in order for it to have informed (the relevant companies) they should 
be taking payments from Mrs Hs sole account, Barclays wouldve had to have transferred 
the existing direct debit from the joint account to the sole account. This would have sent an 
electronic message to the originator to start to take the payments from the sole account. 
Barclays says it has no evidence of this happening. But it also hasnt provided evidence to 
show this didnt happen.
Im persuaded by Mrs Hs testimony that she was told by various companies that they 
received instructions to set up direct debits on her sole account. Shes provided a letter from 
the lender which says: Although we didnt hear from you regarding the changing of your 
direct debit details your bank did inform us for this change. Therefore, on the 20 March 2019 
we actioned the change on your direct debit details from (joint account) to (Mrs Hs sole 
account).
Mrs H has also sent a screenshot from the insurance companys systems which has a note 
dated 19 March 2019 saying ADDACS Report  bank account details updated. With 
ADDAC being Automated Direct Debit Amendment and Cancellation Service.
Having considered the information available, on balance, I think the issues Mrs H 
experienced with the direct debits were likely to have been caused by an error on Barclays 
part. So, Ive gone on to consider the impact of this on Mrs H.
After Mrs H became aware that direct debits for the insurance company and the lender had 
been taken from her sole account, she arranged for money to be transferred from her joint 
account. This meant that she didnt incur any charges or fees. So, Mrs H doesnt appear to 
have incurred any financial loss. From what I understand, the direct debits were switched 
back to be taken from the joint account, and Mrs H didnt experience any further issues.
I appreciate Mrs H experienced some frustration and inconvenience as a result of what 
happened. But Barclays has already paid a total of £35.94 in gestures of goodwill. And I 
think this is sufficient compensation for the trouble and upset Mrs H has experienced. So, I 
dont intend to ask Barclays to do anything further.I gave both parties the opportunity to send me further information or comments they wanted 
me to consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Barclays said it had no further information to provide.
 
Mrs H expressed her concerns that I had agreed Barclays was at fault, but I wasnt asking 
them to do anything about it. She said shed provided proof to confirm that Barclays gave the 
companies concerned the new bank details. The ombudsman service seems to see this as 
perfectly acceptable and doesnt think anything should be done by way of an admittance of 
guilt and apology.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs H is disappointed with the outcome that Ive reached. She feels that Ive 
taken Barclays word over the evidence shes provided. But Id like to reassure her that isnt 
the case. As I said in my provisional decision: on balance, I think the issues Mrs H 
experienced with the direct debits were likely to have been caused by an error on Barclays 
part.
Mrs H has indicated that she would like an admittance of guilt and an apology from Barclays. 
But Im not able to direct Barclays to do either of these things. 
It also isnt within this services remit to fine or punish a business. The ombudsman services 
role is to determine whether or not a business has done something wrong and to direct it to 
put things right if we feel it has. Mrs H doesnt appear to have incurred any financial loss. 
And I think the £35.94 Barclays paid her, before she brought her complaint to our service, is 
enough to compensate her for the frustration and inconvenience shes experienced.
So, Mrs Hs comments havent made a difference to the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman