DRN-3760532
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank plc (NatWest) wont allow him to extend the 
term of his loan. He would like NatWest to agree to this.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known so I wont repeat them again here. Instead I will 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Ms first  payment holiday was due to the pandemic. These were 
exceptional circumstances with guidelines laid down by the Government and the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). I dont think Mr M could assume that, as he 
continued to have financial problems, identical support would be available.
As I understand it following on from the pandemic payment holiday Mr M took out a 
forbearance  plan. NatWest has confirmed it didnt explain that, in taking out this out, 
a term  extension to Mr Ms loan wouldnt be an option. But also, that Mr M didnt ask 
about this, which I might have expected him to do if this is what he wanted or 
expected to do. Its unfortunate that call is no longer available to listen to. But as 
NatWest has been open that it didnt explain about the term extension not being an 
option, I think its record of the conversation is probably a fair one.
We do expect businesses to respond positively and sympathetically when customers 
have financial problems. NatWest has explained that when customers cant maintain 
regular payments after a payment holiday, as was the case here, it cant offer a term 
extension and so considers alternative options such as the forbearance plan. The 
forbearance plan was put in place to help Mr M as he only had to pay £1 per month 
for 3 months.. But even if Mr M hadnt agreed to this NatWest wouldnt  have agreed 
to a term extension as Mr M couldnt maintain the regular payments. From what I 
understand Mr M didnt tell NatWest he could have made alternative arrangements 
such as using savings or selling a car to pay off his loan. Based on the information 
that NatWest had, I dont think it was wrong to offer the forbearance plan as a way to 
help Mr M when he couldnt make the loan repayments.
I appreciate Mr M has told us he would have paid off his loan using savings or selling 
his car if he had been told he couldnt extend his loan. But he hasnt provided any 
evidence of his ability to do this. Even if Mr M had been told that he couldnt extend 
his loan I cant be certain he could have paid the loan off.
Ive noted that because of not giving clear advice NatWest put a hold on Mr Ms 
account and asked him to contact its Collections Department  to review his financial 
situation and discuss options. It also removed adverse data from Mr Ms credit file 
for the period of the forbearance plan, refunded arrears of interest and paid Mr M 
£75 compensation. It also offered to cover any external costs such as phone calls. 
Finally, it said it would provide staff training to ensure that the same mistake didnt 
happen again. I think this was an appropriate and comprehensive response to Mr 
Ms situation.
Looking at all the information I have seen I cant reasonably ask NatWest to allow Mr 
M to extend the term of his loan as he would like. I think the forbearance plan was a 
reasonable step given the information Mr M gave to NatWest. Mr M hasnt given us 
any actual evidence that he could have paid off his loan so  I am not persuaded he 
might have been able to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman