DRN-4333267
The complaint
X has complained that Stripe Payments UK Limited (Stripe) discriminated against them 
when it closed their account in December 2022. They have also complained about how 
Stripe handled their complaint when they contacted the business last year.
What happened
X opened a Stripe account in November 2022. They live outside the UK and were relying on 
their Stripe account to receive donations from peers to help them set up their own business 
as well as cover day to day living expenses. 
X has explained that they are a vulnerable person, theyre a survivor of domestic violence, 
have mobility issues, are trans and rely heavily on the support of their community to function. 
In December 2022 X received a payment in excess of $300 USD into their Stripe account. 
They have explained that this was a gift from someone they know, and X had intended on 
using it to help cover their day to day living expenses including food and heating. 
The day after receiving the above donation Stripe reviewed Xs account and asked them to 
provide additional information about their identity and what they were intending on using the 
account for so it could complete its reviews. X explained that not all of their official IDs 
matched up to their declared name as their official documents were in their dead name and 
not their chosen name. They also explained what their account was being used for and 
queried what had prompted Stripe to begin its review of their account. 
Stripe responded to say that it had some concerns about the sources of the donations as it 
had been unable to match all of these with the card details the donations had come from. It 
was also unclear what the purpose of the account was and what business it was linked to. 
Understandably X was upset by this and felt as though they were being accused of 
managing their account in a fraudulent way. 
Over the following weeks X had repeated contact with Stripe which they found very 
distressing. Due to their past experiences of violence and general hostility towards trans 
people, X was cautious about sharing their full contact details and identity information with 
multiple Stripe representatives. They became distressed when asked to repeat this 
information each time they needed to contact Stripe as they felt it should all be visible on 
their account, and it was traumatic for them to have to explain themselves over and over 
each time they chased Stripe to find out what was happening with their account. 
Stripe has explained that while it sympathises with X it had to complete the checks it did in 
order to ensure the account was secure and being managed within the limits of its terms and 
conditions; including its appetite to manage risk and potential customer disputes. Following 
this it made the decision to close Xs account as it had concerns about how it was being 
managed and how likely it was that Xs donors may dispute transactions in the future as it 
was unclear what the payments they were sending were for. 
During that review Stripe made the decision to refund some of the payments X had already 
received despite not being asked by the donors to do so. X has explained this left them in an 
extremely financially vulnerable position, unable to pay for food and other essentials. They 
have also said that it impacted their position within their own community as they felt it made 
them look dishonest in the eyes of their peers. 
Following Xs complaint to Stripe a further review was done and in March 2023 the business 
agreed to reopen the account and refund the money it had sent back to Xs donors. 
However, X said that during the time that the account was closed they had been left in an 
incredibly difficult situation with no access to money to pay for food. It had impacted their 
reputation and in particular had led to the breakdown of a relationship with a person who had 
been supporting X by buying groceries for them as well as completing other errands they 
were unable to do themselves. X asked that Stripe provide them with compensation in the 
region of $1,000 - $1,500 USD in recognition of the harm it had caused them. 
I issued a provisional decision on 8 September 2023. In that I accepted that Stripe made 
mistakes in how it handled the review of Xs account in December 2022 and that its 
communications with them couldve been clearer and better managed. I agreed Stripe hadnt 
properly taken Xs personal circumstances and vulnerabilities into consideration and that it 
couldve done more to help them. I suggested Stripe pay X £350 in compensation in 
recognition of these failings. 
Stripe accepted my recommendations and agreed to pay to compensation. 
X did not agree with my findings and was concerned Id misunderstood their complaint and 
what had happened. In response to the provisional decision they highlighted the following 
points:
The issue that led to Stripe closing their account and refunding donations received in 
November 2022 was the result of an error in an automated system and not the result 
of a manual review of their account.
They had a business website at the time Stripe were reviewing their account. Indeed, 
they wouldnt have been able to open a Stripe account if they hadnt already had a 
business website.
They have a number of different vulnerabilities, which they hadnt disclosed to Stripe 
or this service previously, but which make it extremely difficult for them to 
communicate in writing and verbally. They felt I hadnt properly understood this or 
taken it into account. 
They have never received any kind of apology from Stripe in recognition of the 
impact its behaviour had on them.
The basis of their complaint wasnt about what had happened with the person who 
was supporting them, and I had placed too much emphasis on this point. 
Loss of access to their Stripe account resulted in them being unable to go ahead with 
classes they had advertised which wouldve generated income for them. As a result, 
they were left in dire circumstances with no money for food or heating during the 
winter months.
They were unhappy I hadnt addressed the issues they had when they complained to 
Stripe in December 2022 and the fact that they received no response to their 
complaint until after this service became involved.
They felt that the provisional decision implied that they were trying to get money from 
Stripe in an unreasonable or unwarranted way.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to apologise to X as it is clear from their response that the provisional decision 
upset them and made them feel as though I hadnt understood the impact the mistakes 
made by Stripe had on them. That wasnt my intention, but it is clear thats how they 
interpreted the decision and so I am sorry for any additional distress it caused them. 
X is concerned that Id misunderstood what lead to their account been closed in December 
2022 as they felt I thought it was the result of a manual review whereas it was actually the 
result of an error in Stripes automated systems. Having reviewed all of the information 
provided by Stripe while its unclear whether the initial issue with the payment received in 
December 2022 was the result of an automated system error or not, I agree that it was 
wrong for Stripe to close Xs account in the way that it did. I also agree that the way it 
communicated with them thereafter while they were trying to get this issue resolved was also 
unhelpful. 
I received full transcripts of all the written and verbal communication between X and Stripe at 
this time and this was what I had used to gain context around what had happened at the 
time. This was also the basis for upholding their complaint in the provisional decision and I 
still believe that Stripe made mistakes in December 2022 and exacerbated the situation by 
failing to tailor how it communicated with and supported X as a vulnerable consumer 
throughout this time. 
X has said that they had a functioning website at the time and that Stripe is lying if it has said 
otherwise. To clarify the reason why I concluded there was no functioning website at the 
time was from the webchats X had with Stripe representatives at the time where the 
representatives were explaining that they were trying to access the website as part of their 
checks and were unable to do so. I also tried to access the website to verify it and couldnt 
find it hence my assumption that while X may have been in the process of creating it, it 
hadnt been fully launched or established. Since receiving Xs response to my provisional 
decision I have checked this again and am still unable to find a website using the company 
name theyve provided us. 
X has provided some additional information about their vulnerabilities and how it impacts 
their life and how they communicate. I appreciate them sharing this information with us, I 
understand that its deeply personal and a difficult thing to share. I want to assure X that I 
have taken these into consideration and agree that Stripe couldve done more to help them 
and shouldve tailored how it offered support to them to reflect their different needs. 
However, its very difficult for a business to offer tailored and useful support if it doesnt 
understand what the issues its consumer faces are. While I appreciate X is entitled to their 
privacy and is hesitant to share personal information because of previous traumatic 
experiences, it would be unreasonable for me to punish the business for failing to meet their 
needs if it didnt understand or know what those needs were. 
I noted the issues between X and the person who had been supporting them in the 
provisional decision because from their communications with our investigator I could see that 
this was something that caused X a lot of distress at the time. If I placed too much weight on 
this I apologise but want to clarify that it wasnt why I reduced the level of compensation that 
Stripe should pay. I explain that reduction below. 
X has said that they have never received an apology from Stripe in regard to how its 
decision to close their account in December 2022 impacted them. I believe they are entitled to an apology and so I will direct Stripe to provide one along with the compensation due. 
In regard to Xs potential loss of earnings, in order for me to be able to award loss of 
earnings in cases where consumers have told us that the actions of the business theyre 
complaining about resulted in a substantial loss of income, I need evidence that the lost 
income was guaranteed in the first instance. 
In Xs complaint they have told us that had their Stripe account not been shut down in 
December 2022 they wouldve launched their business and been able to generate an 
income from it. We asked them to provide evidence supporting this. Unfortunately, while 
theyve been able to provide us with some evidence of the services they were advertising at 
the time, theyve not been able to provide us with any evidence to document how much 
income they were likely to generate, or any evidence of services requested or booked by 
potential clients. So, while it is clear that they were hoping to launch their business in the 
new year and were actively advertising to bring in clients, theres no evidence to show how 
much, if any, income this wouldve generated for them. So, Im unable to prove that had their 
Stripe account not been shut down they were guaranteed to generate an income through it. 
And I cant make an award for loss earnings as Ive no way to verify that loss. 
Finally, X was upset that I hadnt addressed the fact that they didnt receive a response to 
their complaint from Stripe until after our service became involved. As explained by our 
investigator there are limits as to what this service can consider and what is and isnt in our 
jurisdiction. Customer service complaints are not regulated activities and so I cant comment 
directly on how Stripe responded to Xs complaint in December 2022. But I can consider the 
circumstances around what happened with their account. Which is why Ive said I think 
Stripe couldve done more to support X once it had incorrectly closed their account, but not 
commented on the process around responding to the complaint itself. 
I know X is extremely disappointed with the amount of compensation Ive asked Stripe to 
pay. In the initial view our investigator issued he had suggested compensation of £1,000. 
However, I disagreed with that suggestion on the basis that it wasnt consistent with how this 
service had calculated compensation in the past. As explained above in order for me to ask 
Stripe to pay such a large amount of compensation I would need evidence that supports X 
was likely to have earned this much had the problems with their Stripe account not occurred. 
And Ive not received any evidence that shows that. This is why I disagreed with the amount 
suggested by the investigator. 
I know this is very distressing for X and I want to clarify its not an indication that I havent 
understood how difficult the situation was for them or that I dont believe them. But the role of 
this service isnt punitive, and Ive got be consistent with the approach taken in the past in 
order to be fair to both parties. Which is why, although I am upholding their complaint against 
Stripe, I wasnt able to endorse the amount of compensation put forward by the investigator. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right Stripe Payments UK Limited should:
Apologise to X for the incorrect closure of their account in December 2022 and its 
failure to offer the adequate help and support after this error occurred
Pay X £350 compensation in recognition of the problems they experienced between 
December 2022 and March 2023 when their account was inaccessible My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Xs complaint against Stripe Payments UK Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman