DRN-3079131
The complaint
Mr A complains about Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo (ELL) and their 
decision to approve two high interest loans.
What happened
In May 2015, Mr A applied for loan one with ELL. This loan was approved and Mr A received 
£4,000, with a monthly repayment of £178.69 over 36 months. Mr A was able to maintain his 
monthly repayments and the loan was repaid, with no negative information reported to his 
credit file.
In March 2018, Mr A applied for loan two with ELL. The loan was approved again and Mr A 
received £4,600, with a monthly repayment of £184.59 over 48 months. Unfortunately, Mr A 
began to struggle with his finances. And this impacted his mental health and general 
wellbeing. So, in November 2020, he raised a complaint with ELL.
Mr A complained about ELLs decision to approve both loans. He thought their decision was 
irresponsible as it shouldve been clear from his credit file that the loans were unaffordable. 
He thought his finances were in a poor state at the time the first loan was approved, and 
even worse at the time of the second loan. So, he felt ELL had taken advantage of him and 
overcharged him due to the high interest rate that was applied. Because of this, Mr A wanted 
ELL to refund him all interest and charges applied to both loan accounts, any outstanding 
balance to be written off and his guarantor to be removed.
ELL didnt agree. They thought theyd completed appropriate checks before approving both 
loans. And they didnt think these checks provided information that suggested the loans were 
unaffordable. They also thought it was made clear the interest on the loan and Mr A had 
agreed to proceed with them on this basis. So, they didnt think they needed to anything 
more. But they did offer to look into Mr As current financial situation and the options 
available to him regarding repayment of his outstanding balance. Mr A remained unhappy 
with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought the checks for 
both loans had been proportionate to the loan provided to Mr A against his monthly income. 
And he didnt think there was any information in the affordability calculations, or Mr As credit 
file, that suggested either loan was unaffordable. So, he didnt think he could say ELL had 
lent irresponsibly. And he thought the interest rates were made clear to Mr A and hed 
continued with the loan on that basis, so he didnt think ELL needed to do anything more.
Mr A didnt agree. He disputed the monthly rent costs used by ELL in their affordability 
calculations, saying hed never paid an amount as low at that. So, he requested evidence to 
show he stated that amount. And he maintained his view that ELL had acted unfairly and in a 
way that had impacted his financial situation.
Our investigator provided Mr A the call recording where Mr A agreed to the monthly rent 
amount used in the affordability calculations and explained his view remained the same. He 
also explained that even if the rent had been calculated as more, he still wouldve said ELL 
were reasonable to approve the loans. Mr A didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Having done 
so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr A. I dont doubt Mr A has 
found himself in financial difficulty and I recognise the affect this wouldve had on his mental 
health due to the upset and worry caused. And I can appreciate why Mr A would look at the 
credit he was provided more recently and feel that contributed to the situation he found 
himself in. But for me to say ELL have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied their 
decision to approve loans one and two was irresponsible. For me to decide this, Id need to 
see they failed to complete proportionate checks at the time each loan was approved. Or, if I 
think these checks were proportionate, Id need to be satisfied they failed to assess the 
information these checks provided fairly. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive considered each loan separately and on its own merits as I recognise Mr As situation 
wouldnt have been identical at the point of lending as they were approved three years apart. 
So, Ive focused on loan one first.
There are no set amount of checks ELL needed to complete for me to say they were 
proportionate. So, when considering proportionality, Ive thought about the checks ELL 
completed compared to the value of the loan and Mr As monthly income and whether this 
was reasonable.
Ive seen ELL considered Mr As monthly income, his residential status and payments 
towards his rent, his number of dependants, his current creditor repayments at the time, his 
calculated living expenses and the information reported on his credit file at the time. And 
having done so, they approved loan one for a total amount of £4,000 with monthly 
repayments of £178.69. Mr A declared his monthly income in May 2015 to be £2,380.00 
after tax. So, I think the total value of the loan, and the monthly repayments, were relatively 
small in comparison to his monthly income and because of this, I think the checks ELL 
completed were proportionate.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether ELL assess the information 
these checks provided fairly. Ive seen ELLs income and expenditure calculations which 
show that after all of the above had been considered, as well as loan ones monthly 
repayment, Mr A would be left with £660.81 disposable income. So, I dont think this 
wouldve suggested to ELL that the loan was unaffordable as Mr A was left with a sizeable 
amount each month.
But Im aware Mr A thinks his credit score shouldve made it clear to ELL that it wasnt. Im 
unable to see exactly what Mr As credit score was at the time loan one was approved. But 
businesses such as ELL dont make decisions on lending based on a credit score. Instead, 
they analyse a customers credit file to gain a better understanding into how theyre 
managing their finances.
At the time loan one was approved, Mr A had no open defaults reported on his credit file. He 
had a credit card and a hire purchase loan, both of which were being maintained well with no late or missed payments recorded. The only adverse information shown on Mr As credit file 
was a late payment for a mail order account. And I dont think this information shouldve 
automatically led to ELL declining the loan application. In general, Mr As credit file 
suggested he was maintaining his existing credit well. And the income and expenditure 
suggested the loan was affordable. The loan ELL approved was a guarantor loan, meaning 
Mr A had a guarantor on the account who would be responsible for payments if Mr A was 
unable to meet them, which mitigated some of the risk in lending for ELL. So, with all this 
considered, I dont think I can say ELLs decision to approve loan one was unreasonable and 
because of this, I dont think they needed to do anything more for this account.
Ive then considered loan two against the same tests. ELL completed the same checks for 
loan two as loan one, except they also requested Mr As previous two months payslips. From 
this, they calculated Mr As monthly income to have increased to £3,165.00. They approved 
loan two for a total value of £4,600, with monthly repayments of £184.59. So again, I think 
the total value of the loan, and the monthly repayments associated, were relatively low 
compared to Mr As monthly income. And I think ELL noted Mr As requirement for a second 
loan and their requests for proof of income acknowledge this. For these reasons, I think the 
checks ELL completed were proportionate.
Ive then thought about whether ELL assessed the information these checks provided fairly. 
Again, Ive seen the income and expenditure calculations ELL completed. And they show, 
with loan twos monthly repayment included, Mr A was left with £1,016.28 disposable income 
a month. I think this is a more than reasonable amount and doesnt suggest the loan would 
be unaffordable. Mr As payslips also confirm his monthly income is regular and consistent, 
which I think provided ELL with even more security about the loans affordability.
But, like loan one, Im aware Mr A thinks his credit file shouldve shown ELL the loan was 
unaffordable. And at the time ELL approved loan two, Ive seen that Mr A had more existing 
credit than when loan one was approved. But, crucially, I dont think there was any 
information on the credit file that suggested he was in financial difficulty at the time the loan 
was approved.
Mr A had three open credit card accounts. But Ive listened to the call recording of Mr A 
applying for the second loan where he confirmed the loan was intended to consolidate these. 
So, they payments for these cards wouldnt need to be included in the expenditure 
calculations. And for each of these open accounts, Mr A had been maintaining them well 
with no missed or late payments.
Mr A also had loan one but this had three months left before being settled. And again, Mr A 
had maintained this account well. The mail order account remained on the credit file and Mr 
A had been able to maintain payments to this account. And finally, Mr A had taken out 
another credit account with a retailer in the month before the loan was approved, for a value 
of £1,649.00 and a payment hadnt yet needed to be made. So, I dont think any of the 
above shouldve suggested to ELL that loan two was unaffordable.
I have seen that Mr A made several applications for payday loans in 2015 and 2016, after 
loan one was taken. And I recognise this may have suggested financial difficulties at that 
time. But crucially, it had been two years since Mr A had needed a pay day loan when Mr A 
applied for loan two and I dont think it wouldve been fair for ELL to decline his claim due the 
presence of pay day loans on his credit file, when hed maintained his existing credit well 
since then. Because of this, I cant say ELL acted unreasonably when approving loan two 
and for that reason, I dont think they need to do anything more.
Im aware Mr A has disputed the rental cost ELL used to calculate the affordability of the 
loans. ELL stated this as £427.50, which Mr A thinks is incorrect. But Ive listened to the call recording, which hes since been provided, where he explains his monthly rent was £855.00 
a month but as he was living with a partner, ELL would use 50% of this amount to calculate 
the affordability. Mr A didnt dispute this at the time so I think ELL were reasonable to 
proceed on that basis and this doesnt impact the decision Ive reached.
Im aware Mr A is also unhappy with the interest rate applicable on both loans. But there is 
no limit on the interest rate a lender can offer, so I cant say offering a higher rate in itself is 
unfair. What I can consider is whether this rate was made clear to Mr A. And Ive seen this 
was clearly stated in the loan agreements Mr A signed when taking out the loans. If Mr A 
was unhappy with either rate, Id have expected him to query this before agreeing to the 
loans. As Ive no evidence to show he did, Im unable to say ELL have acted unfairly in 
relation to this aspect of the complaint.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping for and I recognise the impact it may 
have on Mr As mental health, which is something Ive considered at length. But my role is to 
make an independent and impartial decision that is fair to both parties. So, for me to say ELL 
should do something more, Id need to be satisfied theyd done something wrong. I hope this 
decision explains clearly why I dont think thats the case in this situation.
Im also aware loan two remains outstanding. Id expect ELL to act positively and 
sympathetically to Mr As financial situation and Im glad to see theyve offered Mr A the 
chance to contact them directly in their final response.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Everyday Lending 
Limited trading as Trusttwo.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman