DRN-3910789
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) were unfair in 
rejecting their home insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B submitted a theft claim in March 2022, saying that someone had entered their 
home illegally and taken their possessions.
RSA looked into the matter and found that Mr and Mrs B had had a long running dispute with 
an individual, who Ill refer to as Mr H. Mr and Mrs B said theyd been served eviction notices 
and that Mr H had gained entry to their property in order to seize their possessions. RSA 
didnt think this was a typical case of theft so they rejected the claim, they considered it to be 
a civil matter between Mr and Mrs B and Mr H.
Mr B didnt agree. He said Mr H had no legal right to enter the property and provided land 
registry records to show it was owned by Mrs B. A resolution couldnt be reached with RSA 
so the case was brought to our service.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They agreed that RSA had been fair in rejecting 
the claim. Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy as they maintained Mr H had no legal right to do 
what he did.
Because of this, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by explaining that the Financial Ombudsman Service is an alternative to the 
courts. We will consider everything provided by the parties concerned but may not comment 
on it all  rather we will address what we believe to be most relevant. This isnt intended to 
be a discourtesy; it simply reflects the less formal nature of what we do.
The first place to start in cases such as this is to look at what the insurance policy says, 
because not all eventualities will be covered. Mr and Mrs Bs policy says theyre covered for 
theft or attempted theft.
When making a claim on an insurance policy there is an onus on the consumer to 
demonstrate that an insured loss, or peril, has occurred. In this case, I dont think there is 
any doubting that Mr and Mrs B had possessions taken from their home  nor that this was 
against their wishes. But it doesnt automatically follow that their loss can be considered as 
theft.
Mr and Mrs B told us that there has been an eight-year dispute between them and Mr H. 
They say Mr H has a vendetta against them, has lied to the courts, committed perjury and 
fraud. Mr and Mrs B say a court judgment was issued against them but that the court has 
since gone into hiding and the matter is now with the court commissioner and the Prime 
Minister. Mr and Mrs B say theyre taking legal action against the police in relation to this and 
that Mr B has been arrested for being on his own property. He also said hed been evicted 
from his property several times.
The main evidence Mr and Mrs B have provided in relation to this matter is video footage 
and the land registry document showing the property to be in Mrs Bs name. But those alone 
do not confirm a theft occurred. One video is said to be of Mr B having an argument with
Mr H and the other shows someone purported to be Mr H trying to enter a property.
Those alone do not demonstrate that Mr and Mrs Bs property was entered illegally, nor do I 
consider it to really matter whose name is shown on the land registry document. It isnt in 
dispute that Mr and Mrs B lived there and that their property was insured there.
Given the seemingly complex dispute between Mr and Mrs B and Mr H, and that
Mr and Mrs B say the matter is with the court commissioner and the Prime Minister I dont 
think RSAs position is unfair here. Particularly as RSA offered to reconsider if further 
evidence of theft can be provided.
While Mr and Mrs B have referred to assault and being served numerous eviction notices I 
am not here to investigate those, other than to say that simply adds to the fact that this is not 
an ordinary instance of theft. And that RSA werent being unreasonable in asking for further 
evidence to explain the situation.
It is worth me adding that I can dismiss a case on the basis that it is more suitable for a court 
of law. Im not doing that, because I dont consider RSA to have been unreasonable, but 
bearing in mind what Mr and Mrs B have said about evictions, the courts, the court 
commissioner and the Prime Minister then maybe that is where they can find the answers 
they want.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman