DRN-3102683
The complaint
Mr A complains that Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group (trading as Flux Direct) 
automatically renewed his car insurance policy without his approval and invoiced him for 
various charges after he cancelled the policy
What happened
Mr A took out a car insurance policy in January 2020 with Flux acting as Mr As insurance 
broker. The policy was automatically renewed in January 2021.
Following conversations with Flux in March and April 2021, Mr A asked Flux to cancel his 
insurance. Flux cancelled Mr As policy and invoiced him for outstanding charges totalling 
£615.04. As Mr A had paid £273.04 in premiums, he owed Flux £342.
Mr A complained about this. He said he didnt agree to renew his policy through Flux. He 
also said he wasnt given enough time to opt out of renewal, and that Flux took his first 
premium payment before hed had time to decide not to renew.
Flux told Mr A it had sent him the renewal documents ahead of the renewal date and, when 
it didnt hear from him, automatically renewed his policy in line with its business terms. It also 
explained that his insurance premium was most likely higher because of an open claim 
against him following an accident in August 2020. It told Mr A that any dispute about that 
claim should be referred to his insurers claims handling company.
Mr A didnt accept this and brought his complaint to this service. He was also unhappy with 
the behaviour of one of Fluxs call handlers during a phone call in March 2021. He wants 
Flux to cancel the outstanding charges and refund £273.04 in premiums that he says were 
fraudulently taken from his bank account. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr As complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Flux gave Mr A reasonable notice that his insurance policy was due to expire and acted 
fairly by automatically renewing his policy. He didnt think the outstanding charges were 
unfair or that Fluxs call handler had acted unprofessionally during their phone call.
Mr A disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In summary, Mr A says:
He didnt receive his renewal documents at the start of January 2021.
Instead, he says these documents were sent to an online portal which he didnt 
access until April 2021.
His job as a key worker during the pandemic meant he wasnt aware that my car 
insurance was being renewed.
His premium increased from roughly £85 to £130 per month.
He only became aware of an open claim on his policy when he contacted Flux to 
complain about the renewal and increased premium. 
Flux refused to deal with this open claim, and instead referred Mr A to his insurer.
A Flux call handler laughed at him during a phone conversation in March 2021. He 
believes the call handlers behaviour was racially motivated.
I think there are four separate allegations here: the automatic renewal; the cancellation 
charges; the increase to his premium (linked to the open claim on his policy); and the Flux 
call handlers behaviour during the March 2021 phone call.
Ill take each of these in turn, starting with the allegation about the premium increase.
Premium increase/open claim
Mr As complaints about the premium increase and/or the insurers handling of the August 
2020 claim need to be directed to his insurer, not his broker. So Flux was right to tell Mr A 
that he needed to deal directly with his insurer about these issues. I note that Fluxs call 
handlers transferred Mr and Mrs A to the claims handling company in phone calls in 
February and March 2021.
Mr A sent us copies of correspondence from Flux that explained this and shows Mr A was 
aware of the insurance claim against him. 
Im satisfied that Fluxs actions here were fair.
Automatic renewal
Fluxs Terms of Business document covers automatic renewals. This says: 
we reserve the right to automatically renew your policy up to five working days 
prior to the renewal date and take payment by the same payment method as this 
year. If we exercise this right we will write to you prior to the renewal date, informing 
you how much the premium will be and giving you time to let us know if you wish to 
opt out of the automatic renewal process.
This means Flux can automatically renew Mr As insurance policy if he didnt actively cancel 
it. I dont agree with Mr A that this is ambiguous, but Ive thought about whether Fluxs 
reliance on this term was fair in this case.
Mr A has made three points about the renewal: first, the renewal documents were sent to 
him via an online portal rather than directly via email; second, the cover emails from Flux 
looked like marketing emails; third, hes a key worker and the pandemic meant he didnt 
realise his policy was being renewed.
I can see that Flux sent Mr A an email in early January 2021, two weeks before his existing 
policy expired. This directed Mr A to his online Flux account for information about his new 
premium and renewal documents. Flux accepts that Mr A didnt access the portal until April 
2021.
However, the email said: Your policy is due to expire on 19/01/2021 and because well 
renew your policy automatically by Direct Debit, youll only need to call us if anything has 
changed or if any of our information is incorrect. So even if Mr A didnt access the portal, the email explained that his insurance was about to expire and  unless he called Flux  it would 
renew automatically. Thats clear. I also think that if Mr A didnt want to or couldnt access 
the portal, he could have asked Flux to send him the documents directly by post or email (as 
he later did for Fluxs response to his complaint).
Im not convinced by Mr As argument that Fluxs emails looked like marketing emails. The 
line quoted above was in the first paragraph of the email he received. And given Mr A took 
out his insurance policy through Flux, I think its reasonable to expect him to read Fluxs 
emails rather than assume they were marketing emails. Had he done so, I think he would 
have realised he needed to act if he wanted to cancel the policy.
I listened to the call between Mrs A and Flux on 18 February 2021, about a month after the 
policy renewed. Mrs A told the call handler there were two reasons for her call. First, Mrs A 
explained that shed received something that asked her to update you about mileage. 
Second, Mrs A wanted to query the increase to their monthly premium despite their low 
mileage. 
The call handler explained that the higher premium might be due to an outstanding claim on 
the policy. The call handler also referred to a discussion with Mr A about the claim at the 
start of the month. Fluxs internal record of that call noted that Mr A wants to know why [his 
premium has] gone up about double. 
Theres no suggestion during either of these calls that Mr and Mrs A wanted to cancel the 
policy or were concerned about the automatic renewal. 
Finally, I think the call from Mrs A suggests Fluxs emails were clear enough. Mr A didnt 
access the online portal before April 2021, so I think its reasonable to conclude the emails 
he received about his mileage declaration prompted Mrs A to contact Flux.
Ive thought carefully about Mr As statement that hes a key worker and didnt notice the 
renewal documents. I appreciate this would have been a stressful time for him, but I dont 
think this is enough to change my mind that the renewal emails were clear that he needed to 
act before the renewal date.
Cancellation charges
Mr A wants a refund of the payments Flux took from his account. Those payments reflect the 
90 days he was insured before he cancelled the policy, so I dont agree that Flux should 
refund these.
Ive reviewed the other cancellation charges and am satisfied theyre correct. For example, 
Fluxs Terms of Business are clear that any refund for cancelled policies is net of 
commission. In other words, Flux can still retain its commission even if Mr A cancelled his 
policy. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Mr A is liable for the charges claimed by Flux.
Call handler behaviour, March 2021
Finally, Ive listened to the phone call in March 2021. Its clear to me the call handler has a 
vocal tic that meant she laughed when uncomfortable. This is noted in her record of the call: 
I adv client I do have a nervous laugh sometimes when telling some negative info which I 
unfortunately felt uncomfortable telling him but apologised to client for this and advised I am 
only human.Thats unfortunate and I can understand why Mr A would have been annoyed by this. But I 
think the call handlers explanation and apology at the time were genuine. Otherwise, I think 
she was patient and professional during that call, particularly when Mr A became angry. 
While I understand Mr As annoyance, I dont agree that the call handlers behaviour towards 
him was racially motivated.
Mr A told us he didnt want to renew with Flux because of the way he was treated during 
2020, and because he wasnt given enough notice that his policy would renew automatically 
in January 2021. I dont think the evidence supports this. I think its more likely Mr A wanted 
to cancel because he was unhappy with the increase to his premium. Unfortunately, by the 
time he tried to do this it was too late to cancel the policy without incurring the charges set 
out by Flux.
For the reasons above, I think Flux Direct acted reasonably by cancelling Mr As policy and 
invoicing Mr A for the outstanding charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman