DRN-3290449
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (trading as M&S Bank) has 
refused to reimburse money she lost when falling victim to a scam.
What happened
Where the facts of this case are well known to both parties, I wont detail them again here. 
This is not a discourtesy to Mrs W or M&S Bank. Rather, it reflects the informal nature of our 
service. In my decision, Ive focused on what I find to be the key points to determining my 
outcome  our rules allow me to do that. 
In short, Mrs W decided to invest in what she thought was a genuine online trading platform 
called Golden Markets. She paid this seemingly legitimate firm a total of £3,000 using her 
M&S Bank credit card; made up of £500 and then £2,500, both on 23 October 2018. 
Unbeknown to Mrs W at the time, Golden Markets was actually operating a fraudulent 
scheme. There were in fact no trades undertaken using her money  but the individual(s) 
used software to present her with a bogus platform that superficially showed her that the 
investments were performing well. This, together with sales techniques employed, 
convinced Mrs W that everything was above board. 
When Mrs W later realised she had been scammed, she asked M&S Bank to help recover 
her money. Ultimately, the bank said this had been unsuccessful and when Mrs W raised a 
complaint, M&S Bank disagreed that it was responsible for her loss. 
Mrs W asked our service to consider the complaint. One of our investigators found that M&S 
Bank ought to offer a refund of the £3,000, considering there was information about Golden 
Markets that M&S Bank should have taken account of before it allowed the payments to be 
let go. Mrs W agreed with this assessment. 
M&S Bank doesnt agree. All things considered, it argues it could not fairly held liable for 
offering a refund. Because M&S Bank is not in agreement, the matter has been escalated to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that the complaint should be upheld. I say so 
for the following reasons:
1) Not all complaints referred to us about investing in binary options, or CFDs are in fact 
scams. Some complaints simply involve high-risk investment bets on the performance 
of a share price, or commodity that has resulted in disappointing returns or substantial 
losses. And whilst some traders promoted these products using methods that could 
arguably be unethical or misleading  that does not necessarily meet the high legal 
threshold for fraud (in accordance with the Fraud Act 2006).
2) Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud. That said, PSPs are not expected to guard 
against poor investment choices or give investment advice when executing customer 
payments. Accordingly, the first question I need to consider is whether Golden Market 
was operating fraudulently. 
3) It appears common ground between the parties that Mrs W was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam orchestrated by this firm. But for the avoidance of doubt, the material 
available in the public domain, along with the information the regulator has shared, 
satisfies me that Golden Markets wasnt a legitimate trading company. 
4) Having concluded this was a scam, I next need to determine whether M&S Bank ought 
to have intervened with these two disputed payments. And if it should have, whether this 
would have prevented Mrs Ws loss here. 
5) M&S Bank is aware of our position on PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. There are many published 
decisions on our website setting out these principles, relevant rules and regulations. I 
therefore dont consider it necessary to rehearse them again here.
6) As long ago as June 2012, the then regulator, indicated  in its consultation paper 
Banks Defence Against Investment Fraud; detecting perpetrators and protecting victims 
 that it was good industry practice for firms to put together an updated watch-list of 
prominent types of scams and potential scammers. 
7) Whilst the regulator didnt give any indication of when those watchlists ought to be 
updated, its not unreasonable to expect a bank, like M&S Bank, to update those lists, 
and communicate with staff, within a month of a warning being published by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Such an alert should automatically trigger its fraud 
prevention systems and lead to payments being paused, pending further intervention  
such as, making enquiries of the customer about the payment or giving a scam warning.
8) Here, there was a warning about Golden Markets published on the FCA website on      
25 May 2018  at least four months before Mrs W made these payments. Whilst the 
warning did not specifically refer to binary-options or CFDs, it did specify that it was 
offering services in the UK without being authorised. I consider any watch-list should 
reasonably include parties who are carrying out regulated activities without being 
authorised to do so. 
9) Given the timing of this warning and when both these payments were instructed by     
Mrs W, M&S Bank ought to have automatically blocked them. By then, M&S Bank had 
had ample time to update and communicate its watch-list. Therefore, it should have 
asked Mrs W appropriate probing questions before processing the payments.10) Had M&S Bank carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mrs W about these 
intended payments, Ive no reason to doubt she would have explained what she was 
doing. And whilst I accept it had no duty to protect Mrs W from a poor investment choice, 
or give investment advice, it could have provided information about the steps a customer 
can take to ensure, as far as is reasonably possible, that they are dealing with a 
legitimate person  such as checking the trader was authorised with the FCA. I find it 
could have drawn on its own knowledge and information from other parties about the 
high risks associated with binary-options and CFDs, and the potential for fraud. 
11) I havent seen any evidence that M&S Bank intervened or provided a scam warning. Had 
it done so, Im satisfied Mrs W would have looked into the supposed investment 
opportunity further and discovered more information about this type of venture, how high-
risk it was and whether the trader was regulated here or abroad. Indeed, its likely she 
would have come across the warning published by the FCA herself and that would have 
been enough to give her second thoughts such that she wouldnt have traded at all. 
12) I do consider the level and depth of questioning ought to be proportionate to the 
situation. I accept that there is a balance for M&S Bank to strike  and Im not suggesting 
Mrs W shouldve been subjected to an interrogation by bank staff. Still, Im not 
persuaded that an overbearing line of questioning needed to be brought about by M&S 
Bank in the particular circumstances of this case. 
13) On the contrary, querying some basic information about the beneficiary and/or discreetly 
asking for some background about how this so-called investment came about wouldve 
revealed that Mrs W was not an experienced investor and was relying on what she 
thought was credible marketing from a TV programme. When in truth, this was actually a 
bogus endorsement from a celebrity who was not in any way involved with Golden 
Markets. In my judgment, a PSP of M&S Banks size and experience in tackling varying 
types of fraud ought reasonably to have identified this had the hallmarks of a scam. 
14) Overall, had M&S Bank carried out appropriate questioning here, it seems probable that 
Mrs W wouldve become credulous about the scam in time and stopped the payments in 
their tracks. The fraud wouldve failed; and Mrs W would not have lost £3,000. It follows 
that M&S Bank should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mrs W for the loss she suffered, 
together with ensuring she was charged no corresponding fee or interest on her credit 
card account for either of these two transactions. 
15) Finally, I have thought about whether Mrs W should bear some responsibility for the 
situation in which she found herself. She says  and I accept  that she was drawn into 
the scam by someone purporting to be a legitimate trader, in much the same way as 
other people have been. This was clearly a sophisticated scam, with clever techniques 
and persuasive material. All in all, I havent seen anything in what Mrs W has described 
that would lead me to safely conclude she ought to have been on notice she might be 
being scammed such that I think it would be fair to reduce any redress accordingly.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require 
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (trading as M&S Bank) to:
 Reimburse Mrs W a total of £3,000, being the loss incurred as a result of the 
transactions in dispute; and 
 To ensure that any interest or fees charged for these two transactions are refunded 
to her (less any tax lawfully deductible). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman