DRN-3042883
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society has refused to refund transactions (made 
using his Nationwide credit card) to a fraudulent binary options company (Golden Markets). 
What happened
Mr A saw an online advert for bitcoin investments provided by Golden Markets which was 
backed by well-known celebrities. He believed it was legitimate and so he decided to invest. 
Mr A was told he needed a minimum investment to give him access to a trading account but 
the amount he was willing to invest would only give him access to Amazon shares, so Mr A 
agreed to pay £249.99 on 11 April 2018. Mr A was advised by his account manager that due 
to a takeover with Amazon, the shares were about to soar in value. On the basis of the 
belief that he could benefit from a lucrative opportunity, he agreed to invest larger sums and 
on 19 April 2018, made two payments totalling £4,385.23 for Amazon shares. 
Mr A noted that half of the funds on his trading account were invested in Amazon and the 
other half remained on his trading platform. After a couple of days, his entire account 
balance was lost. Mr A questioned how all of his funds could have been lost if half werent 
invested at all.
Mr A contacted the Broker Complaint Registry, where he was told that a lot of people had 
been scammed by Golden Markets. He subsequently contacted Nationwide on 30 April 2018 
for assistance with the recovery of his funds. Mr A says he was initially told that the money 
could be recovered but Nationwide then advised it could not refund his payments, so he 
complained. 
Nationwide said the funds were deposited onto a trading account run by Golden Markets to 
then trade and invest with. It didnt believe the funds were used to pay for goods or services, 
so there were no s.75 rights. It also didnt agree that chargeback rights were applicable. In 
recognition of Mr A receiving some poor customer service, it paid £100 by way of an 
apology. 
One of our investigators upheld the complaint on the basis that Mr A had a valid claim for 
misrepresentation and breach of contract and suggested that Nationwide refund Mr As 
payments. Nationwide didnt agree and in summary said:
No chargeback rights existed. 
Mr A made payments to Emexgo.com and funds were applied to a trading account 
with Golden Markets which subsequently supplied him with Bitcoin and that is the 
service he received, so no s.75 rights exist. 
There is a clear distinction between a company operating as a scam and a legitimate 
company which mis-sales a product or service on the basis of misleading or false 
promises. Only the legitimate company entering into a contract with a consumer can 
be caught by s.75 as the scam company had no intention of entering into a binding 
contract, which is the underlying requirement for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation claim to succeed. If Mr A has been scammed, there can be no 
s.75 liability. 
Nationwide is entitled to be indemnified by the supplier for any loss pursuant to 
s.75(2), if this was not a legitimate company, there would be no recourse for 
Nationwide to recover its loss against the supplier. The inclusion of this provision 
further emphasizes that s.75 was never intended to be used to protect against 
scams, but rather against genuine suppliers who have either misrepresented their 
goods or services or where a genuine contract has been breached. 
Mr A invested in Bitcoin which is a highly volatile cryptocurrency with no guarantee of 
return, so he must have appreciated the risk that he might not get his money back.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Ive first considered that Mr A had no valid chargeback rights and I agree with Nationwides 
consideration that under the Visa chargeback scheme, Mr A didnt have the evidence 
required to satisfy the requirements of the scheme rules. So I dont think it acted 
unreasonably by not processing chargeback claims for him. 
 
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr As complaint on the 
basis that Nationwide is liable to him under s.75. As a starting point, its useful to set out 
what the Act actually says: 
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
a) under a non-commercial agreement, 
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
To summarise there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
Ill deal with each requirement or exclusion in turn. First, there doesnt seem to be any 
dispute that a credit card account is a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under the 
act. And, Im satisfied here there is nothing that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain  
insomuch and whilst there are four parties involved:
1. Mr A (the debtor)
2. Nationwide (the creditor); 
3. Emexgo.com (the e-commerce provider); and4. Golden Markets (the supplier)  as shown on Mr As paperwork and on Nationwides 
business file submissions. The documents from Golden Markets also advise that the 
payee name would appear as Emexgo.com on Mr As bank statement. 
The second consideration is whether the transaction is financed by the agreement. 
Transaction isnt defined by the Act, but it has generally been given a wide interpretation by 
the courts  to include whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of a deal. Here, Mr A has 
deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those funds on an 
investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when he wished. The 
subsequent transactions were made in order to finance the purchase of Amazon stock. 
Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im satisfied there 
were transactions (which Ill call the deposit-transactions) as defined by s.75. 
Again to finance is not defined under the Act. An ordinary definition would be to provide 
funds to do something. In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank plc [2004] Miss Justice 
Gloster said in a passage with which the Court of Appeal agreed The phrase to finance 
approaching the matter in a common sense way must mean provide financial 
accommodation in respect of A credit card issuer clearly provides financial 
accommodation to its cardholder, in relation to his purchases from suppliers, because he is 
given time to pay for his purchase under the terms of the credit card agreement.  
Applying that ordinary definition here, if Mr A had not used his credit card he would have had 
to find the cash from his own resources to fund the deposit transactions and obtain the 
investment account this supposedly entitled him to. So, its clear that the deposit-
transactions were financed by the agreement. 
Third, the claim must relate to the transaction. Its important to consider what Mr As claim is 
here. Its evident from his testimony and correspondence he provided that he feels he was 
tricked into depositing the payments with the Golden Markets for the dual purpose of:
a) Stealing the deposit money; and
b) Encouraging Mr A to deposit larger amounts. 
Mr A does not believe that Golden Markets was operating legitimately and believes he was 
misled into thinking they were.
This claim  that Mr A was misled into depositing funds is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transactions. The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract.  In this case, if Mr A was told by Golden Markets matters that were factually untrue 
in order to trick him into entering into the deposit-transactions, his claim would be for 
misrepresentation. Or, if the merchant made binding promises to him as part of those 
transactions and went on to breach these that would make his claim one for breach of 
contract.  
Finally, the claim mustnt relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash price 
of less than £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of the deposit-transaction is 
the value of that deposit-transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the 
contract. 
Nationwide has declined the claim under s.75 because it says that the deposit was a step to 
speculating and didnt secure any goods. I take this to mean that the deposit was nothing 
more than transferring money onto another account, opened for the purpose of speculating 
with the money, rather than being a payment that was used to purchase goods. When funds 
are deposited onto a trading account this isnt necessarily just a transfer of money between 
accounts, it may also have been paid in return for something. In this case the broker has made contractual promises in exchange for the deposit. Nationwide in its refusal to accept 
liability under s.75 havent quoted the Act itself. It is important to note that s.75 doesnt use 
the term purchase of goods or services nor is there anything within the Act that would 
exclude the present type of transaction.  
Nationwide suggests that if Golden Markets were scammers, Mr A couldnt benefit from s.75 
protection. Whether there was a contract for the supply of services depends on the dealings 
between the supplier and the consumer, seen objectively, not on either partys subjective 
intentions or the honesty/dishonesty of their motivation. In other words, it is perfectly 
possible for Golden Markets to have tricked Mr A into entering into an agreement they never 
had any ability or intention to carry out.  If that occurs, Golden Markets and Mr A have 
entered into a contract, but it has been procured by Golden Markets dishonest 
misrepresentation and Mr A has claims in law for his losses suffered as a result of having 
entered into the agreement.  
I also take Nationwides point that s.75(2) entitles it to be indemnified by the supplier, 
therefore s.75(1) cannot apply to scam merchants as it would not be able to be indemnified 
by a scam company. But unlike section 75(1), section 75(2) is not concerned with consumer 
protection. It is not to be seen as a quid pro quo for the right of recourse that is afforded to 
debtors by s.75(1). So I dont agree with Nationwides suggestion that there is an implied 
limitation on the scope of s.75(1). Being unable to recoup losses from the supplier in 
accordance with s.75(2) is simply one of the risks that Nationwide (as a creditor) has to bear 
in its assessment of the commercial risks it enters into when it commences business as a 
card issuer. So I would reject the suggestion that s.75(1) cannot apply where a supplier 
scams a debtor. 
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that s.75 does apply to the credit card deposit-
transactions. 
Ill therefore go on to consider whether Mr A has a valid claim for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider Mr A has made a claim of misrepresentation by Golden Markets  that claim being 
that they represented to him that they were a legitimate enterprise when this was not the 
case.
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show not just a false 
statement of fact but also that the statement induced Mr A into entering into an agreement. 
A false statement of fact
If Im satisfied that the merchant was not likely to be operating a legitimate enterprise - one 
in which Mr A could have ever received back more money than he deposited, then it follows 
that any statements made by the merchant to the contrary are likely to be a 
misrepresentation.
So, the mere suggestion that Mr A could make money from the platform is likely to suffice as 
entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it operated a 
legitimate business, i.e. a legitimate trading platform on which investors could profitably 
trade. And, Im satisfied that based on Mr As account of events and the nature of the 
situation, Golden Markets did claim that Mr A could have made money from the trading 
platform.That induced him into entering the agreement
Again, had Mr A known that the trading platform was essentially a scam designed to relieve 
investors of their money, rather than a legitimate service, theres really little question of him 
not investing with Golden Markets. Consequently, should I be satisfied that Golden Markets 
isnt operating a legitimate enterprise then inducement will also be demonstrated.
Was the merchant operating a legitimate enterprise?
Before discussing this in more detail, I should mention that Ive found Mr As account of 
events both detailed and compelling. But more than this, its corroborated not just by other 
complaints of this nature but specific complaints against Golden Markets. Because of this Im 
minded to find his account to be truthful.
So, turning to his account, I note that hes mentioned coming into contact with Golden 
Markets after clicking on an online advert apparently supported by well-known celebrities. 
Ive seen what I think is likely to be the same advert and it is a fake endorsement  for which 
there has been significant recent press coverage, specifically by one of the celebrities 
appearing to endorse the merchant explicitly stating that these firms are scammers and that 
he has no connection with them whatsoever. So, the fact the merchant was using a faked 
celebrity endorsement to advertise their website immediately gives me cause for concern.
I note Mr As description of the tactics used by Golden Markets. Mr A was told by Golden 
Markets that Amazon shares were about to soar and he would stand to make good profits. 
But when the payments were made, the balance quickly disappeared, even though half of 
the available balances hadnt yet been invested. 
Theres a body of external information available through various regulators, law enforcement 
agencies, government agencies, press cuttings and the card schemes that repeat the tactics 
used by Golden Markets. Which does lead me to seriously question whether any actual 
trades were being placed on the outcomes of financial markets or whether in fact the 
merchant is offering little more than a video game or simulation.
There is further evidence in the form of a warning on the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
website, dated 25 May 2018, which suggests the merchant may not be acting legitimately it 
says:
We believe this firm has been providing financial services or products in the UK without our 
authorisation. Find out why to be especially wary of dealing with this unauthorised firm and 
how to protect yourself from scammers.
Golden Markets is no longer operating and has not operated for some time. There are also 
several online reviews from victims that share very similar experiences to that of Mr As.
Taking all of this together, I dont think its likely Golden Markets was operating a legitimate 
enterprise. This means that I think it has made misrepresentations to Mr A  specifically that 
they were running a genuine enterprise through which he could ever have got back more 
than his deposits from the platform. Im also satisfied that if Mr A had known this, he wouldnt 
have deposited any money, so he was induced into the contract on the basis of these 
misrepresentations.
Breach of contract 
Here, Mr A has deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those 
funds on an investment platform, purchase Amazon shares and being able to withdraw them as and when he wished. Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual 
promises  Im satisfied there was a transaction (the deposit-transaction) as defined by s.75.
It follows, I think, that Golden Markets had contractual obligations:
a) To enable Mr A to use the funds from his deposits on an investment platform to 
purchase Amazon shares;
and 
b) To enable Mr A to withdraw the funds deposited as and when he wished.
Mr A wasnt provided with Amazon shares, in that he didnt receive share certificates or 
confirmation that a particular amount of Amazon shares had been purchased. He might have 
made losses or profits from his investment  so a breach of the former term has not  on the 
balance of probabilities  caused him to lose trading profits and he would (on balance) been 
left no better or worse off than when he made the deposits.   
It follows that as a breach of contract can be identified, Mr As loss amounts to the full 
amount of each of his deposits.
Im satisfied compensation of £100 already paid by Nationwide in respect of its customer 
service failings was reasonable and I make no further award on this matter. 
Putting things right
Ive established two grounds Mr A could have recovered his deposit-transactions:
Misrepresentation: Im satisfied Mr A has a claim for misrepresentation on the 
grounds that Golden Markets made a series of misrepresentations, namely that it 
was operating a legitimate enterprise and that Mr A could purchase Amazon shares, 
access his money freely and earn a profit from his deposit-transactions. 
Breach of contract: Im satisfied Mr A also has a claim for breach of contract as the 
merchant breached the verbal promises to Mr A. Namely that his deposit transactions 
would finance the purchase of Amazon shares. This provides another basis for 
recovery. 
As a claim for misrepresentation gives the highest sum, Nationwide should put Mr A back 
into the position he would have been had the deposit-transactions totalling £4,635.22 had 
not been entered into. So, he should receive refunds of these amounts, less any amounts 
credited to him by Golden Markets. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should refund Mr A the deposit-
transactions, plus interest. It should:
Refund the deposit-transactions, less any amounts credited by Golden Markets; 
Pay 8% interest on those sums from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement.
If Nationwide Building Society deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this 
award it should provide Mr A with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 28 January 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman