DRN-3953400
The complaint
Mr Z complains about a decision by Starling Bank Limited (who Ill call Starling) not to take 
his chargeback claim to arbitration.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Starling, but I dont think theyve been reasonable here. Please let 
me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a debit card, as was the case 
here, it might be possible to make a chargeback claim. 
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Starling, its administered by Mastercard and 
they set the rules. Starling didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good 
practice for them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
Starling did submit a chargeback but when the merchant defended the claim they couldve 
taken the claim to arbitration with Mastercard, but chose not to.
I dont think that decision was fair at the time as I dont think the evidence suggests the 
merchant had provided a defence that would have been likely to succeed.
The merchant explained that the parcel had been delivered but that wasnt disputed by Mr Z. 
He disputed that the goods hed ordered hadnt been provided, as instead of the jewellery 
hed expected, there was just an apple in the box.
The merchant also explained that the packaging in the photographs Mr Z had provided was 
not the same packaging as they used and was not consistent with the packaging Royal Mail 
said they had within their network. I dont think that helps the merchants defence as if Mr Z 
was trying to make a fraudulent claim and had switched the jewellery for an apple, he would 
surely have used the same packaging the goods arrived in. The fact that different packaging 
was present would suggest it was likely the packaging was switched before it was delivered. 
So, I dont think the merchant had provided a reasonable defence to the chargeback claim 
and I therefore think Starling were unfair not to take the claim to arbitration.
Putting things right
Mr Z has therefore been deprived of the opportunity to get his money back and I think, to 
resolve the issue, it would be reasonable for Starling to refund the cost of the jewellery Mr Z 
purchased.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and tell Starling Bank Limited to 
refund the £3,570 Mr Z paid and to add 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement as Mr Z has been deprived of that money.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman