DRN-2800769
The complaint
Ms Ms complaint is that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) hasnt adequately 
compensated her after she was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In June 2018 Ms M was planning to invest around £65,000. She planned to send the money 
to her financial advisor who would arrange the investment. Ms M received an email which 
she believed to be from her financial advisor, which provided the account details she needed 
to send the money to. 
Ms M attempted to send the money via her online banking app but the payments werent 
successful. She called Clydesdale which confirmed the first payment of approximately 
£24,000 had been placed on hold in order to carry out further checks. In order to remove the 
hold and process the payment they asked her to confirm the amount shed transferred and 
last few digits of the account number the payment was being made to. As Ms M was able to 
correctly provide this information Clydesdale released the payment.
In the same call it explained the transfer limit from Ms Ms account was £30,000 per working 
day. So the further two payments of £20,000 she had attempted had likely been blocked 
because shed exceeded her daily limit. She was advised she could make the remaining 
payments over the following days as long as she didnt exceed the limit of £30,000 per 
working day and was told subsequent payments likely wouldnt be placed on hold as shed 
verified the payment of £24,000.
In August 2018 Ms M was informed by her financial advisor its emails had been intercepted 
and her money couldnt be found. Ms M realised at this point shed paid her money to a 
scammer  who had intercepted or hacked the financial advisers email account  rather 
than her financial advisor. The next day she reported this to Clydesdale who investigated the 
matter. It contacted the receiving bank and was able to retrieve around £29 of Ms Ms 
money. 
Ms M pursued the financial advisor legally and it reimbursed her for the full £65,000 shed 
lost. But in doing this she says she incurred around £15,000 in legal fees. Shes also 
detailed the significant amount of stress shed suffered as a result of the scam.
In May 2019, after shed received reimbursement from her financial advisor, she raised a 
complaint with Clydesdale as she felt it shouldve carried out more checks before processing 
the first payment. Had it done this she felt none of the payments would have been made and 
she wouldnt have suffered the stress and financial loss she had. She felt Clydesdale should 
compensate her for this as it was partially responsible for the situation.
Clydesdale responded to her complaint but didnt accept it was at fault. It was satisfied it had 
followed sufficient security procedures and had contacted the receiving banks to try and 
retrieve the lost funds. As Ms M didnt accept this she brought the complaint to our service to 
consider. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They felt Clydesdale ought to have done more to 
warn Ms M of email interception scams and the importance of checking the payment details 
shed received before making payment. Had it done this, they thought it was likely the scam 
wouldve been uncovered before the payment was made. They asked Clydesdale to pay 
Ms M £300 in compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience it had caused.
Neither Clydesdale or Ms M accepted the investigators recommendations. Clydesdale 
maintained it had acted reasonably in processing the payment. It said Ms M wouldve been 
able to provide persuasive answers to any further questions it mightve asked about the 
payment and wouldve felt Clydesdale was being intrusive. It also felt her financial advisor 
had accepted liability for the situation so it wouldnt be reasonable to also hold Clydesdale 
accountable.
Ms M didnt feel £300 wasnt enough compensation considering the significant legal fees 
shed incurred and the stress shed been under. As neither party agreed, the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute the transfers Ms M made were authorised payments even though she 
was the victim of a sophisticated scam. She made the payments herself and under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Ms M is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
Clydesdale should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Its clear Clydesdale did have a system in place to identify unusual transactions on Ms Ms 
account, her first payment attempt of £24,000 was placed on hold until further checks could 
be carried out. Ms M was asked to confirm the account number she was sending the 
payment too and the value of the transaction. But I dont think in asking this Clydesdale went 
far enough with its questioning or gave adequate warnings as I think it reasonably ought to 
have done.
I agree that had Clydesdale asked Ms M more about the circumstances of her payment, 
such as what it was for and who it was to, she likely wouldve been able to answer these 
questions persuasively. Afterall, she believed the account details she was using were 
genuine.But I think the bank also reasonably ought to have asked Ms M more about the payment 
details, for example, how they came about, whether she had verified them and how she 
received them. I say this because Id expect Clydesdale to have a reasonable knowledge of 
the types of common scams it can expect to see and apply this knowledge when intervening 
with a customers payment. Understanding how a payment has come about is an important 
part of this. And whilst Ive considered Clydesdales point that a consumer might feel these 
questions are intrusive, I dont consider this a reason not to adequately probe its customers 
to ensure its offering them a reasonable level of protection.
Had the bank questioned her sufficiently it seems likely it wouldve uncovered shed received 
the account details by email. And Id expect Clydesdale to have identified this as a risk given 
how well known and common email interception scams are. And in identifying this risk I 
wouldve expected it to have warned Ms M about this type of scam and advised her to check 
the payment details she was using were genuine.
Id also add that general information on Clydesdales own website around how to spot and 
avoid scams includes advice to check the legitimacy of any new payments. So even if it had 
been satisfied by all of Ms Ms answers, I think it still reasonably ought to have given her the 
basic warning that she should ensure she had verified the information shed received by 
email. Afterall, Clydesdale is familiar with how scams can work in a way I wouldnt 
necessarily expect a consumer would be.
Had it warned her sufficiently, I think its likely Ms M wouldve contacted her financial advisor 
to verify the details, at which point the scam wouldve been uncovered. I say this because I 
think a reasonable person, transferring this amount of money and hearing about this 
particular scam from their bank for the first time would check the payment details. And in 
Ms Ms case, I dont think making a phone call to her financial advisor, that she had an 
established relationship with, wouldve been particularly taxing or inconvenient. It doesnt 
appear the investment she was planning on making was particularly time sensitive and shed 
already been informed the money couldnt be transferred all in one go. So it was already 
clear it wouldve taken a few days and a phone call to her advisor wouldnt affect this.
Clydesdale has said the financial advisor was at fault and feels it has accepted liability for 
the matter. I havent seen anything to suggest it has accepted liability for the situation, but in 
any event, I dont think that matters. I dont feel Clydesdale acted as I wouldve expected in 
this case. And because of this, I think its more likely than not it missed an opportunity to 
prevent Ms M losing her money. 
Having said this, Ms M has already received reimbursement, of the full amount she lost, from 
her financial advisor and it wouldnt be fair of me to tell Clydesdale to compensate her for 
this loss again. And although Ms M has said shes incurred significant solicitors fees in 
pursuing the return of the funds from her advisor, it was her choice to pursue her advisor in 
this way rather than pursue the matter with Clydesdale or bring the complaint to our service. 
So I dont think it would be fair to hold Clydesdale liable for the costs related to this. 
However, as I think Clydesdale could have prevented the payments, I do think its partly 
responsible for the distress and inconveniences Ms M suffered.  Overall I think £300 is fair 
compensation in this case. I recognise that Ms M doesnt feel this is sufficient and Ive 
carefully considered the additional information shes provided regarding what she went through. And whilst I dont doubt how difficult this situation was for her, I think this amount is 
a reasonable reflection of Clydesdales responsibility in what happened.
Ive also had to consider that the payment was made from Ms Ms sole account. So although 
shes described the impact this has had on both her and her husband, and I dont doubt it 
has affected them both, I can only reasonably hold Clydesdale liable for the impact on Ms M 
as shes its customer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Clydesdale Bank Plc to make a 
payment of £300 to Ms M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021. 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman