DRN-3920504
The complaint
Ms H complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF), unfairly turned down her claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA). Ms H is represented by a professional representative (PR).
What happened
Ms H had been a member of a timeshare club operated by a company I will call D and its 
predecessors and had made a number of purchases. In 2011, while on holiday she 
purchased additional points at a cost of £11,500. This was funded by a loan provided by 
BPF which was repaid in November 2014. According to D Ms H and her family made 
numerous holiday reservations.
In August 2017 PR submitted a detailed letter of claim to BPF. In summary it said that the 
sales representative acting for D had made a number of misrepresentations. These included:
The offer of inflation proofed holidays.
Access to exclusive resorts.
The purchase of an asset.
PR also said that the agreement Ms H had signed included unfair terms and there was an 
unfair relationship as set out in s.140A CCA. PR included a witness statement from Ms H in 
which she said she had been subjected to undue pressure and false promises had been 
made.
BPF responded with a detailed rebuttal and the matter was brought to this service. It was 
considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He concluded 
there was insufficient evidence of misrepresentation and no basis for concluding there had 
been an unfair relationship. PR asked that the complaint be considered by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
The S. 75 Claims for Misrepresentation
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Ms L) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (BPF) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
A claim for misrepresentation against H would ordinarily be made under s. 2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Others [2011] 
EWHC B24 (Ch) (Green v Eadie) that a claim under s. 2(1) of the MA is an action founded 
in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued (see s. 2 of the LA).
Ms H made like claims against BPF under s. 75 of the CCA and the limitation period for 
those claims is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claims. As noted in paragraph 
5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, BPF may adopt any defence that would 
have been or would be open to the Supplier, including that of limitation.
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim against 
the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, to the extent that 
the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the creditor may shelter behind 
that exclusion or limitation.
So, this means that Ms H had six years from the date on which the causes of action accrued 
to make her s. 75 claim. This she has done.
Misrepresentation
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to 
enter into the contract.
PR says that Ms H was pressurised into making the purchase. I have noted she had made 
several previous purchases and had been a member for many years at the time of this 
purchase. I have noted Ms Hs witness statement, but I am not persuaded that she was 
misled during the sales process. For example I note that she did not sign the agreement on 
the day of the presentation, but returned to do so the following day. She also would have 
had a good knowledge of how D operated and, for example, I would have expected her to 
know that the resorts were not exclusive to members.
The documentation runs contrary to the allegations made by PR that the points were sold as 
an investment or asset. It is clear that they were sold as means of obtaining holiday 
accommodation. And I have noted that Ms H and her family have made extensive use of the holidays offered by D.
As our adjudicator has said the sales representatives would have put the best gloss on the 
product and emphasised the benefits membership would offer, but that does not mean that 
this amounted to misrepresentation. 
Quite simply, I cannot say that BPF was given clear evidence of misrepresentation and I 
cannot conclude it was wrong to reject the claim.
The S.140A Claims for an Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationships between Ms H and BPF were 
unfair for the purpose of s. 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it applies 
to the credit agreement  which it does.
However, as a claim under Section 140A is an action to recover any sum recoverable by 
virtue of any enactment under Section 9 of the LA, Ive considered that provision here.
It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel v Patel) that the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the 
time the claim was made. The limitation period is six years and I am satisfied it was made in 
time.
However, Im not persuaded that Ms H could be said to have a cause of action in negligence 
against BPF anyway.
Ms Hs alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to her personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a 
claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little or nothing to persuade me that BPF assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly.
PR seems to suggest that BPF owed Ms H a duty of care to ensure that D complied with the 
2010 Regulations. And PR says that BPF breached that duty by failing to carry out  before 
granting Ms H credit and paying D  the due diligence necessary to ensure that the product 
purchased by Ms H wasnt sold by D in breach of the 2010 Regulations. 
English law recognises that there cant be a duty of care owed to everyone, in every situation 
and against all forms of harm. And there are legal tests to ascertain whether a duty of care is 
owed to someone in a given situation. They are:
1. A three-stage test set down in Caparo Industries v Dickman [1990]  which asks whether:
i. The damage was foreseeable.
ii. There was a sufficiently proximate relationship between the parties.
iii. Its fair, just and reasonable in all the circumstances to impose a duty of care.
2. The assumption of responsibility test in Henderson v Merrett Syndicates Ltd [1995], 
which was concerned with whether the defendant had taken on the responsibility of 
exercising reasonable care and skill towards the claimant.
3. Situations in which a duty of care was owed to the claimant by the defendant because such a duty had already been established by the courts.
Yet despite PRs submissions, it hasnt persuaded me with reference to any of these tests or 
relevant authorities that the lender owed the debtor and the purchaser of a timeshare a duty 
of care to ensure that the product they were purchasing wasnt sold by DC in breach of a 
relevant regulation  particularly one that imposed a criminal sanction.
Affordability
PR says that the BPF didnt perform adequate credit checks or review Ms Hs credit file 
when approving the loan, and that they didnt conform to the relevant guidance on lending. 
However, when considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large consideration is 
whether the borrowing was likely to prove unaffordable in practice and whether the 
complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So even if I 
was persuaded that the lender did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding), 
for me to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that the 
credit granted by them was likely to be unaffordable and that Ms H suffered a loss as a 
result. 
I note she paid off the loan in 2014 and Ive not been provided with sufficient evidence from 
Ms H to suggest she didnt have enough disposable income to sustainably afford 
repayments against this loan, and I dont therefore think it would be reasonable to suggest 
the lender was irresponsible when providing the credit.
In summary I cannot see why any of Ms Hs claims were likely to have succeeded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman