DRN-2411070
The complaint
Mr E complains that Chubb European Group SE has turned down a rental car damage claim
he made on a travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr E has travel insurance as a benefit of his bank charge card.
In November 2017, while driving a hire car abroad, Mr E had a car accident, causing
damage to the car. The car hire company put the damage costs at around €16,000, which it
said Mr E was responsible for paying. As he hadnt taken out insurance through the car hire
company, Mr E made a claim to Chubb for the costs of the damage in January 2018.
Chubb considered the claim under the car rental benefits section of Mr Es policy. It noted
that the rental agreement with the car hire company said that if Mr E was in a car accident,
hed need to provide a Police report. Mr E hadnt got a Police report at the time of the
accident. So Chubb turned down the claim because it said the policy specifically excluded
claims where a policyholder acted outside of the car hire agreement.
Mr E wasnt happy with Chubbs decision. He said case law in the country where the
accident had happened said that where a driver was involved in an accident which didnt
include any third parties, they werent required to obtain a Police report. Nonetheless, he
went on to get a Police report from the local Police force in March 2019. He asked us to look
into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Es complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Mr E had been
acting outside of the terms of the car rental agreement at the time of the accident itself. And
he didnt think the delay in Mr E providing a Police report had made a material difference to
Chubbs ability to consider the claim. So he thought Chubb should pay Mr Es claim, together
with £100 compensation for delays in the handling of it.
Chubb disagreed. It said Mr E hadnt complied with a policy condition which required
policyholders to tell it about claims within 30 days. Mr E had taken around eight weeks to
notify it about the claim. It also said that the policy terms required policyholders to obtain an
accident report to support their claim - but that Mr E had initially failed to provide the car hire
company with this information.
It said the damage on the car hire companys damage report was inconsistent with what Mr
E had said happened  as there was damage to both sides of the car. And it said if Mr E had
told it about the claim within the time limits, it wouldve ensured he provided the necessary
information to the car hire company. It added that it couldve also had the chance to inspect
the car to assess whether the damage should be covered by the policy terms.
I issued my provisional decision on 5 November 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I thought Chubb should reconsider Mr Es claim. I said:
Insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And they mustnt turn down claims
unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about the circumstances of Mr Es claim and the
terms of the policy to decide whether I think Chubb has acted fairly.
Chubb initially turned down Mr Es claim because it said he hadnt provided a Police report to
help it assess the claim. It said this wouldve given information about whether Mr E had been
drinking, if he was speeding etc. It concluded that hed been acting outside of the terms of
his rental agreement with the car hire company.
Like the investigator, Im not persuaded it was fair for Chubb to turn down Mr Es claim on
this basis. He did ultimately provide a Police report (albeit over a year after he made the
claim) and the Polices findings dont suggest that they felt Mr E had been drinking or driving
dangerously. On the face of things, he slid on the road during icy weather. So I dont think
the delay in providing this report prejudiced Chubbs ability to consider Mr Es claim.
Chubb has now raised another policy term which it thinks applies to the circumstances of Mr
Es claim. So Ive considered this to decide whether I think its fair for Chubb to rely on a
breach of this term to turn down Mr Es claim.
Mr Es policy includes a section called Claims Conditions and Requirements. The first of
these says: All claims and potential claims must be reported within 30 days.
Its common ground that the accident happened on 24 November 2017. It doesnt look as
though Mr E first notified Chubb about the accident until 14 January 2018 and it didnt
receive a copy of an accident report until March 2018. So its clear the incident wasnt
reported to Chubb until around eight weeks after it happened.
Mr E says the delay was because he didnt get a report from the car hire company setting
out the damage and the costs until 9 January 2018. So he didnt think there was a reason to
notify Chubb about the claim until he knew what its liability would be. Ive thought about this
and whether I think it made a difference to Chubbs ability to fairly assess the claim.
Chubb says the delays in the claim being reported meant its ability to fully investigate and
assess Mr Es claim was limited. So I asked Chubb what it wouldve done if the accident had
been reported within the 30-day period.
It says it wouldve ensured Mr E provided an accident report in a timely way (as there was
some delay in this being provided). And it said it mightve been in a position to inspect the
car and validate the damage if itd been notified within the time limits to confirm when and
how the damage had likely happened. It said there wasnt a standard procedure for this, but
it thinks it might have been possible using a claims investigation company. It said these
companies are experts in arranging interviews and inspections if theyre needed. If these
investigations cant be carried out within a short timeframe, it prejudices Chubbs chances of
investigating evidence, because it gets harder to obtain.
Chubb also said it wasnt aware whether the hire car had been written off or repaired within
30 days of Mr Es accident. Because it didnt see an accident report until around four
months after the crash and because it didnt have the chance to assess the damaged car, it
felt it was denied the opportunity to validate the claim.
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im not currently persuaded that Chubbs position was
prejudiced by the delay in the claim being notified. Thats because I dont think Chubb has
shown its more likely than not that the car wouldve been available for inspection or that an
inspection wouldve been able to take place. It mentioned it believed it mightve been able to
organise an inspection, but there wasnt a standard procedure in these types of cases.And there were some delays in Chubb being able to get the information it needed from the
car hire company. So it isnt clear that it wouldve been able to obtain the accident report and
arrange an inspection within the 30-day period immediately after the accident. Especially if
the car hire company had had the car repaired or loaned it out in the meantime.
So overall, I currently dont think Chubbs shown its most likely been prejudiced either by the
delay in getting a police report, or by Mr Es failure to report the claim within 30 days of the
incident. This means I think the fair and reasonable outcome here is for Chubb to reconsider
the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Its important I point
out that Im not directing Chubb to pay Mr Es claim  I simply think that it should reconsider
it without reference to the 30-day reporting clause or the delay in getting a police report. Its
open to Chubb to investigate the claim in line with its claims process.
I appreciate it took some time for Chubb to get an accident report. But I do think it had the
information it needed to make a decision on Mr Es claim far sooner than it did. So I dont
think it handled the claim as promptly as it mightve done, which I think wouldve caused Mr
E additional worry and upset at an already worrying time. This means I agree with the
investigator that compensation of £100 for the delays in handling Mr Es claim feels fair.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Mr E broadly accepted my provisional decision.
Chubb strongly disagreed with my provisional findings and it sent me a detailed response. 
Ive summarised its main points below:
It felt Mr E had knowingly broken the terms of his hire agreement and insurance 
contract and had left it unable to assess the claim in a meaningful way;
Mr E had refused to complete the hire companys accident form; he hadnt reported 
the crash to the Police and he hadnt made the claim for around eight weeks;
The car rental benefit was part of a bundle of benefits  it wasnt intended to replace 
other insurance. Mr E wouldve been expected to take out comprehensive insurance 
with the car hire company. As hed refused this; hed left Chubb exposed to an 
avoidable risk;
Mr E ought to have reported the serious accident to the Police and it couldnt see 
why a reasonable person wouldnt have reported it. While, it accepted that there was 
no strict requirement to report accidents in the country the accident had happened in, 
it couldnt see why Mr E hadnt reported it;
The car rental agreement had a strict requirement to report accidents or damage to 
the Police  but Mr E hadnt done so. He had a responsibility to be aware of the 
terms of his hire agreement.  By failing to comply with the rental agreement, he had 
breached the policy terms. And its normal for claimants to report incidents to the 
Police because the need to provide accurate, enforceable evidence makes it easier 
to validate claims;
Mr E should not have waited to report the claim. As he didnt have insurance through 
the car hire company, hed have known hed need to claim on the Chubb policy. So it 
didnt accept that he was waiting to find out the extent of the damage;
It felt Mr E had been negligent in terms of good insurance practice;
It didnt accept that it was reasonable for me to question what Chubb wouldve done 
if Mr E had reported the claim within 30 days. If hed done so, it wouldnt be in the 
position it was now and wouldve been able to verify the circumstances of the 
incident;There were a number of inconsistencies in the information Mr E had provided  
including when the accident had happened; and the location and extent of the 
damage. His failure to make the claim in a timely way had made it impossible for 
Chubb to investigate the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think Chubb should reconsider Mr Es claim and Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Chubb that Ive carefully considered everything IPA has said and sent me 
in response to my provisional decision and Im grateful for its detailed response. I wont be 
addressing each point its raised specifically, instead Ill be focusing on what I think are the 
key issues.
First, I accept Mr E didnt take out insurance through the car hire company. But Im not 
persuaded this ought reasonably to make a difference to this claim. Thats because whether 
Chubb intended the car rental benefit to be a secondary bundle of benefits or not, the policy 
did provide cover following a policyholder having an accident in a hired vehicle. And the 
policy states that car rental benefit cover applies if a policyholder is able to decline optional 
insurance offered by the rental company. In this case, its clear Mr E hadnt opted to take out 
cover through the rental company. So it follows that he was reasonably entitled to make a 
claim on the policy. 
Chubbs provided evidence of correspondence between it and the car hire company. I 
acknowledge this shows that Mr E didnt provide the car hire company with a completed 
accident report. But this was effectively a matter between Mr E and the car hire company. It 
didnt prevent the rental company viewing the damage or working out the damage costs. It 
also didnt stop it ultimately providing Chubb with photos of the damage, or in drawing up the 
outstanding bill. Chubb has had sight of all of this information.
I appreciate that Chubb feels strongly that the delay in Mr E providing a Police report had a 
detrimental impact on its ability to investigate the claim. It does accept though that reporting 
an accident to the Police wasnt a strict requirement in the country Mr E was travelling in. I 
agree that it wouldve been helpful if Mr E had reported the accident to the Police at the time 
of the accident. 
But as I explained in my provisional decision, Mr E has now provided a Police report, albeit 
significantly post-dated. This doesnt suggest that Mr E was acting outside of the law  it 
simply states that Mr Es hire car slipped during icy weather. So I think that while Mr E 
complied late with the terms of the rental agreement, he ultimately has provided this 
information. And its available for Chubb to assess now as part of its consideration of the 
claim.
Theres no dispute that Mr E didnt make his claim within the 30-day timeframe set out in the 
claims conditions. So I can understand why Chubb thinks this term applies to Mr Es claim. 
But when making decisions, I need to consider not just the strict contractual position, but 
also whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I can depart from a strict application 
of the contract if I think it results in an unfair result.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I needed to think about what impact the delay in 
reporting the claim had on Chubbs ability to assess it. That was why I asked Chubb to tell 
me what it wouldve done had Mr E reported the claim within 30 days. I appreciate Chubb feels this is the wrong approach for me to take. I disagree though. In making my decision, I 
need to decide if Chubbs been able to show its lost out as the result of a technical breach of 
the terms.
If Chubb had been able to point to a clear process which it wouldve followed within 30 days 
and which wouldve most likely resulted in it being able to fully investigate Mr Es claim; Id 
likely have reached another outcome. But while Chubb explained that it may have been able 
to arrange an inspection of the car, it also told me that there wasnt a standard procedure for 
doing so. This means I dont think its shown it couldve taken steps to inspect the damage or 
assess the car before it was re-lent out or repaired. And it does now have a copy of the 
accident report; photographs and Police report, which it can look at and corroborate. So Im 
still not persuaded, on the evidence to hand, that Chubb has been able to show that its 
position and ability to look into the claim was prejudiced by learning about the claim a few 
weeks after the 30-day timeframe.
Chubb has raised some inconsistencies between Mr Es version of events and the evidence 
 including the damage sustained and the date of the accident. It feels its now impossible 
for it to investigate these inconsistencies. Id like to reiterate to Chubb that Im not directing it 
to pay Mr Es claim. Im simply directing it to reassess the claim, looking into the evidence it 
does have and investigating any concerns it has. It hasnt put the inconsistencies its 
identified to Mr E and it hasnt given him the opportunity to respond to them. This means it 
isnt appropriate for me to comment on them here. Its open to Chubb to fully investigate the 
claim and decide whether or not its covered. If Chubbs investigations lead it to conclude the 
claim isnt payable, then it will need to explain its conclusions to Mr E. He may then be able 
to make a new complaint to us about that issue alone.
Overall, I still think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Chubb to 
reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions. Chubb didnt respond to 
my provisional findings as to whether it agrees to pay Mr E £100 for its handling of the claim. 
So I see no reason to change my conclusion on this point.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Es complaint in part.
I direct Chubb European Group SE to:
- Reconsider Mr Es claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy;
- Pay Mr E £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman