DRN-4283257
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Nationwide Building Society wouldnt add Mrs P to Mr Ps
FlexAccount.
What happened
I previously issued my provisional decision on this case. It was my intention to come to a 
different outcome to the Investigator. Because of this, I wanted to give both parties the 
chance to respond with anything else they wanted me to consider before I came to my final 
decision on the matter.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision. 
Mr P has a FlexAccount with Nationwide in his sole name. He wanted his wife, Mrs P, to be
added to the account as a joint account holder. Mrs P applied; however, Nationwide rejected
the application stating the reason for this was because Mrs P doesnt have any credit history.
Both Mr and Mrs P were very unhappy with Nationwides decision not to add Mrs P to the
account  they say this has caused them embarrassment. And that there shouldnt be any
negative information on Mrs Ps credit file and so its unfair of them not to add her.
The Investigator who looked into the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. They
explained that the application form confirms an application can be rejected. And the
Investigator explained that the rejection was due to Mrs P not having any credit history. The
Investigator added that these same criteria would apply to all customers and so they didnt
feel that Mr or Mrs P had been treated unfairly, or differently to other customers in the same
position.
Mr P didnt agree with the Investigators view  and reiterated that there isnt any negative
information being reported about Mrs P to the credit reference agency and so Nationwides
decision not to add her is unfair.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the information available to me, it is my current intention to uphold
the complaint.
I accept that it is up to Nationwide to decide who it offers accounts to. Who it offers accounts
to is a commercial decision that this service generally wouldnt interfere with  unless, I were
to find that Mr and Mrs P had been treated unfairly, which I currently find to be the case.
Nationwide has sent me information about the process it follows when adding an account 
holder. This confirms that for the FlexAccount, which Mrs P was applying to join, a credit
check would need to be completed. It also confirmed that if the person applying for an
account didnt have a credit history, then they would reject the application.
In this case, I have seen evidence of Nationwide checking its system using Mrs Ps details. I
can see that no matches came back following a credit search  which suggests that Mrs P
doesnt have a credit history. Because of this Nationwides process confirms that the
application should be rejected, which is what it did. But I dont currently find, in the
circumstances of this particular complaint, that this is fair.
I asked Nationwide what risk it was attempting to mitigate by rejecting Mrs Ps application. It
explained that the account she was applying to be added to is one with the option to add an
overdraft facility. And it would need to be confident that if she was added to the account, that
she would be able to afford any overdraft repayments, given that she would be jointly liable
for any debt accrued on the account.
I agree that Nationwide have a responsibility to check that an account holder can afford and
sustain any borrowing before agreeing to lend. And I accept that one of the ways it could do
this is by checking a persons credit history.
But in this case, as far as Im aware, there isnt an overdraft facility currently on this account.
So, there doesnt appear to be any immediate risk of Mrs P not being able to afford to repay
any borrowing, because Im not aware there is any. Based on this, and given that Mrs P has
no credit history, as opposed to a poor credit history, I currently find the risk of Mrs P being
added to the account very low. And I dont currently find that Nationwides reasoning behind
why it wont add her to the account to be fair.
In addition to what Ive said, the terms and conditions of current account state:
We may agree to give you an arranged overdraft if you meet the eligibility criteria. If you ask
us for an arranged overdraft or to increase an arranged overdraft, we may carry out
searches with licensed credit reference agencies before deciding to give you one.
This suggests that checks would be carried out prior to an overdraft facility being granted,
which I think is fair  given Nationwides responsibility to lend appropriately. I would expect
Nationwide to carry out checks before lending to Mr and Mrs P, if the time came when they
wanted an overdraft facility. And I think it would also be fair of Nationwide to assess the risk
of lending to both of them at this time. I accept that this could also result in an overdraft
facility being declined.
But as it stands, Im not aware there is an overdraft facility, so no lending risk. And Mr and
Mrs P havent mentioned an immediate intention is to apply for an overdraft. If they did want
to do this in the future, then Id expect Nationwide to assess the risk of lending at that point
in time. And it would then be up to Nationwide to decide if Mr and Mrs P meet its lending
criteria at this point.
I have noted that Nationwide say that Mr and Mrs P could apply for a different type of
account that doesnt offer an overdraft facility. But I dont find this to be a fair or suitable
resolution to the complaint.
Based on what Ive said, I dont currently think Nationwides reasons for its decision to not
add Mrs P to Mr Ps Flex account are fair. And it should put things right for Mr and Mrs P by
adding Mrs P to the account (if the only reason it wont add her is because she doesnt have
a credit history). And it should pay Mr and Mrs P £200 for the distress and inconvenience
this situation has caused.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision to say they accepted it. Because of this, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. It follows that my decision is to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Putting things right
I order Nationwide to put things right for Mr and Mrs P by:
adding Mrs P to Mr Ps FlexAccount as a joint account holder. And; 
pay Mr and Mrs P £200 for the distress and inconvenience this situation has caused
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. I order Nationwide 
Building Society to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman