DRN-1772221
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a credit card. 
What happened
Following a marketing exercise in June 2001 Mr G took out a credit card with HSBC. At the 
same time he was sold a regular premium PPI policy to cover his credit card payments.
The policy cost 73p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance on his credit card. The 
policy wouldve paid 10% of the monthly outstanding balance if Mr G was unable to work due 
to accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld because he was not convinced that 
sufficient consent was obtained from Mr G before PPI was applied to his account.
So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Gs complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
HSBC had to make it clear to Mr G that PPI was optional and make sure he agreed to take 
the policy. Mr G says this wasnt done, he says he didnt know he had PPI. HSBC says Mr G 
applied for his credit card by post and wouldve had to tick a separate box on the application 
form in order for PPI to be applied to his account. 
Due to the passage of time HSBC have not been able to provide a copy of Mr Gs 
application form but it has given us a sample copy of one it says Mr G wouldve completed.
Ive looked at this carefully and I can see there is a separate section on the application form 
that deals with PPI. The application form gives the customer the option to tick a box If you 
require cover or do not require cover. Although there are two options given I dont think 
using the word require makes it abundantly clear that the product is optional.
But in Mr Gs case I dont think this matters because I cant see from the sample application 
whether Mr G ticked the box to take PPI, to decline it or whether he ticked a box at all. So I 
cant say Mr G agreed to take PPI and it is for this reason I uphold his complaint.
Putting things rightHSBC should put Mr G in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
 
A. HSBC should find out how much Mr G would owe on his credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
 
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
 
HSBC should then refund the difference between what Mr G owes and what he would 
have owed.
 
If Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, HSBC can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 
B. If  when HSBC works out what Mr G would have owed each month without PPI  Mr 
G paid more than enough to clear his balance, HSBC should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Mr G paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr 
G wouldve owed HSBC something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 
15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 
C. HSBC should tell Mr G what its done to work out A and B.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Gs complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. I 
direct it pay the fair compensation as outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman