DRN-2296156
The complaint
Mr T complains that Capital One (Europe) plc trading as Luma unfairly refused to process 
his claim for a refund under s75 Consumer Credit Act.
What happened
On 16 August 2020 Mr T made a purchase for £47.72 using his Luma credit card. The 
purchase was for a background check that Mr T required as part of an application to be able 
to work with a large online company.
Mr T wasnt successful with his application and the email confirming this said that this was 
due to the background checks in his employment. Mr T says the background check wasnt 
completed as the company didnt have the necessary documents. Hed now like Capital One 
to apply for a chargeback for this payment.
Capital One said the evidence they had showed the background check had been done even 
if Mr T hadnt got the outcome hed hoped for. As such the service had been provided. In 
addition, the value for this check was £47.72 and this was below the minimum threshold 
required to meet the criteria for a refund under s75 Consumer Credit Act. In the 
circumstances it couldnt process Mr Ts claim.
Our investigator felt Capital One had dealt with the complaint fairly. There was no 
information to show the background hadnt been done but, in any event, the value of the 
purchase was under the minimum threshold required. For that reason, she couldnt agree 
Capital One had done anything wrong and she wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
Mr T disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont consider Capital One has made a mistake, as Ill now explain.
Wheres the information available on any particular point is incomplete, disputed or missing, 
Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities, in other words whats more likely than 
not to have happened taking into account the other information available and the wider 
circumstances of the case.
 Under s75 Consumer Credit Act (CCA), a consumer can apply to the credit provider for a 
refund where theres a breach of contract or misrepresentation. However, there are limits on 
this right and one of those is that the value of any item or service must be between £100 and 
£30,000.
In Mr Ts case the disputed payment was for £47.72 and, as such, it fell below the minimum 
required by section 75. I realise this is disappointing for Mr T but Capital One has to comply 
with the regulations and it has no discretion on this point. For that reason, I cant agree 
Capital One was unreasonable in saying it couldnt refund Mr Ts payment under this 
section.
I note Capital One says it has information to suggest the background check was completed. 
If so this would be another reason why Mr Ts claim couldnt be accepted. Although Mr T 
disputes this and says the check wasnt completed properly, Ive seen the message from the 
company he hoped to work with. This explains the background check was done to the 
standards required by local regulations and its own internal standards and that, on that 
basis, Mr T wasnt eligible. On balance it seems probable that a check was done.
However, in this case thats not the key issue as the value of this payment was too low to fit 
within the section 75 criteria.
I know this isnt the decision Mr T was hoping for but, for the reasons set out above, I dont 
consider Capital One was unreasonable in saying it couldnt refund Mr Ts payment in this 
case. I wont therefore be asking Capital One to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman