DRN-2051816
The complaint
Miss O complains Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans irresponsibly lent to her. She 
says she couldnt afford the loan, and further checks wouldve shown this. Miss O says she 
has lost out financially as a result.   
What happened
Miss O was approved for the below loan by Buddy Loans:
Date Capital Amount Term Monthly Repayment
June 2018 £3,750 36 months £182.96
 
Miss O says at the time of the application she was in financial difficulties and was using a 
number of high cost credit providers to supplement her income. She says she needed this 
loan as a way of consolidating some of her existing debts but had Buddy Loans conducted 
further checks it wouldve seen the loan was always unaffordable to her. She was also 
spending a proportion of her monthly income on online gambling websites.
Buddy Loans says it lent responsibly. It says it completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks before lending to Miss O. It says it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment, as well as completing a credit file search on Miss O. It says these checks were 
proportionate to the amount being borrowed, and that the checks showed the loan was likely 
affordable to Miss O.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She felt Buddy Loans shouldve 
completed further checks on Miss O; as her credit file had showed she had a number of 
existing credit commitments and her overall debt level was high. Our investigator argued had 
further checks been completed it is likely Buddy Loans wouldve seen the loan was 
unaffordable. This was because Miss Os outgoings exceeded her income and she was 
using payday loans as well as family and friends to supplement her income.
Buddy Loans disagreed with this assessment. It maintained it had completed proportionate 
checks and therefore its decision to lend was reasonable. As no agreement could be 
reached the matter has been passed to me to issue a final decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Os complaint. Bearing in mind 
the dispute before me, I think that there are a number of overarching questions that I need to 
consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Miss Os complaint. These are:
1. Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss O to satisfy 
itself that she was in a position repay the loan in a sustainable way? 
o If so, did it make a fair decision? 
o If not, would those checks have shown that Miss O would have been able to do so? 
2. Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Ill deal with each in turn.
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss O to satisfy itself 
that she was in a position repay the loan in a sustainable way?
The regulations which applied at the time, required Buddy Loans to carry out an assessment 
on whether Miss O could repay any loan in sustainable way. These checks are referred to as 
an affordability assessment or an affordability check.
This means Buddy Loans needed to consider if any repayments Miss O may be required to 
make would cause her any financial difficulties or have any adverse consequences on her 
finances. The checks also needed to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the 
loan which was being approved.
The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks it has to complete for them to be 
reasonable and proportionate. But these checks needed to be proportionate to the amount of 
credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments and total 
length of the term. 
It is also not sufficient for Buddy Loans to just complete proportionate checks. It also needs 
to consider the information it is provided with and make a fair lending decision.
Finally, it is also important to note that the fact this loan was a guarantor loan, and
therefore, had the security of a guarantee, didnt remove or anyway lessen the obligations 
which applied to Buddy Loans at the time Miss O applied for the loan.
Buddy Loans says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks. It says it completed a 
detailed income and expenditure check on Miss O, as well as checking her credit file. It says 
these checked showed Miss O had sufficient income to meet the monthly repayments. Miss 
Os declared income was a combination of her employment as well as tax benefits related to 
her children. This gave a declared income of around £1,700. Buddy Loans says it completed 
a detailed expenditure call with Miss O to understand which loans she would be 
consolidating with this one. It says these checks showed the reduction in her costs as well 
as her other income would mean the loan was affordable. 
In relation to the credit file Buddy Loans says the fact Miss O had a high credit utilisation on 
her report does not mean Miss O was struggling to meet her credit commitments. 
Ive carefully considered Buddy Loans argument but in this instance I disagree its checks 
were proportionate. The credit file search shows Miss O had had issues managing credit in 
her past. Her credit score is reasonably low, and the overall summary Buddy Loans received 
highlighted that Miss O had a number of historic defaults as well as a high credit utilisation. I 
dont think this in itself is that unusual and it is line with the fact Miss O was seeking to 
consolidate down some of her existing debts. However, that fact does not mean the credit 
file should not be considered carefully. As I mentioned above it is not enough for Buddy Loans to complete the search it also needs to carefully consider the information it is 
presented with.  
In this instance Miss O had an overall credit debt of over £7,500, with a credit utilisation of 
around 96%. I can see form the report Miss O had numerous active accounts; this included a 
bank account with a small overdraft which was completely utilised, a number of existing 
unsecured loans and credit cards. Importantly all of Miss Os credit cards are seemingly 
close to/if not at their full limits. 
The credit file also shows that Miss O had had a significant number of settled short term high 
cost credit loans in the past. There are also some historic defaults, the most recent being a 
couple of years prior to the application of this loan. Whilst this information alone does not 
mean someone may not be credit worthy, I think it is useful to demonstrate that the 
consumer had issues managing their finances in the past. This combined with the increasing 
debt she was in at the time, as well as the high utilisation may indicate someone who is 
struggling to meet their credit commitments.
So, based on the above, Im satisfied Buddy Loans shouldve completed further checks to 
verify Miss O financial circumstances. As it did not it follows that Im not persuaded it 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks in this instance. 
Would further checks have shown Miss O was in a position to repay the loan sustainably?
Ive explained above why Im satisfied Buddy Loans shouldve completed further checks on 
Miss O. It couldve done this in a number of ways such as checking payslips, bills or bank 
statements. Miss O has provided our service with copies of bank statements from the time of 
the application. And in the absence of other information from that time, Ive used this 
information to make my findings.
The statements show that Miss O isnt managing her finances particularly well. Looking 
through them it is clear she is managing to a very tight margin, which sometimes is 
exceeded as she enters in and out of her overdraft. The statements show that she is 
supplementing her income in a number of ways, but a significant factor being borrowing 
money from friends and family. There are also a high number of pay day / short term loans 
on the account; again, suggesting that Miss O was struggling to manage her finances to a 
reasonably sustainable budget.
The statements show Miss Os outgoings are high, and that theyre made higher by the fact 
she is spending around £300 a month on online gambling websites. This pattern is 
consistent, and Im satisfied that it wouldve been identifiable for Buddy Loans too.
Buddy Loans has said the consolidation provided by this loan would help make this loan 
affordable. Ive considered this, however looking through the statements Im not persuaded 
this is the case. Ultimately Miss O still has several credit commitments, high outgoings 
(increased by gambling), and a significant amount of money borrowed from family. When 
combining this with the fact she had dependents I dont think there was enough income 
remaining each month for her to sustainably meet the repayments. 
So for these Im satisfied had Buddy Loans completed further checks it wouldve seen this 
too, and as such wouldnt have lent. So, it follows that Im not satisfied this loan was 
affordable for Miss O from outset, and as such shouldnt have been lent. 
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in any other way?
Ive not been presented with any information which suggest Buddy Loans acted unfairly in any other way in relation to Miss Os complaint about this loan. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right I require Buddy Loans to do the following:
To add up the total amount of money Miss O received as a result of having being 
given this loan. The repayments Miss O has made should be deducted from this 
amount. 
oIf this results in Miss O having paid more than she received then any 
overpayment should be refunded along with 8% (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
oIf any capital amount remains; then Buddy Loans should attempt to arrange 
an affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss O. 
To remove any adverse information about this loan from Miss O credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to take off tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans must give Miss O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman