DRN-1914090
 
The complaint
Mr M has complained about loans granted to him by PDL Finance Limited trading as
Mr Lender (Mr Lender). He says the loans were unaffordable and that
Mr Lender should have known this as he was borrowing from several other short term 
loan providers at the time.
What happened
Mr Lender agreed four loans for Mr M between February and May 2012. The loans were all 
payday loans with one repayment and ranged in value from £350 to £650. The below table 
sets out some information Mr Lender has provided about these loans (with numbers 
rounded to the nearest pound).
Mr Lender said that during the application process for Mr Ms first loan he opted to make 
an additional interest payment (£53) to extend the loan term, in other words to put off the 
full loan repayment for several weeks. I understand that (as of January 2020) Mr Ms final 
loan hadnt been repaid.
Loan Date TakenDate 
RepaidPrincipal 
(£)Contractual 
repayment 
(£)Original 
term 
(days)
1 09/02/2012 22/03/2012 350 410 11
2 23/03/2012 20/04/2012 400 527 28
3 23/04/2012 18/05/2012 500 657 28
4 18/05/2012 Not repaid 650 852 32
Mr Lender didnt agree that it had been irresponsible to lend to Mr M on any occasion but, 
as a gesture of goodwill, it offered to remove the interest and charges outstanding on 
Mr Ms final loan and come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan for the original capital 
balance. Furthermore, it offered to remove any adverse information on Mr Ms credit file in 
relation to this loan. Mr M didnt accept this offer and brought his complaint to this Service.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ms complaint and recommended that it be upheld in part 
and that Mr Lender honours its offer on loan 4. Mr M didnt accept this recommendation 
and asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman for a review and final decision. 
The complaint came to me to resolve and I issued my provisional decision on 8 May 2020 
explaining why I provisionally found that Mr Lender was irresponsible to have agreed loan 4 
for Mr M and, additionally, loan 3.
Mr M didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr Lender didnt accept my findings and 
pointed out that Id said it didnt provide any evidence of having carried out credit checks 
whereas it had in fact already provided a summary of the credit checks it carried out each 
time Mr M applied for a loan. Ive let Mr Lender know I accept that it had checked Mr Ms 
credit file on each occasion. The lender also provided further summary information gathered 
through these credit checks for me to consider.
This is now my final decision on the matter and, if Mr M accepts this, it will be legally binding 
on the parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As before, I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. 
I want to reassure Mr Lender that I have considered carefully what it said in response to my 
provisional findings. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for it but I am still of the 
view that it was irresponsible to have agreed loans 3 and 4. Ive explained my reasons in my 
provisional decision and, for completeness, will set them out again here.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Ive followed that 
approach here. The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) was the regulator when Mr M borrowed 
from Mr Lender. Guidance issued by the OFT in early 2008 explained that its aim was to 
ensure that an appropriate standard of consumer protection was in place, telling lenders that 
the way you operate any aspect of a business may well be relevant to your fitness to hold a 
consumer credit licence.
Irresponsible lending was included in this guidance as an example of an unfair or improper 
practice and defined as being contrary to the provisions of section 25(2B) of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974, by failing to take reasonable care in making loans or advancing lines of 
credit, including making only limited or no enquiries about consumers income before 
offering loans and failing to take full account of the interests of consumers in doing so.
In early 2010 the OFT published its Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) which set out the 
obligations on lenders before and after agreeing credit.
Paragraph 4.2 of the ILG stated:
Whatever means and sources of information creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought 
being unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more 
than solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in 
question.
Paragraph 4.3 stated:
The OFT regards in a sustainable manner in this context as meaning credit that can be 
repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing problem 
indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within a 
reasonable period of time
out of income and/or available savings, without having to realise security or assets. 
This meant that for all loans Mr Lender needed to check that Mr M could afford to meet his 
repayments in a sustainable manner, in other words being able to meet his repayments out of his normal income without having to go without or borrow further.
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks Mr Lender needed to carry out in 
order to reasonably assess whether Mr M would be able to meet his repayments 
sustainably. But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This
suggests that the same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or 
for the same consumer in all circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to 
the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, 
Id expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender says it asked Mr M for information about his income each time he applied for 
a loan. The lender recorded his monthly income as £2,400 for all loans and explained 
that during the application process it verified Mr Ms income and his employment details.
As Id set out in my provisional decision, Mr Lender hasnt mentioned that it gathered 
information about Mr Ms monthly expenses before agreeing to lend to him. Given the size 
of the loan repayments relative to Mr Ms declared income I think it ought to have at least 
asked Mr M about his expenses each time he applied for a loan to ensure he could meet the 
repayments without difficulty. I also think that as Mr M continued to borrow, it would have 
been proportionate to look into his finances in more detail and by the time he asked for his 
fourth loan I think Mr Lender ought to have verified his financial information. Altogether, I 
cant say that its checks were proportionate on any occasion. 
Mr Lender acknowledged that Mr M extended his first loan during the application 
process and said that this provided him with flexibility and was not a sign of financial 
difficulty. Mr Lender also said that Mr M didnt have difficulty repaying his first three 
loans because he paid them on time.
I can accept that extending a loan isnt automatically a sign of financial difficulty, and in 
this case I dont think it was, given it was Mr Ms first loan and that he opted to build in an 
extension at the point of application. However, I cant agree that just because Mr M made 
his repayments on time means he wasnt struggling to meet them. The regulations 
required Mr Lender to check that Mr M could afford to make his repayments in a 
sustainable manner. Successfully meeting his repayments doesnt automatically mean 
that he managed to do so without difficulty, in other words without borrowing from 
elsewhere or going without. 
Mr M asked for a third loan within days of repaying his second. This was for a larger 
amount again, which committed him to repaying more than a quarter of his income the 
following month. In these circumstances, I think Mr Lender ought to have sought a 
reasonably detailed understanding of Mr Ms expenses, including  anything  outside of his regular expenses that might have impacted on his ability to make this repayment, such as 
outstanding short term loans from other providers. 
As mentioned above, Id said in my provisional decision that Mr Lender hadnt provided any 
evidence of carrying out credit checks or any credit check results to this Service. I now 
accept that Mr Lender did carry out credit checks. It had provided some summary results 
from the checks and in response to my provisional decision, provided some more. I have 
considered all of this when reviewing the matter again. 
The credit file information from Mr Lender didnt show any evidence of county court 
judgements or bankruptcy, but it did show that Mr M had a default in the last year and two in 
the last three. It also showed that hed he was taking out short term loans. I dont think the 
information of itself would have been concerning to Mr Lender but, as Ive explained, given 
the circumstances of the lending, it ought to have looked into Mr Ms finances in more 
depth.
Mr M has provided his bank statements from around this time. To be clear  Im not 
suggesting Mr Lender ought to have done so but I think these are a reasonable approximation 
of the information I think it was likely to have seen. 
The statements show that Mr Ms mortgage cost £539 a month and his identifiable monthly 
living costs and regular commitments alone probably wouldnt have caused concerns to 
Mr Lender, had it asked about them. 
However, its clear that Mr M was continuously borrowing from many other short term 
lenders. After taking out a third loan, he repaid almost £1,500 to six different short term 
lenders and continued to borrow from them. I can also see that he that he spent significant 
amounts each month on what appear to be gambling transactions, sometimes several 
times his income.
I think the scale of Mr Ms reliance on short term lending would likely have come to light 
had Mr Lender looked into his expenditure in more detail when he asked for his third and 
fourth loans. And when he asked for a fourth loan the day he repaid his third, for a higher 
amount yet again, its likely that Mr Lender would have understood the spending patterns 
that lay behind this reliance. I think Mr Lender would have declined to lend to Mr M on 
these occasions and it follows that I find it was irresponsible when it did so. 
Putting things right
I have concluded that Mr Lender was irresponsible to have agreed to loans 3 and 4 for Mr M, 
taken out in April and May 2012 respectively. In order to put things right for him, Mr Lender 
should
a) refund the interest and fees Mr M paid on loan 3; and
b) pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to 
the dates of settlement; and
c) remove any adverse information about loan 3 from Mr Ms credit 
file; and
d) remove any interest and charges outstanding on loan 4; and
e) treat any repayments Mr M made towards loan 4 as repayments towards the capital;
If there is a capital balance outstanding on loan 4 Mr Lender can use the refund 
calculated in a) + b) above to reduce this balance and any remaining refund should be 
paid to Mr M.f) if after applying the refund there is still an outstanding capital balance then Mr 
Lender needs to treat Mr M fairly and sympathetically in this matter. This may mean 
agreeing a repayment plan with him.
g) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit 
file about loan 4 once it has been settled.
If loan 4 had been sold on then Mr Lender needs to buy the debt back before deducting any 
refund. If it doesnt do this, or cant do this, then it needs to work with the debt owner to 
bring about steps d) to g) above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. 
Mr Lender must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
As Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint about PDL Finance Limited trading as
Mr Lender and require it to put things right for him as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman