DRN-3687090
The complaint
Mr F has complained about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) have dealt 
with a claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F had an escape of water in his home. So, he contacted Admiral to make a claim, which 
Admiral accepted. Mr F told Admiral he thought there was a conflict of interest due to Mr Fs 
business. Mr F later complained to Admiral because his claim still hadnt been resolved. He 
was concerned by the delays, communication and suggested settlement for the claim.
Admiral investigated and when it responded to the complaint, agreed there had been delays 
and poor communication. It offered £350 compensation. However, it didnt identify any errors 
in how it had tried to validate the claim and said it needed to send a loss adjuster to view the 
damage and confirm costs. It also said it had asked Mr F for a quote for the kitchen because 
it was bespoke.
Mr F replied to Admiral as he wasnt satisfied with some of the response. When Admiral 
replied, it accepted there had been more communication issues and offered a further £50 
compensation. However, it said it had followed an appropriate process for the kitchen as it 
needed to validate costs.
When Mr F complained to this service, our investigator upheld it in part. He said the cash 
amount offered to settle the claim needed to fully indemnify Mr F. What Admiral had offered 
didnt cover Mr Fs full costs, so Admiral needed to ensure that it did so. However, it was fair 
that Admiral hadnt agreed to replace items such as the kitchen worktops and cupboard 
handles, as there wasnt evidence to show they had been damaged or couldnt be reused. 
He also thought it was fair for Admiral to require evidence before it paid a disturbance 
allowance, electricity costs and VAT. It was also reasonable that Admiral had requested a 
quote for the screed and an invoice for the trace and access work. He also said the £400 
compensation Admiral offered was reasonable in the circumstances.
Both Mr F and Admiral accepted our investigators findings. However, Mr F contacted this 
service again because he said Admiral wasnt responding to him or taking steps to progress 
the claim. Admiral then told this service that it now didnt accept our investigators findings 
because it had offered to complete the work, but Mr F had asked for a cash settlement. Mr F 
contacted this service again and said Admiral had been in touch and told him it didnt agree 
with our investigator and that it had recalculated the cash settlement it was willing to offer, 
which was now for a lower amount.
Admiral then spoke to our investigator. It said it had made a mistake by accepting our 
investigators findings. It said it would be willing to replace the whole kitchen, but at the 
amount it would cost Admiral to do so, not Mr F. Admiral then asked this service to put a 
revised offer to Mr F. It said it would either be willing to complete the repairs itself or, if Mr F 
wanted a cash settlement, an independent surveyor would need to carry out an inspection 
and establish the costs of the repair and would then settle the claim on that basis. It also 
said it was willing to offer an additional £750 compensation. 
Mr F said he wanted a cash settlement. However, he was concerned about the amounts 
offered and said he has provided Admiral with costs he thought were reasonable, but hadnt 
received a reply. Our investigator contacted Admiral to explain Mr Fs position. Admiral didnt 
reply. Following this, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. I will explain why.
Mr F now seems to accept some of the responses from Admiral on aspects of his complaint 
but, for completeness, I will consider each of these issues. Mr F said the worktops should be 
replaced by Admiral. However, I havent seen evidence these were damaged as part of the 
claim. Admiral has said that if the worktop is damaged as part of the worktops removal and 
refitting when the kitchen is being replaced it will consider whether it should replace it at that 
time. I think that is reasonable and that Admiral doesnt need to replace the worktops unless 
it can be shown they are damaged.
Im aware Mr F has also said he specifically wants the kitchen handles to be considered 
again. He has said he had reluctantly agreed with our investigators view on these in order to 
try and get matters resolved sooner. However, he had given this further thought and was 
also now aware of Admiral showing no intention of resolving the claim. So, Ive thought 
about the kitchen handles. I havent seen anything to suggest these were damaged as part 
of the claim. So, I dont think Admiral needs to replace them as part of it. I also havent seen 
anything to show they cant be re-used. So, based on what Ive seen, I dont think Admiral 
needs to replace the handles.
Admiral has also agreed to pay additional electricity costs, a disturbance allowance and 
VAT, subject to Mr F providing suitable evidence each of these costs have been incurred. I 
think that is reasonable. For the disturbance allowance, Admiral has said it will pay £10 per 
person per day, which is in line with the industry standard. It is also normal for an insurer to 
require evidence that VAT has been paid before it will cover those costs. Admiral also asked 
for evidence of the trace and access costs, so it could pay these. Again, I think that was 
reasonable.
Im aware that Admiral initially said it would be able to deal with the screed. However, it later 
decided this was too specialist and said Mr F should provide quotes so he could do the work 
himself. I can understand that Mr F was concerned and frustrated by this. Mr F has since 
provided Admiral with a quote, but has told this service he hasnt heard anything further from 
Admiral. For avoidance of doubt, Admiral must settle the claim for the screed at the cost to 
Mr F, given Admiral has clearly stated to Mr F that it cant do the work itself and therefore 
required Mr F to submit a quote.
The main issue is how the cost of the kitchen should be settled. Ive looked carefully at what 
happened. From what Ive seen, Admiral initially said it could do the work. However, shortly 
after this it agreed to pay a cash settlement, which seemed to be because of a potential 
conflict of interest due to Mr Fs business. Admiral continued to look at how to deal with the 
kitchen and decided that it couldnt be patch repaired and that any work it did couldnt be 
guaranteed. Mr F was asked to provide a quote because Admiral wouldnt be able to carry 
out the repair as the kitchen was too specialist. So, regardless, of any conflict of interest, 
Admiral concluded that Mr F would need to provide a quote for the work as it was unable to 
carry out the work.Some considerable time later, and after our investigator had issued his view, which both 
Admiral and Mr F accepted, Admiral decided it had made a mistake. Admirals position is 
that it would now only be willing to replace the kitchen itself or to pay a cash settlement at 
the amount it would cost Admiral to carry out the work. In the circumstances, I dont think 
that is fair or reasonable. Admiral seems to have changed its position because of a number 
of mistakes it says it made. But, Im not persuaded that this means it should now replace the 
kitchen itself or pay a reduced cash settlement. It carried out a careful investigation at the 
time and concluded it couldnt replace the kitchen. I havent seen anything that clearly shows 
me this position has changed or that it is reasonable, such a long time after it agreed the 
basis on which it would settle the claim, for it now to change that basis. As a result, in my 
view, Admiral needs to pay a cash settlement for the kitchen at the cost to Mr F of replacing 
it. 
Ive also thought about compensation. I have only considered this specifically in relation to 
the complaint points I was considering. Im aware that issues have continued since then, but 
I havent considered those as they werent part of this complaint. Im also aware that Mr F 
has raised another complaint, but that doesnt form part of this decision. Based on what Ive 
seen and the focus of this decision, I think the £400 Admiral offered was reasonable to 
address those issues. I think this fairly addressed the inconvenience caused to Mr F, at that 
time, by Admiral changing its approach on how issues such as the screed would be dealt 
with and the delays and communication issues that formed part of this complaint. Im aware 
that Admiral has since offered more compensation, but this seems, at least in part, to have 
been in response to more recent and ongoing issues, which dont form part of the complaint I 
am considering.
Putting things right
Admiral must pay a cash settlement for the kitchen and the screed. It must also pay £400 
compensation, if it hasnt done so already.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld in part. I 
require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do the following:
For the kitchen, Admiral must pay a cash settlement at the amount it would cost Mr F to 
replace it. 
For the screed, Admiral must pay a cash settlement at the amount it would cost Mr F to 
replace it. 
Pay Mr F £400 compensation, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman