DRN-4188585
The complaint
Mrs D and Mrs M have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold 
them a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs D and Mrs M took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the mortgage in 2005.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs D and Mrs M disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on a 
balance of probabilities  that is, what is considered most likely to have happened given the 
evidence that is available to me, and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mrs D and Mrs M say that the PPI was presented as a condition of the mortgage and that 
effectively they had no option but to agree to it if they wanted the mortgage borrowing to be 
agreed.
I have no doubt that Mrs D and Mrs M have provided their genuine recollection of events, but 
given the passage of time, it wouldnt be surprising if their memory of events has faded 
somewhat.
Bank of Scotland has provided a copy of the PPI declaration form that Mrs D and Mrs M 
signed to confirm they wanted the policy. I do take their point that the paperwork would only 
show their ultimate agreement to buying it and wouldnt show if they argued against it or 
were reluctant to have it. 
However, from what we know of Bank of Scotlands branch sales process at the time, the 
PPI was usually presented as optional. And I havent seen any evidence to persuade me 
that something different happened in this case. Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs D 
and Mrs M have said but, overall, Im unable to conclude that they werent given a choice 
about taking out PPI. I find it more likely than not that they decided to buy it, knowing that 
they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
This was an advised sale, meaning that Bank of Scotland recommended that they should 
buy the policy. In doing so, Bank of Scotland needed to ensure that the policy met their 
needs. And from what I know of their circumstances at the time, the PPI was suitable for 
them.
They would both have received sick pay from their employers. But the policy would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than they would have received 
full pay for.
Mrs D and Mrs M have said that family would have helped financially. But having the policy 
would have meant they wouldnt need to rely on family to pay their mortgage for them.
So I think the policy was suitable for them and that they could have benefitted from it at what 
would have been a difficult time. So, it wasnt wrong of Bank of Scotland to recommend it to 
them.
Bank of Scotland also had to provide sufficient information for them to be able to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for them. I think they must have 
known something about the policy  that it would cover their mortgage repayments if they 
were unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think 
theyd have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it. 
They were sent a letter on 7 March 2005 containing a quote for the policy costs. Whilst this 
is after the time that they agreed to the policy, it is before the policy went live in April 2005. 
So Im satisfied they would have been aware of the cost.
Its possible that Bank of Scotland could have provided more information about the policy, 
such as the things that it didnt cover. But neither Mrs D or Mrs M were affected by any of 
those things. For example, they did not have a pre-existing medical condition that might 
have limited their ability to make a claim.
As I consider that Mrs D and Mrs M had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that more information would have caused them to change their minds about buying it. 
So they are no worse off as a result of anything Bank of Scotland may have done wrong, so 
there is nothing that Bank of Scotland needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mrs M 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman