DRN-4168842
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint about Zurich Assurance Ltd trading as Allied Dunbar Assurance plc arises 
in connection with the Pension Review. Mr B says he wasnt put back in the position that he 
shouldve been. Mr B has also raised issues about whether payments made by what is now 
the DWP (Department of Work and Pensions) because Mr B had contracted out of SERPS 
(State Earnings Related Pension Scheme) were correctly credited to his pension. 
What happened
Mr B took out a personal pension with Allied Dunbar in March 1989. Mr B signed Allied 
Dunbars Personal Pensions App 1 Joint Notice to begin paying minimum contributions. Mr B 
would be opting out of what was then known as SERPS.  
In July 1989 Mr B transferred the value of his deferred benefits in a former employers 
pension scheme into his Allied Dunbar personal pension. The transfer was later reviewed as 
part of the industrywide Pension Review. Zurich conceded that the transfer may not have 
been suitable and offered £27,400 which was the amount the employers scheme had 
calculated as the cost of reinstating Mr Bs total pensionable service (from 1 August 1981 to 
31 October 1988). Zurich sent a cheque for £27,400 to the employers pension scheme on 
20 October 2001 and Mr B was reinstated in that scheme. 
In 2010 Mr Bs personal pension was transferred to a SIPP (self invested personal pension) 
with Hargreaves Lansdown. Zurich sent a cheque for £26,983.84, made up of £5,717.69 non 
protected rights and £21,266.15 protected rights. 
Mr B retired in 2021. There was a shortfall in his state pension which Mr B hadnt been 
expecting. Mr B complained to Zurich in 2022. Zurich issued a final response letter on 11 
January 2023. Zurich said it had investigated Mr Bs concerns that Zurich had failed to 
reinstate Mr B in the state pension and hadnt returned payments made by the DWP from 
1999 to 2010. In summary Zurich said:
In 1989 Mr B opted out of SERPS and payments were instead made by the DWP to 
his personal pension plan. Zurich had no control over the amounts paid by the DWP 
or when. If Mr B was unemployed, self employed or if he joined a company pension 
scheme, no payments would be sent to Zurich. Zurich received the first DWP 
payment on 1 December 1989 and the last payment on 27 May 1999 for the tax year 
1997. Zurich refunded that payment to the DWP on 26 February 2003.
As of 6 April 2012 opting out of the State Second Pension (S2P, formerly SERPS) 
was no longer an option and all customers were automatically reinstated into S2P.
Zurich had reviewed the transfer in and reinstated Mr B in the employers scheme. 
Zurich had explained that the reinstatement was only in relation to the transfer in and 
not the personal or separate DWP payments received outside of that. Zurich had 
informed HMRC at the time of the reinstatement. 
On 11 March 2010 a transfer to Hargreaves Lansdown was completed as instructed, 
including the former protected rights fund value. Zurich did inform HMRC so it knew 
Mr B was no longer invested with Zurich but Zurich hadnt received any payments 
apart from in May 1999 and which was refunded to the DWP. 
Zurich had been unable to identify any errors on Mr Bs plan. The payments Zurich 
received from the DWP were correctly allocated. Zurich didnt receive any request for 
the payments to be returned, aside from the May 1999 payment. The reinstatement 
into the employers scheme was correctly made and in line with the agreement Mr B 
signed.  
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but he didnt uphold the complaint. 
He referred to Zurichs letter of 30 May 2001. It explained that the potential benefits from the 
personal pension as a result of the transfer (from the employers scheme) were likely to be 
less than the value of the benefits that wouldve been available to Mr B, had he remained a 
member of the employers scheme. Zurichs offer was aimed at putting Mr B, as far as 
possible, back in the financial position hed have been in, if he hadnt transferred and the 
best way of doing that was reinstating his benefits in the employers scheme. Mr B had 
confirmed he accepted that offer in full and final settlement of all claims he had against Allied 
Dunbar in connection with the advice given to transfer. 
The investigator said Mr Bs complaint was that Allied Dunbar had promised to put him in the 
position hed be in, had the pension not been mis sold. The transfer had been corrected by 
reinstatement in the employers scheme and the DWP contributions would continue. So 
there was no need to repay the DWP contributions or make up any shortfall. In 2010 when 
the personal pension was transferred to the SIPP, Zurich had confirmed, in its letter of 24 
February 2010 explaining Mr Bs retirement choices, that there was a protected rights 
element of £20,418.37. So Mr B already had the value he was seeking to increase his state 
pension by  it was held within his SIPP. 
The investigator explained the background to the Pension Review and the approach taken 
by the then regulator as to what businesses needed to do to put things right if unsuitable 
advice had been given. Zurich had put things right as part of the Pension Review and in line 
with the regulatory guidance. The current regulator didnt require businesses to revisit 
complaints which had already been considered as part of the Pension Review. 
Mr B was still unhappy. He said hed signed a form saying Allied Dunbar would put him back 
in the position hed be in if he hadnt been mis sold a personal pension and they hadnt done 
so as he was receiving a reduced state pension. He didnt think the Pension Review covered 
his situation. 
The investigator reiterated that the Pension Review was to correct the transfer (from the 
employers scheme) and Mr Bs membership was reinstated. If hed received the full state 
pension that would mean, because of the payments that were made to Zurich/ Allied Dunbar 
and which were then transferred to Hargreaves Lansdown, hed have received the same 
contributions and benefit twice  from the state and his SIPP. 
There were further exchanges. Amongst other things, Mr B said Zurich had confirmed theyd 
never received any DWP payments after the tax year 1996/1997 but HMRC had said 
payments were taken by Zurich until 2010. Mr B supplied a copy of a letter from HMRC in 
support. Mr B also said that Zurich had failed to inform HMRC when Zurich had admitted to 
mis selling the personal pension and which shouldve stopped Mr B as having been recorded 
as having a personal pension. Alternatively, Zurich had informed HMRC about the 
termination of his personal pension and HMRC had failed to record it on their system. Mr B 
suggested Zurich should provide evidence that they told HMRC that they were no longer 
able to accept payments after 1997 so he could take up the matter with HMRC. If Zurich 
didnt inform HMRC then that had cost him eleven qualifying years. 
The investigator said Mr Bs complaint seemed to be different to the one Mr B had asked us 
to look into  that Zurich hadnt put him back in the correct position following the Pension Review. It now seemed the issue was that Zurich hadnt correctly applied the contributions 
HMRC had said were paid. 
About that the investigator said the documents provided were somewhat confusing but 
HMRCs contracted out schedule shows payments from 1988 to 1997. The last former 
protected rights payment had been on 1 June 1999 for £594.43 in respect of the tax year 
1997/1998. That seemed to match Zurichs records and suggested the correct contributions 
had been applied. It wasnt clear why HMRC's letter said that, until the policy was cancelled 
in 2009, payments were made into the personal pension. That didnt seem consistent with 
other information from HMRC. The investigator said hed try to obtain some more information 
but Mr B had been given an answer on the complaint hed made. 
Mr B said he understood why the investigator was saying that Zurich hadnt failed in respect 
of the Pension Review. But Mr B said his government gateway account showed hed made 
50 years of full NI contributions but 22 years were missing from his state pension entitlement 
which Mr B said was due to Allied Dunbar/Zurich mis selling him a personal pension. The tax 
years 1988/1989 to 1996/1997 were accounted for and all sent to Hargreaves Lansdown. 
But that still left him with 13 years of lost contributions which Mr B said wouldnt have been 
the case but for Allied Dunbar/Zurich being involved. Mr B raised a number of queries about 
what wouldve happened at the time. He suggested we should make further enquiries with 
Zurich and HMRC as to what had happened. 
The investigator said we dont have access to Zurich or HMRCs systems. The issues that 
Mr B was referring to had nothing to do with the Pension Review  that had been resolved in 
2001 and was in respect of the transfer only. The investigator said hed ask Zurich for any 
documentation that might assist and if he got anything hed forward it to Mr B. In the 
meantime Mr Bs questions should be directed to HMRC.
 
Mr B didnt agree hed raised different issues  he said it had always been about the fact that 
he hadnt been put back into the financial position hed have been in before Allied 
Dunbars/Zurichs involvement. He said hed tried to get information from Zurich before which 
would enable him to go back to HMRC. But it hadnt been forthcoming. And without such 
further evidence HMRC would continue to blame Zurich so it was a Catch 22 situation. 
In response to the investigators request, Zurich provided information which showed that no 
payments had been received  and so hadnt been applied to Mr Bs personal pension  
after 1997. Reason codes had been provided when payments were not received from 
HMRC. For example, reason code 1 was that earnings hadnt been recorded by the DWP 
and reason code 3 was the employment didnt qualify for payment of contributions. In 1992 
and 1998 reason code 1 had been applied to Mr Bs account and in 1999 reason code 3 was 
recorded. So in 1998 it seemed earnings hadnt been recorded by the DWP and in 1999 Mr 
Bs employment didnt qualify for payment of contributions. From the file Zurich said Mr B 
had been employed between 1989 and 1997 in car sales and in 1999 hed said he was 
unemployed. Zurich didnt know what Mr Bs occupation in 1998. Zurich supplied copies of 
screen prints in support.  
The investigator shared with Mr B what Zurich had said (although copies of the internal 
screen prints couldnt be provided). The investigator said that HMRC's investigation had 
determined the law had been applied correctly and detailed the reasons why in its complaint 
response letter to Mr B. We dont have jurisdiction over HMRC and, from what the 
investigator had seen, Zurich hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr B asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. He reiterated that Zurich had 
said in its offer that he wouldnt suffer any financial loss due to Allied Dunbar/Zurichs mis 
selling and on that basis hed signed the agreement. But he was suffering a financial loss due to their mis selling and that contravened the agreement reached. Mr B said there was 
still no evidence that Zurich had informed HMRC the pension had been mis sold so 
terminating the need for Zurich to reclaim his NI payments. It was only when that evidence 
was to hand that Zurich could be exonerated as HMRC would then be at fault having failed 
to take the necessary action required.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with what the investigator said and the reasons he gave as to why 
he was unable to uphold the complaint. 
As I understand it, Mr Bs complaint was that hed believed that, under the Pension Review, 
hed be put back in the position hed be in if thered been no involvement by Allied 
Dunbar/Zurich in his pension arrangements. Mr B says he accepted the offer made on the 
basis he wouldnt suffer any financial loss due to Allied Dunbars/Zurichs mis selling. 
I can only echo what the investigator said about that and, in particular, that Zurichs offer 
only related to the transfer into the Allied Dunbar personal pension of the deferred benefits 
Mr B had accrued as a member of an employers pension scheme between 1 August 1981 
and 31 October 1988. Mr Bs membership of that scheme predated the setting up of his 
pension plan with Allied Dunbar which wasnt established until March 1989. In July 1989, a 
few months after Mr Bs policy with Allied Dunbar had been set up, the transfer of Mr Bs 
deferred benefits into the Allied Dunbar plan took place. 
The transfer  and just the transfer into the personal pension and not the sale of the 
personal pension itself - was reviewed as part of the Pension Review. Zurich accepted that 
the transfer may have been unsuitable  that is, it wouldve probably been better for Mr B to 
have remained as a member of his employers scheme. So Zurich offered to reinstate Mr B 
in the employers scheme. Thats as far as things went. Any acceptance of mis selling was 
confined to the transfer. 
And what Mr B signed in terms of putting things right only related to the transfer and not to 
the sale of the Allied Dunbar personal pension itself. All that happened was that the units in 
the Allied Dunbar policy which the transfer value paid by employers scheme had bought 
were cancelled and Zurich paid £27,400 to the former employers scheme to reinstate Mr Bs 
membership. So it was as if the transfer hadnt happened. 
Mr B suggests Zurich should provide evidence that they told HMRC that they were no longer 
able to accept payments after 1997. But I dont think that was the case. Zurich informed 
HMRC that Mr Bs membership of his former employers scheme had been reinstated. I think 
thats all Zurich needed to do. The personal pension remained in force. Mr B remained 
contracted out of SERPS. Zurich didnt need to return any other payments it had received 
and the plan was still able to accept any payments from DWP that Zurich received. 
I think Zurich also told Mr B what would happen. Zurichs letter of 20 October 2001 
confirmed the reinstatement and that Zurich had cancelled the units in Mr Bs personal 
pension that related to the reinstatement, adding that the units relating to Mr Bs regular 
contributions and the DSS receipts would remain invested in the personal pension, 
according to Mr Bs current fund selection and the indexed policy charges would continue to 
be deducted. So it wasnt the case that Mr B was told that the Allied Dunbar/Zurich personal 
pension was in effect cancelled. Moving on to look at wider issues beyond the Pension Review, I think Mr B may be inferring 
that the Allied Dunbar personal pension was mis sold in 1989. I dont think the suitability of 
the sale of the personal pension has ever been considered. As Ive explained, the transfer of 
Mr Bs deferred benefits in his employers scheme was reviewed under the Pension Review. 
That review didnt extend to the sale of the Allied Dunbar personal pension itself. I dont want 
to try to decide a complaint that hasnt been made but, in broad terms, contracting out of 
SERPS in the 1980s and early 1990s wasnt unusual. Assumed growth and annuity rates at 
the time made it seem likely that those who contracted out would be better off. So 
complaints about contracting out are often not upheld. 
Mr B is unhappy that hes getting a reduced state pension. Ive seen that hes complained to 
HMRC  and I think HMRC is the appropriate body to deal with any complaints or queries 
about state pension entitlement  but HMRC maintains that Mr Bs state pension and, in 
particular, the contracted out deduction (COD) thats been applied, has been calculated 
correctly. 
What happened was that because Mr B contracted out of SERPS some of his NI 
contributions were redirected to his Allied Dunbar/Zurich personal pension. The redirection 
of NI contributions is reflected in Mr Bs state pension by the COD. HMRC looks at what the 
consumers entitlement to SERPS wouldve been, if they hadnt contacted out. A COD is 
then applied for each period when the consumer was contracted out through an employers 
pension scheme or a personal pension plan.  
I note HMRCs letter to Mr B dated 17 June 2022. It explained that hed been a member of 
an employers contracted out pension scheme between 6 April 1981 and 31 October 1988. 
He hadnt been a member of SERPS and hed been paying lower contracted out NI 
contributions. Hed earned a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) which was part of the 
pension he should receive from the employers scheme. The GMP is £65.33 pw.
 
The letter also said that Mr B had been a member of a personal pension with Zurich and that 
the policy had been taken out with effect from 6 April 1988. It went on to say: Until the policy 
was cancelled on 5 April 2009, each time full rate Class 1 National Insurance contributions 
were received on your National Insurance account, the Inland Revenue made annual 
payments to your Personal Pension scheme of minimum contributions based on your 
earnings. The letter said that, during that period, Mr B hadnt been a member of SERPS. 
That meant a further COD of £21.72 had been applied to his state pension. So the total COD 
was £87.05.
I can understand why Mr B may point to the sentence Ive highlighted as indicating that 
payments were made to Zurich each year up to 2009. But the letter did refer to a full list of 
minimum contribution payments having been provided. Ive seen that the letter about that 
included a table headed Post 88 Contracted-Out Deduction Calculation  Period 6/4/88 to 
5/4/09  the Zurich scheme. The entries in the table below show Contracted-Out earnings 
only for the tax years 1988/1989 to 1996/1997. As it seems, from the heading, that the 
period up to April 2009 is covered, that would suggest payments were only in fact made to 
Zurich up to 1996/1997. 
Thats consistent with what Zurich says  that it received no further payments after the tax 
year 1996/1997. And it has provided evidence in support  screen shots and records of 
reason codes why payments for some years werent received. I havent seen reason codes 
for the period entire period Mr B is questioning  1998 to 2010. But the fact remains that 
Zurich says it didnt get any payments after 1996/1997 and I dont think the information from 
HMRC suggests differently. The upshot is that although Mr B has said some 22 years of his NI contributions are missing, 
it seems he accepts that the tax years 1988/1989 to 1996/1997 are accounted for and were 
included in the transfer value sent to Hargreaves Lansdown in 2010. Although that still 
leaves the period  some 13 years  from 1997 to 2010, from what Ive seen Zurich didnt 
get any payments during that period. If Mr B doesnt agree hell need to go back to HMRC to 
query what it has said. If HMRC provides further information which suggests that Zurich 
mightve been at fault then Mr B can take that up with Zurich. But as matters stand and from 
what Ive seen, I dont think Zurich is at fault. 
I know Mr B is likely to remain unhappy but I hope Ive been able to explain why I dont think 
Zurich has done anything wrong, either in terms of the steps taken in relation to the Pension 
Review or in accounting for payments received from DWP. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman