DRN-3814871
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy with the way in which AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim she made 
under her home insurance policy. Specifically, she is concerned that it initially declined her 
claim. And then when AXA did accept it, Ms T considers the settlement offer provided to her 
to be unreasonable.
What happened
Ms T has explained that in February 2022, the garden wall at her property blew down. The 
section of wall that had come down was around 20 meters long. And left her garden 
insecure. In addition to this, the rubble had damaged plants in the flower beds, as well as 
some garden furniture.
Because of the damage, Ms T made a claim under her home insurance policy. She says that 
when she initially reported the claim, she was promised a call back to discuss the matter. But 
this didnt happen. So, she chased for a response from AXA a couple of days later. 
At that point, Ms T said AXA declined her claim over the phone. Ms T said AXA accepted 
there were storm conditions at her property, when the wall came down. But said that a wall 
in a good state of repair shouldnt have fallen down as it did. So, it felt the cause of the 
damage was a maintenance problem with the wall  rather than a storm. And as the policy 
didnt cover maintenance, it wasnt something AXA could take any action on.
Ms T didnt consider this to be fair and raised her concerns about this with AXA. It 
considered the matter and agreed that it had been too quick to make a decision on the claim. 
AXA asked Ms T to provide an independent report on the wall, as well as photographs of it. It 
said it would then consider the claim further.
Ms T did as she was asked and supplied information to AXA. AXA then appointed a loss 
adjuster to visit Ms Ts home, and further validate the loss. 
This loss adjuster noted the wall Ms T was claiming for, was considered as an outbuilding 
within the definitions of her policy. And that the sum insured for outbuildings was £7,500. It 
noted this meant Ms T was significantly underinsured  because the wall, which would cost 
around £25,000 to rebuild, alongside other things that came under the definition of 
outbuildings, were worth £73,568.
AXA said that Ms Ts policy made it clear that if a policyholder was underinsured, any claim 
settlement would be reduced, in proportion with how underinsured the policyholder was. In 
this case, AXA said Ms T was 89.81% underinsured, so it would only pay 10.19% of the cost 
of rebuilding the wall. As the wall would cost £24,650, the proportionate settlement would 
therefore be £2,511.83.
AXA agreed to also settle £499 for the outdoor sofa and £855.44 for the plants. Which Ms T 
has confirmed she is happy with. So, in total, AXA agreed to pay £3,616,27  after deduction 
of the £250 excess on the policy.
Ms T was unhappy with the settlement for the wall. She said she had not been told that the 
wall at her property would be considered as an outbuilding. She said shed relied on AXAs 
expert opinion when taking out her policy. And was insured for £1,000,000 for buildings. And 
so, she didnt consider AXA had acted fairly here.
Ms T raised her concerns in respect of this. But AXA maintained its position. So, Ms T 
referred her complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and felt it should be upheld. Our investigator 
noted that Ms Ts policy documents had not been clear. They said they could see Ms Ts 
policy documents, sent to her for the policy year, noted outbuildings were insured for £7,500. 
But that this didnt explain the garden wall would be considered an outbuilding. Instead, Ms T 
would have had to go looking through her policy booklet to establish this. As this wasnt 
clear, the investigator didnt think it was fair of AXA to rely on this, to reduce the settlement 
for the wall as it had. So, they recommended that AXA reconsider Ms Ts claim, in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, and without applying limits in respect of the 
outbuilding limit.
Our investigator also recommended £100 compensation be provided to Ms T, for the trouble 
and upset shed experienced.
Ms T agreed with our investigators opinion. AXA didnt. AXA considers that the wall being 
an outbuilding was made clear when Ms T took out the policy in 2020. So, Ms T should have 
been aware of this  and the outbuildings limit, from the sales process  as well as from her 
policy documentation. 
But it contacted Ms T directly and raised a payment for £150 compensation. 
As AXA didnt agree with the outcome overall, this complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether AXA 
acted in line with these requirements, when dealing with Ms Ts claim. And I dont think it did.
Ive reviewed Ms Ts policy documentation. And I can see she has cover for instances of 
storm damage. Ms T made a claim under her policy for this  and its my understanding that 
neither party dispute there were storm conditions at the time of Ms Ts loss. Ms T has said 
that in light of this, it was unfair of AXA to decline her claim on the phone initially. And AXA 
has agreed it declined Ms Ts claim too early  not having had enough evidence in order to 
fairly assess the claim. As neither party is in dispute to as this, I havent had to consider this 
any further  other than whether AXA have fairly recognised the trouble and upset this 
caused.
But what I have needed to consider, is whether AXA acted fairly in its actions, after it 
accepted the claim. AXA offered settlement for the sofa and plants  which arent in dispute 
now. And so, I havent considered these. But Ms T says the settlement offered for the wall 
was unfair.Based on the information Ive seen from the parties  I agree that the settlement AXA has 
offered for the wall is unfair. AXA say Ms T was underinsured  and so it is able to 
proportionally reduce the settlement amount, taking this into account. But I dont think thats 
fair in this situation.
Ms Ts insurance policy was a renewal. So, she was sent policy documents to review, at this 
point. Ive seen these policy documents. 
The policy schedule sent to Ms T included a box, with the heading cover you have chosen. 
It lists buildings as selected, for a sum insured of £1,000,000. And cover for outbuildings 
being in place, with a sum insured of £7,500.
Nowhere on this document, did it explain what sum insured meant, and that the figures 
selected needing to be sufficient to rebuild the outbuildings as new. It just suggested this 
was chosen cover. So, I dont think Ms T would have been clear AXA needed an accurate 
assessment of what it would cost Ms T to rebuild all outbuildings, including the wall, as new. 
And there wasnt sufficient information on the document, to note that the wall would also be 
included in the outbuildings. I dont think its unreasonable that Ms T wouldnt consider a wall 
to be considered an outbuilding. This doesnt seem usual, or in line with the ordinary 
meaning of the word. Given AXAs specific and unusual definition of an outbuilding, I think 
this should have been specifically brought to Ms Ts attention, as well as the above 
information about the rebuild cost being clear at renewal. And as it wasnt  I dont think its 
fair for AXA to rely on the averaging clause within the policy, or the outbuildings policy limit, 
when dealing with Ms Ts claim for the wall.
AXA has said the definition of outbuilding and a diagram showing this, is within the policy 
booklet Ms T received. And I do note that was the case. But I dont think its enough for AXA 
to refer Ms T to the policy booklet, and for her to actively look for this. Given the unusual 
nature of the definition, I think it should have been brought to her attention more specifically.
AXA has mentioned the sale of Ms Ts policy in 2020. And it has referred to screen shots 
from the aggregator site Ms T purchased her initial policy through. These screenshots 
include information on what Ms T would have seen in reference to insurance for 
outbuildings. But this information hasnt altered my decision on this complaint. Ms Ts policy 
renewed since that point. So, Ms T entered into a new contract for the policy year 
concerned. And as detailed above, I dont think the relevant information about outbuildings, 
and what Ms T needed to consider in terms of the sum insured for them, was made clear. 
So, whilst I accept the policy terms allow AXA to reduce the claim settlement in instances of 
underinsurance, Im not satisfied thats fair and reasonable here  given what Ive said 
above. So, I find that AXA should deal with Ms Ts claim, in light of the remaining terms of 
the policy. And it mustnt apply the underperformance provisions, or outbuildings limit to any 
settlement provided for the wall, when doing so. 
Ive also considered the trouble and upset the above caused. Ms Ts claim was originally 
declined, without sufficient information from AXA to do so. And I can appreciate this would 
have been distressing for Ms T  given a large part of the wall in her property was no longer 
there, and meaning the property wasnt completely secure. I also consider that telling Ms T 
she was underinsured and would receive £2,511.83 in settlement of the wall  leaving a 
large surplus, would have been troubling and upsetting  Ms T has said she doesnt have 
the funds herself to put the wall right.With the above in mind, I think its fair for AXA to pay Ms T compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused to her. Our investigator recommended this be £100. But AXA has since 
increased this amount to £150. And its my understanding that it has already raised this 
payment to Ms T. Im satisfied this compensation is fair and reasonable. I think it sufficiently 
recognises the above trouble and upset described. So, if the £150 hasnt been provided to 
Ms T as yet, AXA should provide this to her.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I consider AXA Insurance 
UK Plc, should deal with Ms Ts claim, in light of the remaining terms of the policy. It must 
not apply the underinsurance provisions or outbuildings limit to any settlement provided for 
the wall when doing so. 
It appears AXA has already paid Ms T £150 compensation - £50 over what our investigators 
outcome recommended. But I think £150 compensation as AXA discussed with Ms T is fair. 
So, if it hasnt already paid this, it should do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman