DRN-2285468
The complaint
Mr R, on behalf of M, complains that U K Insurance Limited (trading as NIG Insurance) 
unfairly declined the claim it made under a commercial insurance policy following losses 
suffered as a result of the impact of Covid-19.
What happened
M has the benefit of a business insurance policy underwritten by U K Insurance Limited. The 
policy is an NIG Insurance branded policy but in this decision, for the sake of simplicity, I 
shall just refer to UKI.
Mr R made a claim on that policy to cover Ms losses arising out of the closure of M in late 
March 2020 due to the national government-imposed lockdown intended to control the 
spread of Covid-19. UKI declined the claim, saying no cover was provided by the policy in 
the circumstances. 
UKI referred to two areas of cover within the policy that relate to claims for business 
interruption; cover for Public Emergency and for Disease. UKI said that, under the first area 
of cover above, claims resulting from infectious or contagious disease were specifically 
excluded. In relation to the second of these areas of cover, UKI said that only claims relating 
to certain diseases listed in the policy were covered and that Covid-19 was not one of the 
listed diseases. 
Mr R complained about this decision. And when UKI did not alter its decision to decline Ms 
claim, he brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator did not consider the 
complaint should be upheld though. He thought UKI had fairly applied the terms of the policy 
to the circumstances of the claim. As Mr R remained unsatisfied, this complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on M. But for the 
same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
The starting point is to consider the specific policy M took out and what situations the 
insurance it provides responds to. As such Ive considered every aspect of the policy M 
holds with UKI to determine whether there are any sections that would require UKI to meet 
the claim M is making. Having done so, I dont think there are. Our investigator did comment 
on some of the other terms in the policy. However, whilst I have considered these other 
terms, I have limited discussion in this decision to the two areas of cover mentioned above.
Public Emergency
This part of the Business Interruption section of the policy says, in part:
Any cover for loss in respect of Gross Profit or Gross Revenue, as insured by this 
Section, is extended to include
J Public Emergency
Loss resulting from interruption to or interference with the Business at the 
Premises in consequence of the actions or advice of a competent Public 
Authority, due to an emergency likely to endanger life or property, in the 
vicinity of the Premises, which commencing during the Period of Insurance, 
prevents or hinders the use of or access to the Premises, excluding:...
e infectious or contagious disease
This means cover is provided for situations where, due to an emergency which is likely to 
endanger life or property, a public authority prevents or hinders the use of or access to an 
insureds property.
However, this cover is limited by a number of exclusions. The exclusion listed under e 
above was for infectious or contagious disease. I consider this means any prevention or 
hinderance of the use of or access to Ms premises, which was in consequence of an 
infectious or contagious disease, would not be covered by this part of the policy. 
Covid-19 is an infectious disease. And the restrictions imposed from March 2020 were 
intended to control the spread of, and so as a result of, this infectious disease. 
So, whilst Ms policy does provide some cover for loss resulting from a public emergency, 
the impact on Ms business from March 2020 is not covered by this section because the 
impact was as a result of an infectious disease, a circumstance specifically excluded. 
Disease
Mr R has focussed his argument on whether it is fair that UKI has declined the claim on the 
basis that Covid-19, which had not been identified at the time the policy was drafted, is not 
included in a list of specified diseases. I do appreciate this point. It would not have been 
possible for UKI to specifically include Covid-19 on this list, when that disease had not yet 
been identified. However, I must also take into account the way this policy has been drafted.
The type of cover M is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in additional circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. 
Significantly, where cover is provided for losses resulting from the incidence of a disease, 
some policies cover all notifiable diseases, whereas others only provide cover in relation to 
a specific list. 
The Health Protection (Notification) Regulations 2010 require a doctor, etc. to notify the 
relevant local authority if a patient is suspected of suffering from a notifiable disease. The 
list of notifiable diseases in these regulations is updated as new diseases are identified or 
considered a public health risk, and now includes Covid-19. 
UKI specified a list of diseases that cover related to. This part of the policy has been drafted 
to say:Any cover for loss in respect of Gross Profit or Gross Revenue, as insured by this 
Section, is extended to include
L Disease
Loss resulting from interruption of or interference with the Business at the 
Premises in consequence of
b the occurrence of the following diseases: 
Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, 
Cholera, Diphtheria, Dysentery, Legionellosis, Legionnaires Disease, 
Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal Infection, 
Mumps, Ophthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Bubonic 
Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, 
Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or 
Yellow Fever, at the Premises
This list was also not the entire list of notifiable diseases as it existed at the time of drafting. 
It did not, for example, include Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which was an 
identified notifiable disease at the time. The list also included some diseases that are not 
defined as notifiable diseases, such as Chickenpox. 
UKI defined a finite list of specific diseases it was providing cover for under the policy. I dont 
think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all illnesses that fall outside 
of the defined list set out above.
Mr R has said that it was not clear to him that the policy would not cover the impact of new 
viruses. But, as well as only covering some of the notifiable diseases, there is nothing in the 
policy wording (which there could have been if that was what UKI wanted to cover) which 
suggests that the policy was intended to cover new diseases generally, or new diseases 
added to the notifiable diseases list from time to time. 
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover some of the known notifiable diseases at the 
point the policy was taken out. And I dont think it can fairly and reasonably be read in a 
different way.
Ms claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of the policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by Covid-19, I am satisfied UKIs decision to decline the claim was in line 
with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means UKI should have met Ms claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for Mr R but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why Ms policy doesnt 
offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms complaint against U K Insurance Limited 
(trading as NIG Insurance).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman