DRN-3091567
The complaint
Mr D complains that a car he took on hire purchase from MotoNovo Finance Limited was not 
of satisfactory quality. He says he should be able to reject it.  
What happened
In July 2020 Mr D entered into a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo. The car which 
was the subject of the agreement was around eight years old with a mileage of 80,000. It 
cost just over £5,000.
In or around October 2020 Mr D complained that, because of a leak, the car interior was 
damp. It was returned to the dealer, which carried out repairs. Mr D says however that the 
repairs were not successful and that the problem persisted. The car was returned in March 
2021 so that a further attempt at repairs could be made.
The dealership told Mr D that it was unable to rectify the fault and that it was returning the 
car to the manufacturer  which would be in a better position to carry out the work needed. 
The dealership and MotoNovo say that the repairs were successfully completed at the end of 
April 2021. Mr D on the other hand says that he did not agree to the repairs and, since they 
were not successful, he is entitled to reject the car.
Mr D referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He agreed with Mr D that he had not consented to further repair attempts and 
that he was therefore entitled to reject the car and indeed had done so. He recommended 
that MotoNovo end the agreement, return all payments made from the end of April 2021, 
return Mr Ds part exchange contribution of £11,500 (most of which had been used to repay 
existing finance) and pay Mr D £250 in recognition of the distress he had suffered and the 
inconvenience to which he had been put. He also recommended that interest at 8% a year 
be added to the refunds.
MotoNovo did not agree to the investigators proposals. It said that Mr D had agreed to the 
repairs completed in April 2021 and that they had been successful. He was not therefore 
entitled to reject the car.
I considered the case and, because I was minded to reach a different view from that reached 
by the investigator, issued a provisional decision. In that decision I said that, as far as I was 
aware, the car had been repaired successfully. Mr D had, I said, consented to those repairs. 
I did not accept Mr Ds argument that, because the dealership had had to return the car to 
the manufacturer, its second attempt at repairs had been unsuccessful. I did however note 
that the repairs had taken longer than expected. Even though Mr D had been provided with a 
courtesy car, I thought that a payment of £250 in recognition of the inconvenience to which 
Mr D had been put was appropriate in the circumstances. 
Mr D responded to my provisional decision by saying that he had not agreed to the final 
attempt to repair the car. He had received a call from the dealership to say that the repair 
had been successful. He received a further call when he was on his way to collect the car to 
say that the car was in fact still damp and that it was being returned to the manufacturer. He 
had not agreed to that and was in fact already in discussions with the dealership about a 
replacement vehicle. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In many cases, a supplier of goods which are not of satisfactory quality can attempt to repair 
them. If that attempt is not successful, the customer can return the goods. It is not in dispute 
that the first repair attempt was not successful or that Mr D allowed MotoNovo, through the 
dealership, a second chance to effect a repair. 
Mr D says however that the second repair was not successful and that, by sending the car to 
the manufacturer, the dealership was facilitating a third repair attempt. He had not consented 
to that and, since the second repair had not been successful, he was entitled to reject the 
car. He has said too that the car was returned in March 2021 so he and the dealership could 
agree on handing it back, not for repairs.  
First, I think that Mr D did agree to a second attempt at repairs in March 2021. That is 
consistent with being provided with a courtesy car and with his statement that he was going 
to collect it when he was told that it was not in fact ready for collection.  
I accept that the dealership told Mr D the repairs had been completed successfully but, 
before he had had a chance to collect the car, carried out a further inspection and concluded 
that further work was needed. I said in my provisional decision that sending the car to the 
manufacturer for further work was not a separate attempt at a repair; it was part of the 
second repair attempt, just as referring the matter to any other specialist would be. 
I do not believe that the position is different because the dealership told Mr D the car had 
been repaired but then reviewed what had been done and decided further work was needed. 
Once it was agreed that the dealership should have a second attempt at repairs, it was 
reasonable to allow the dealership to complete them. That included sending the car to the 
manufacturer if necessary. And I dont believe the position changed because the dealership 
called Mr D to say the repairs were complete but then changed its mind. By the time the car 
was returned to Mr D, the repairs had been done. 
As Mr D has said, the dealership (and MotoNovo) knew by this point that he wanted to reject 
the car. But he could not do so unless the repair attempt had been unsuccessful or 
MotoNovo agreed. The repairs were ongoing  although they were taking longer than 
expected. Repairs must generally be carried out within a reasonable time; if they are not, a 
consumer may be able to reject the goods. Whilst the repairs here took longer than 
expected, I dont believe I can fairly say that they took an unreasonable length of time such 
that it would be fair to allow Mr D to tell the dealership to stop them and reject the car  
especially as he had been provided with a courtesy car in the meantime. In my view, the 
fairer resolution is to require MotoNovo to make a payment in recognition of the 
inconvenience resulting from the delay.     
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that MotoNovo Finance Limited should pay Mr D £250 
in full and final settlement of his complaint. I do not require it to do anything further.     
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021. Mike Ingram
Ombudsman