DRN-2541425
The complaint
Mr S is complaining about the value Ageas Insurance Limited has placed on his car after he 
made a claim on his car insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr Ss car was stolen so he contacted Ageas to claim on his car insurance 
policy. Ageas said it would settle the claim by paying him the cars market value less his 
excess. And it valued the car at £6,785. Mr S didnt accept this valuation as he said hed 
paid £8,680 for the car four weeks before the theft. Ageas still thought its valuation was fair, 
so Mr S referred his complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. And I said the following: 
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We 
look at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Mr Ss policy, Ageas has to pay him the market value of the car, 
less his excess. 
The market value is defined as the cost of replacing the car with one of a similar age, type, 
mileage and condition, immediately before the loss or damage happened. 
Ageas has valued Mr Ss car at £6,785. Its said its valued this by reviewing the main 
industry valuation guides. Mr S doesnt think this valuation is fair because he paid £8,680 for 
the car four weeks before the theft. He also said he doesnt think Ageass valuation takes 
into account the fact the car also came with upgraded alloy wheels and a satellite navigation 
system. 
Its standard practice for the industry to use valuation guides to work out the estimated 
market value of a car. And its not unreasonable that it does so. The valuation the guides 
give are generally based on the advertised prices of similar cars with similar age and 
mileage for sale at the time of loss. The guides also give an option to adjust the cars value 
to take into account any optional extras in the car. 
Ive looked at the guides and, after taking into account the optional extras, they give a range 
of between £7,400 and £7,800. The guides show that the optional extras on the car do have 
an impact on the cars market value. So Ive also thought about the fact Mr S paid £8,680 for 
the car four weeks prior to the theft. Mr S has also provided his own valuation estimate 
which estimated the valuation to be around £8,363. So Ive taken this into account too. 
One of the valuation guides give an option to review similar cars for sale at the time of loss. 
Ive considered this and this shows that cars of the same age, mileage and specification had 
a range of £8,000 to £8,750. This is also supported by the amount Mr S paid for the car four 
weeks before the sale. While I would generally consider using the valuation guides as a fair 
way of valuing a car, I think it has produced an unfair situation in this case as Im inclined to 
agree with Mr S that he cant replace the car with another of the same specification for the 
current valuation. So I dont think Ageass market value estimation is a fair reflection of the 
cost of replacing the car with one of a similar age, type, mileage and condition, immediately 
before the loss or damage happened. 
I think, in the very specific circumstances of this complaint, I think the fairest way to value 
this car is to use the valuation given by the selling dealership  i.e. £8,363  as I think this is 
more in line with the actual cost of replacing the car. So I intend to say Ageas should 
increase its valuation to £8,363. I also intend to say it should pay 8% simple interest on this 
increase from the date of loss until Ageas pays the increase.  
Ageas responded to accept my provisional decision. Mr S responded to say he still doesnt 
understand why Ageas valued the car so far off the contracted insured value. He said the car 
was bought from inheritance his wife received when theyd sadly lost her mother a few 
months before this. He said they feel that the under valuation and the amount of time that 
has passed has been far more stressful than the actual theft.
He said he bought a temporary replacement car at a cost of £600 to enable him to get to 
work. He said he had that car for around eight months before it failed its MOT so he had to 
sell it at a loss of around £400 and he had to buy a second temporary car. He estimates he 
will lose around £200 when he sells this car to replace the original car.
Given this, he feels further compensation is warranted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Mr Ss additional points into account but Ive come to the same conclusion as I did 
in my provisional decision.
I can understand why Mr S is unhappy Ageas undervalued his car. Ageas followed standard 
industry practice in valuing the car in the way it did and it wasnt unreasonable it did so. In 
the vast majority of situations, this produces a fair outcome, but in the very specific 
circumstances of this case I think it produced an unfair outcome. So I dont think Ageas 
acted wholly unreasonably in this case.
I appreciate Mr S says the temporary cars have lost value. But cars will generally lose value 
so the replacement car would have depreciated too. And Im not persuaded the temporary 
cars will have lost more in value than any replacement car. I think this is a loss he would 
always have incurred. So I dont think Ageas has to compensate for this.
Mr S has also said hes had to tax and insure the temporary cars. But he would have had to 
tax and insure a replacement car too. So I dont think this is a loss hes incurred as a direct 
result of anything Ageas did wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require Ageas Insurance Limited to increase its valuation to £8,363. I also require it should 
pay 8% simple interest on this increase from the date of loss until Ageas pays the increase. 
If Ageas thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman