DRN-4117305
The complaint
Mr R complains on behalf of S, a limited company, about the way Covea Insurance plc has
dealt with a claim made under S buildings insurance policy.
What happened
S owns a block of flats. In 2018, a nearby retaining wall collapsed into the block, 
causing damage to it.
After a complaint was referred to this Service, Covea was required to accept the 
claim in full.
The wall was rebuilt and repairs were carried out to the damaged flats. Mr R was 
concerned the collapse may have caused structural damage to the block. After 
another complaint was referred to this Service, Covea was required to fund an 
investigation into the structure of the building.
A dispute arose about what investigations should be carried out, by whom and in 
what order. Ultimately, Covea agreed to pay for a structural engineer, P, who had 
been chosen by Mr R, to carry out a structural inspection. And Mr R agreed for a 
surveyor of Coveas choosing, G, to carry out a distortion survey.
Mr R complained about the time it had taken to reach this stage and the way Covea 
had communicated during that time.
In its complaint response, Covea accepted it hadnt answered all the questions raised 
by Mr R previously. It offered to do so if he still wanted it to. It said P wasnt 
independent, which is why it had suggested G provide additional input. The 
alternative would have been to appoint a surveyor other than P or G.
P carried out a structural survey. In summary, it didnt identify any structural 
problems. Because of this, I understand G didnt carry out the distortion survey.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said Covea had 
been willing to pay for Ps survey and it wasnt unreasonable to appoint G as well.
Mr R didnt think this was a fair outcome, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Previous complaints have been considered by this Service about this claim. The 
scope of this current complaint is limited to matters associated with the investigation 
into the structure of the building, after a previous Final Decision in January 2022.
During our investigation, Mr R has mentioned concerns with the premiums charged 
by Covea, particularly after the 2022 renewal. Hes entitled to raise a complaint about 
that with Covea if he wishes. But its outside the scope of this complaint.
By the time of Coveas complaint response, the core issue was resolved. P provided 
its structural survey and I understand thats helped both parties to consider the 
matter of the structure of the building to be resolved. All that leaves for me to 
consider is whether Covea acted fairly and reasonably when handling this matter.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied it did and I wont be requiring it to do 
anything further. Ill explain why.
In February 2022, Covea said it wanted to appoint G to carry out a distortion survey. 
Mr R suggested appointing P to carry out a structural survey. Covea agreed to that 
and said it would reimburse reasonable costs incurred  but it also wanted Mr R to 
agree to G carrying out the distortion survey. Mr R asked Covea to confirm its 
agreement to Ps specific costs before he committed to paying them.
There followed extensive discussions between the parties and an agreement wasnt 
reached until June 2022. At that time, Mr R agreed for G to carry out the distortion 
survey and Covea agreed to pay Ps specific costs.
I wont go into all of the discussions in detail. Ill focus on the key sticking point, which 
in my view was the role of G  namely, the scope and purpose of the distortion 
survey, whether it should be carried out before or after Ps structural survey, who 
would review the results of the survey, and whether appointing G was in line with a 
previous Final Decision.
Overall, from Mr Rs perspective, the involvement of G was unnecessary and wasnt 
specified in the previous Final Decision. So he didnt agree to it. And he wanted 
Coveas assurance it would pay Ps specific cost before committing to it.
And from Coveas perspective, it promptly agreed in principle to pay for P. It thought 
the involvement of G would provide objective information about any potential 
distortion to the structure of the building and was prepared to pay for that too. It 
wanted Mr R to agree to Gs involvement before committing to pay Ps specific cost 
as it thought the distortion survey results may be useful to P.
I dont think either of these perspectives were unreasonable. It seems that both 
parties became entrenched in their respective positions  and that was the cause of 
the delay. This is perhaps understandable after many years of dealing with a claim 
thats been the subject of numerous disputes and complaint referrals to this Service. 
Nonetheless, it would have been preferable for Covea to respond more proactively to 
the queries raised by Mr R and to be clear that it would pay for Ps specific costs 
sooner. But I think its unlikely that would have made a material difference, given the 
differing opinions of the parties about the way forward. So, all things considered, I 
dont think Covea acted unfairly or unreasonably.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman