DRN-1819601
The complaint
Mr S owns a property which he rents out. He complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
plc refused to pay the whole of a claim on his landlords building insurance policy when the 
roof leaked.
What happened
Mr S was told that there had been a water leak at the property, with internal damage to a 
room. He contacted RSA to make a claim under his landords insurance policy. RSA asked 
for further information which Mr S obtained from a property maintenance company. The leak 
apparently was related to some decking on a flat roof. The property maintenance company 
said the decking would need to be lifted to find out exactly where the leak was and repair it. 
RSA suggested that Mr S went ahead with this work and once the cause of the leak was 
known it could tell him whether he had a valid claim under his insurance policy. 
Mr S was not happy with this and complained to RSA. RSA said for a claim to be valid, the 
damage would have to have been caused by an insured event such as storm, fire, theft or 
flood. RSA said it had checked the weather conditions at the time and there were no strong 
winds or heavy rain that could count as a storm. RSA suggested again that, as the leak 
would have to be repaired anyway, Mr S went ahead and did this and then contact it again 
once the cause was known.
Mr S was also unhappy with the length of time it took RSA to deal with the claim and to reply 
to his emails. RSA accepted there had been a slight delay in dealing with the claim and 
some slight confusion at the start, and issued Mr S with a compensation payment of £50 for 
this.
Once further investigations had been carried out, RSA paid for the cost of repairing the 
internal damage to the property, but wouldnt pay the claim for the external repairs. The 
property maintenance company said that the membrane under the decking had deteriorated 
over time causing small holes which had let water through gradually. RSA said the damage 
was therefore caused by gradual deterioration, which is excluded under Mr Ss policy. 
Mr S complained to RSA again. He said the roof repairs should have been covered by his 
landlords insurance or his additional home emergency cover. RSA said that the damage to 
the roof was not covered by his buildings insurance because it happened gradually. RSA 
said that the home emergency part of the policy covers emergencies such as a leaking pipe 
or water entering under storm conditions, posing a risk to a person or the property. RSA said 
maintenance related issues are excluded so the roof damage was not covered by the home 
emergency cover either. RSA said that had its home emergency contractors attended to look 
at the damage they wouldnt have been able to do permanent repairs as the policy would not 
cover lifting the decking to try and find out the cause of the leak. 
RSA said that if it had sent out the contractors under the home emergency part of the policy, 
that would have cost it a call out fee of £120. RSA said in a bid to assist it had issued an 
equivalent payment of £120 to Mr S.
Mr S disagreed with RSAs decision. He said the property was only a few years old and had 
always been well maintained. He said the leak did not happen over time and he had reported 
it as soon as it was noticed. He said the home emergency policy would have covered the 
cost of lifting a few boards and fixing the leak. Mr S also asked RSA to refund him the sum of 
£75 which was what he paid the property maintenance company to provide a report. RSA 
agreed to reimburse the £75 but otherwise did not change its position. 
Mr S was not happy with RSAs response and so he complained to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into his complaint but didnt uphold it. Our investigator said he thought it 
was reasonable for RSA to ask Mr S to establish the cause of the leak so it could decide 
whether the damage was covered by his insurance policy. He said he didnt think there were 
entirely unreasonable delays in RSA getting back to Mr S, and the £50 it offered him was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
The investigator said that, whilst there was heavy rain around the time of the leak, we 
wouldnt expect it to cause the sort of damage to the membrane as happened here. Similarly 
the investigator said we wouldnt expect this sort of damage to be covered by the accidental 
damage or home emergency parts of Mr Ss policy as it happened over time.
Mr S was not happy with the investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision. Mr S says he made a genuine claim which should have been covered 
by his insurance policy or his home emergency policy which he had paid extra for. He wants 
the claim paid in full.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think RSA has done anything wrong. I will explain why I think this.
Mr S had an all risks landlords building insurance policy with RSA including home 
emergency cover. All risks, although not specifically defined in Mr Ss policy documents, 
usually means that any damage will be covered unless an exclusion applies. When we look 
at complaints about all risks policies, we wouldnt expect the consumer to be worse off than 
someone with a standard perils policy in the same situation. So I will consider this point 
first.
In order for a claim to be covered under such a standard policy it first of all has to come 
under a specific peril listed as covered in the policy, like storm, flood or escape of water 
from a tank, apparatus, pipe or appliance. If the damage would be covered but for an 
exclusion in the policy then we can decide if its fair for the insurer to apply that exclusion. 
The most likely specific named peril that might apply here would be storm. 
To decide if the storm cover applies we ask three questions and it is only if the answer to 
each of those questions is yes that we would be likely to uphold the complaint. 
The questions are: 
 On the balance of evidence, do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the 
date the damage is said to have happened? 
 Is the damage claimed for consistent with what we generally see as storm damage?  
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage?Storm is not defined in Mr Ss policy so I have checked if there were strong winds around 
the time of the leak that might cause damage, or exceptional amounts of rain.
There were no such strong winds at the time but there was heavy rain that could be 
described as storm conditions. However we would not expect heavy rain to damage a rubber 
membrane underneath decking, and indeed the property maintenance company said the 
membrane had deteriorated over time, letting water through gradually. So I dont think storm 
cover would apply in this case.  
Next I will consider if Mr S had a valid claim as he had an all risks policy. It could be said 
that the membrane was damaged. However RSA relied on the following exclusion clause in 
the policy 
Property damage insurance
10 Any other accident
What is not covered
3 Damage caused by
B wear and tear, gradual deterioration, or any gradually operating cause
So I need to look at whether it was fair and reasonable for RSA to have relied on this 
exclusion. Mr S says that the property was only a few years old and the damage could not 
have happened gradually. However the property maintenance company that looked at the 
roof said that the rubber membrane had deteriorated over time. I think it was fair for RSA to 
refuse Mr Ss claim under this exclusion, as the purpose of insurance is not to pay for 
property maintenance issues that any homeowner might be liable for.
Finally, I will consider whether the damage to the roof should have been covered by Mr Ss 
home emergency cover. RSA says that its home emergency contractors would only attend 
under this section of the policy if there was an emergency situation which required 
immediate attention, for example if water was leaking uncontrollably and a plumber was 
required. This was not the case here. RSA also says that even if it had asked its home 
emergency contractors to visit, they wouldnt have been able to do anything as the cause of 
the leak wasnt clear. Mr S had trace and access cover with his policy, but under the terms 
of the policy this would only have covered locating the source of an escape of water from a 
tank, apparatus, pipe or appliance. The leak at Mr Ss property was caused by water 
gradually coming through small holes in the membrane under the decking, so I think RSA 
acted reasonably when it said the claim wouldnt be covered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman