DRN-4002992
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the way esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels 
administered his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D bought a car insurance policy with esure in April 2022. He set up a Direct Debit 
Instruction (DDI) to pay for the policy in monthly instalments under a credit agreement. 
esure wasnt able to set up the DDI as its systems wouldnt allow it. This was because the 
sort code for the account was for a branch of Mr Ds bank that had closed. 
Mr D raised a complaint. He said other organisations had no issue with DDI payments under 
his account - only esure. 
In July 2022 esure said it would work to resolve the issue internally but in the meantime it 
gave Mr D the option to either set up a DDI under another account, pay the premium by 
credit card, or pay manually every month by debit card. 
For the inconvenience caused to Mr D, esure apologised and paid him £75 compensation. 
Mr D remained unhappy and asked us to look at things for him. He wasnt satisfied that 
esure had done enough to resolve his complaint. Mr D wanted esure to send him a reminder 
ahead of the monthly premium due date. He said the letters esure sent him after the 
premium became due caused him stress as it warned of the possibility of his credit score 
being affected. 
esure has assured this service that there has been no negative impact on Mr Ds credit 
score. 
Our Investigator explained that we couldnt ask esure to change its systems to allow it to set 
up the DDI as Mr D wanted - or insist it sent Mr D reminders ahead of the monthly premium. 
The Investigator asked esure if the latter was possible - but it said it had no facility to enable 
it to do this. 
The Investigator understood that receiving letters from esure after the monthly premium 
became due may have been upsetting. But she also considered that it was right for esure to 
fully explain the situation and next steps if Mr D didnt pay the premium promptly. And she 
explained that ultimately the duty to ensure payments are made on time rests with Mr D as 
the policyholder.
Even so, the Investigator thought esure should pay Mr D a further £100 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
esure didnt reply. Mr D didnt accept the Investigators view. He said the issue has been 
going on for almost a year, yet esure hasnt resolved it. He doesnt think it unreasonable for 
esure to send him alerts ahead of the premium due rather than send him threatening letters 
as soon as the premium is overdue. He says he paid the balance due by credit card and had 
to pay additional fees as a result. 
Mr D isnt satisfied that esure has shown any evidence of its attempts to resolve the issue. 
He said the compensation isnt enough to reflect the stress, anxiety and worry of potential 
consequences he has faced over almost a year. 
So Mr D wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ds frustration with the administration of his policy by esure. From its  
notes provided to us, it made internal enquiries as to why its system couldnt process the 
DDI. esure told us that because its system recognised the sort code was for a closed branch 
of Mr Ds bank, it wouldnt allow it to set up the DDI. While I appreciate this isnt ideal, it isnt 
something I can force esure to be able to override, if it has explained this isnt possible.
So Ive looked at what esure did instead. And I think its offer of alternative options was 
overall fair in the circumstances. When Mr D set up the policy, he agreed to ensure it was 
paid for. And so I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr D to have put in place his own 
reminder to pay the premium each month once esure explained what the limits were on 
collecting premiums by DDI for this account. Provided Mr D made payments on time, this 
would have prevented overdue reminder letters being sent to Mr D and prevented the 
anxiety and stress they caused him. 
But I also think as a business esure - through no fault of Mr Ds - has made the repayment of 
premiums under the policy more problematic than it should have been. And Ive seen no 
evidence of any further attempts by esure to resolve the issue since July 2022. 
Mr D explained that it wasnt possible to set up a DDI under another bank account. And hes 
told us he has incurred charges by deciding to pay the balance off by credit card after 
receiving a further overdue premium reminder in January 2023. In this letter, esure asked Mr 
D to pay the balance of the premium in full as he had previously been late making payments. 
I can understand his worry when he received letters from UKI warning of the consequences 
of not paying on time, before it offered alternative options, when he had provided correct 
bank details for esure to collect the monthly payment due. 
Overall I think a fair outcome is for esure to increase the compensation it paid to a total of 
£175. I understand Mr D will be disappointed. But I think this sum is fair and in line with 
awards we give in similar cases - to reflect the distress and inconvenience and impact of his 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require esure Insurance Limited 
trading as Sheilas Wheels to pay Mr D £100 compensation in addition to the £75 its already 
paid for the distress and inconvenience caused by its administration of the policy. 
esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels must pay the compensation within 28 
days of the date on which we tell it Mr D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman