DRN-2720309
The complaint
Mr M complains about the transfer of his ISA from a third-party provider, referred to as the 
transferor to Santander UK Plc, referred to as Santander or the transferee. 
He says that the redress  £50 compensation  offered by Santander, as a gesture of
goodwill, isnt enough.
What happened
In my provisional decision of 24 February 2021, a summary of which is quoted below and 
forms part of this final decision, I upheld the complaint. In summary, I said:
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Santander says Im not
persuaded that it behaved reasonably.
Mr M has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered
carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be
the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised, its not what Im 
required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, 
but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr M and Santander, and reach what I
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather
than take any sides.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not satisfied that Santander behaved
reasonably in completing the ISA transfer.
Although Im mindful that Santander completed the transfer within a total of 10/11 working
days of receiving Mr Ms application on 13 June 2019, in line with its internal processes and
procedure (and HMRC guidance)  I think it wouldve been done (one/two days) sooner had
it not made an error.
Im conscious that transfers can take between 15 and 30 working days depending on the
type of ISA to be transferred and the business, but this was a Cash ISA transfer and Mr M
submitted the correct information. Therefore, I think its more likely (than not) that but for
Santanders error, the process wouldve been completed sooner than it was. And I say one
or two days sooner because I cant safely say exactly when it wouldve been completed.
Santander confirmed the original transfer request was submitted by it on 13 June 2019,
however evidence initially provided by Mr M shows that it failed to include the transfer
amount, despite him making this clear in his application to it on 12 June 2019. I note the
transferor also says that Santander didnt state that it was for a partial amount of £20,000 in
its request. Im aware that Santander only now accepts this to be the case but doesnt feel
that it needs to do anything differently, but I disagree.
I think its Santanders request thats likely to have prompted the transferor to subsequently
contact Mr M  having accepted his application to transfer  in order to give him (another)
opportunity to resubmit/reconfirm the request and amount to transfer.
I should make clear that as Im only considering the actions of Santander (and not the
actions of the transferor) so I make no determination of the transferors actions which I will in 
due course consider in a separate decision.
I note Santander says that the new request  which was paper based  showed the correct
amount to be transferred and consequently the transfer was attempted again on 19 June
2019 and successfully completed on 25 June 2019  within seven/eight days.
But despite what Santander says, Im satisfied that the total transaction  although
completed within 15 days  wouldve been completed one/two days sooner, had it provided
the correct information at the outset.
So, in the circumstances, I think Mr M is entitled to some compensation. I note that
Santander had volunteered to pay one days loss of interest, but provisionally I think it should
pay another days loss of interest  to reflect a maximum of two days delay  as if the
transfer had been completed on 23 June 2019.
Im mindful Santander has offered to pay Mr M £50 compensation for the delay in
responding to his complaint  which I think is fair  but I think it should increase this amount
to £75 to take account of the distress and inconvenience caused by the error.
Whether or not a different business was able to complete a similar transaction sooner, Im
unable to safely say that the transfer  but for the error  wouldve completed by 18 June
2019, roughly within four/five working days (with a weekend in the middle) of Santander
receiving Mr Ms application to transfer.
Santander responded and accepted my decision. In summary, it said:
Having considered the difficulty in obtaining the information to resolve the issue for Mr M 
(name anonymised) ISA Transfer and the resulting delay, of course I would like to settle the 
complaint.
I have looked at the amount of interest that Mr M would have lost for the 2 day delay in 
transferring the funds. As the interest rate on the account was only 0.01% the lost interest 
would be calculated at only 1p on the balance of 20k. Looking at the 8% simple interest it 
only works out at £8.77 gross.
In the interest of settling the account, I would be happy to increase the compensation from 
the additional £25 requested to £35, to include loss of interest. 
Mr M also responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. In short, he made the 
following points:
Hes pleased that the ombudsman is minded to uphold this complaint. 
Hes already accepted my decision in the other case. Hes pleased that Santander has finally admitted it made a mistake in the transfer 
process, its a shame it didnt accept this before, perhaps this situation couldve been 
avoided  
He understands the ombudsmans comment on being unable to safely say whether 
the transfer wouldve completed by 18 June 2019 but for the error. Hes provided a 
chronology and hopes he can be of assistance. 
Payment wasnt received until 25 June 2019 and no evidence of any adjustment, only 
evidence of re-crediting payment again on 26 June 2019  which may have resulted 
in another days lost interest. 
Hes closed his account and transferred his cash ISA to another provider, so its 
difficult to see how Santander can credit the account with the missing interest within 
the tax-free wrapper. Unless Santander can find a way around it, its not 
unreasonable to expect there should be some financial consideration of the tax-free 
status for the lost interest. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. 
Despite Mr Ms response, I dont consider that any material new points have been raised and 
the key points remain the same, and have been considered by me, in my provisional 
decision. 
In other words, Im satisfied Ive considered all the points that are relevant to my decision, 
therefore I still think the complaint should be upheld. 
I appreciate the points Mr M makes, but despite what he says (included his chronology very 
kindly provided), Im still unable to safely say that the transfer  but for the error  wouldve 
completed by 18 June 2019, roughly within four/five working days (with a weekend in the 
middle) of Santander receiving Mr Ms application to transfer.
Its worth reiterating that transfers can take between 15 and 30 working days depending on 
the type of ISA to be transferred, therefore I dont think its fair to say that unless a business 
performs a textbook perfect transfer  its in the wrong. 
That notwithstanding, this was a Cash ISA transfer and Mr M submitted the correct 
information which the business failed to act upon or acknowledge  which is the primary 
basis of my upholding this complaint. 
Thats why I think its more likely (than not) that in this instance, but for Santanders error, the 
process wouldve been completed sooner than it was. On the face of the evidence, and on 
balance, Ive suggested two days sooner because I cant safely say exactly when it wouldve 
been completed, and I still cant, despite Mr Ms additional points.  
I note that Santander have offered to pay Mr M an additional £35 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused (including the £8.77 two days loss of interest)  rather than £25 
(plus lost interest) as Id provisionally suggested  to try and resolve this complaint. Despite 
the points Mr M makes, in the circumstances I think thats broadly fair and reasonable and is 
slightly more than I said it should pay. Im mindful that Mr M transferred his ISA to a third-party provider, but I note it was his 
decision to do so, so in the circumstances I wont be asking Santander to pay any more 
compensation for any potential loss of tax status on the interest.  
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should pay Mr M the following redress:
£85 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, including two days loss of 
interest, less any payment already made. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint.  
Santander UK Plc should pay the redress set out above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman