DRN-1885125
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Barclays Bank Uk Plc (Barclays) changed the terms and 
conditions on her fee-paying Tech Pack without informing her. This led to her paying the 
monthly Tech pack fees for a tablet that was no longer covered by the Tech Pack.
Mrs M has also explained that when she went to complain, she was told she couldn't. When 
she pursued the matter further with Barclays, she was then told that no one was available to 
deal with her complaint.
What happened
Barclays said that the Tech Pack covered gadgets up to 5 years old. It said that this limit was 
the same when Mrs M had previously held the Current Account Plus too and said that this 
limit had not changed. 
Barclays said it had sent information about the Tech Pack cover (which included the age 
limit for gadgets) to Mrs M, and so didnt think it was at fault for Mrs Ms claim being 
declined. However Barclays did apologise for how it handled the complaint and credited 
£100 to Mrs Ms account for the poor service she received.
One of our adjudicators considered what Mrs M and Barclays have said and provided, and 
she felt that Barclays had provided Mrs M with sufficient information about the age limits for 
gadgets. She also thought that the offer of £100 was reasonable for the level of service that 
Mrs M experienced.
Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it might help to clarify from the outset that as this case is against Barclays, I can only 
consider whether it did anything wrong or acted unreasonably. As such, I cant look at the 
actions of the insurer of the gadget insurance. In other words, I cant consider whether the 
gadget insurance claim was correctly declined or even consider what the insurer told Mrs M 
about the scope of cover. 
Mrs M says that she would like more compensation because (amongst other reasons) her 
husband had to buy her a new tablet - which she says is not her preferred model of tablet. 
She says that if her husband had not been able to afford to buy a new tablet, shed still be 
without one over a year later. However, these concerns essentially relate to her claim being 
declined, rather than because of anything that Barclays has done. So I dont think it would be 
appropriate to require Barclays to pay Mrs M compensation for these reasons.Turning to what Barclays was responsible for, since 2014 it was obliged to provide Mrs M 
with Annual Eligibility Statements. These were to remind packaged account holders (or in 
this case Tech Pack holders) what the eligibility requirements were for the relevant 
insurance policies that they held. This was so that account holders could review, on an 
annual basis, whether the insurance cover continued to be suitable for their needs and 
circumstances.
Barclays has provided copies of some of the AES it had sent to Mrs M. I note that they 
looked to have been posted to the correct address for Mrs M. So I think its more likely than 
not that some, if not all, of them were received by her over the years she held the Current 
Account Plus, and in more recent years the Tech Pack.
Looking through the AES, I can see that they explained that there was an age limit of 5 years 
for gadgets to remain covered. And this appeared in all of the AES that Ive seen (dated 
2016, 2017 and 2019). So I think Barclays did what it needed to do to remind Mrs M of the 
age limit on the Tech Pack cover.
It seems that Mrs M mayve also been told, perhaps by the insurer, that the terms and 
conditions had changed. So Ive checked, and the 5-year age limit had always applied to the 
Tech Pack cover. And the 5-year age limit was applicable to the gadget cover on the Current 
Account Plus going back to at least 2011 as well. So I cant see that there was a change to 
the cover that Barclays had failed to highlight to Mrs M.
As such, whilst I really do understand why Mrs M is so frustrated that her claim was 
declined, when shed been paying out for gadget cover for a number of years, at the same 
time I cant say that Barclays had failed to inform her of the age limit.
Because of this, I cant reasonably require Barclays to pay her more compensation or get 
Barclays to cover the cost of her claim, as ultimately, I think it did what it needed to do to 
remind her of the limitations of the cover.
I note that Mrs M is also unhappy with how her complaint was handled by Barclays. It seems 
that her complaint was not dealt with when she first raised it. And it appears that she then 
had to chase Barclays up for its response.
Barclays has already paid Mrs M £100 for the poor level of service that she experienced. 
And having considered the trouble and upset that this caused Mrs M, I think what Barclays 
has paid Mrs M is a reasonable amount and reflects the inconvenience she experienced 
because of what Barclays may have got wrong.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Thomas White
Ombudsman