DRN-1671835
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a Select account in 
February 1997.
What happened
Lloyds accepted it mis-sold the Select account to Mr B. And it agreed to refund all the fees 
he paid, plus interest, in an attempt to put things right. It also refunded all overdraft fees and 
overdraft interest that were directly caused by the account fees.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. And he thought what Lloyds had done was 
fair. Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. Mr B says he 
feels that more overdraft charges should be refunded and that we should take into 
consideration the cumulative effect that this had on his finances.
I also can see that Mr B has raised concerns relating to the treatment he received when 
trying to pay in a cheque. I see that Lloyds has not had an opportunity to look into this matter 
as yet, so Mr B would in the first instance need to direct this matter to Lloyds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint.
Ive carefully thought about everything Ive seen on this complaint. Having done so, I think 
what Lloyds has done to put things right is fair. So Im not going to ask it to pay Mr B any 
more money. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Mr B says Lloyds should pay him more compensation. Although hes not said how much 
more he thinks Lloyds needs to pay him, he has indicated that it should be a larger amount 
and should include more overdraft fees and charges. I should start by saying that the way 
Lloyds has calculated what Mr B is due for mis-selling him a Select account is in line with 
what wed normally tell a business to do, if we were to decide a packaged bank account had 
been mis-sold. 
I say this because where a financial business does, or has done, something wrong we look 
to ensure it puts things right for the consumer in a fair way. And we normally look to 
businesses to do this by, as closely as possible, placing the consumer in the financial 
position they wouldve been in if things hadnt gone wrong. So we essentially look to unwind 
any wrongdoing  after all it wouldnt be fair for a consumer to lose out financially because of 
something a business had done wrong.
I can ask a business to compensate for any additional (or consequential) losses that a 
consumer may have suffered. But only where theres reason to believe the initial mis-sale 
directly caused those additional losses. In other words, in order to agree that Lloyds should 
refund any overdraft fees, Id need to be satisfied that Mr B wouldnt have paid these, but for 
the Select account having been mis-sold in the first place.
So we normally look at the account on a month by month basis to see if there are any 
instances where it is the packaged account fee that caused a consumer to go over their 
overdraft limit or caused any other charges. This is because in these instances it is clear that 
the account fee did directly cause the additional loss. Having looked at Mr Bs account 
ledgers, I can see that Lloyds has already refunded the interest and account fees that were 
directly caused by the account fees. Mr B did on other occasions have to pay unpaid item 
fees during the time he held the Select account. But this was because he was overdrawn by 
more than the amount of the Select account fee.
 
Mr B managed his current account on a day-to-day basis  and his spending wouldve 
reflected his changing circumstances, needs and resources. In other words, Mr Bs balance 
at any point in time was shaped by the continued management of his account and hundreds 
of individual account decisions and transactions. And, having looked at his account ledgers, 
it was the overall financial management of Mr Bs account that caused him to pay the 
additional charges which hes now unhappy with. It therefore would not be reasonable for me 
to say that, but for the Select account fees, his account would have been managed 
differently.
Overall and having carefully thought about everything, I dont think that Mr B did suffer any 
additional direct losses as a result of having been mis-sold the Select account that has not 
already been refunded. So I think that what Lloyds has already refunded Mr B is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
 
I want to reassure Mr B that Ive looked at all the information hes provided. And Ive thought 
about everything hes said. But having done so, I think what Lloyds has agreed to do is fair. 
So I dont think that it needs to pay him any more money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think that the amount Lloyds Bank PLC has already paid 
Mr B is fair. So Im not requiring it to do anything further.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman