DRN-3326091
The complaint
Mr R, who is represented by a broker, Mr H, complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial Services refused to accept his assertion that the car 
had been sold with an incorrect mileage figure and that the dealer had induced him to agree 
to an annual mileage of 6,000.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr R acquired a second-hand car funded by a finance agreement with 
Alphera. The car was sold as having covered 25,652 miles. In July 2019 Mr R had the car 
serviced and this showed the mileage to be 39,908. He maintains that he did not cover some 
14,000 miles in that period. 
Mr H has submitted service records for the car which show that the mileage on 16 May 2018 
was 25,690 which he argues shows the dealer misled Mr R as to the correct mileage at the 
point of sale. At the time Mr R entered into the agreement he was living in the UK, but he 
relocated to Spain for a period and took the car with him. 
Mr H has also suggested the agreement is invalid. Mr R took delivery of the car in January 
and he signed an agreement then, but a second agreement was drawn up in April. The 
broker has explained that there was a delay in obtaining clearance on the car and so 
payment wasnt made until April. That led to a duplicate agreement being drawn up.  Alphera 
has also submitted the account ledger showing the first payment being taken in May 2019.
Mr R also says that he was told to take an agreement with an annual mileage of 6,000 when 
his actual expected mileage was probably double that figure. There were three phone calls 
between Mr R and Alphera which covered this issue. 
Initially the broker called him to confirm he had agreed to the finance and he understood it 
including the fact it was for 6,000 miles. The broker explained he would have to pay excess 
mileage if he exceeded 6,000. He was concerned about the term and the mileage. He said 
he had been told by the dealer that he could hand the car back after two years. He said he 
would speak to the dealer.
The broker called back and agreed to speak to the dealer. Later that day the B called him 
again and said she was aware the dealer had spoken to him and he confirmed he was 
happy to proceed. He was reminded of the 6,000-mile limit. He said he had a letter from the 
dealer which said he could end the agreement after 24 months at no cost. However, he said 
he understood the agreement was for 6,000 miles a year and 48 months
The dealer did provide a letter dated 18 April 2019 which states: As discussed you can 
hand the vehicle back to us at 24 months without charge or penalty, from the delivery date of 
31 January 2019 subject to a condition report, or you can keep the vehicle for anything up to 
48 months providing you maintain the monthly payments.
However the dealer ceased to trade and Mr R was left without the ability to hand the car 
back. 
His complaint was rejected by Alphera and so he brought the matter to this service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He didnt consider there was sufficient evidence to say the mileage was materially incorrect 
or that Mr R had been told that he had to sign up to a 6,000-mile limit. He also accepted 
Alpheras explanation of the second contract. Mr H responded on Mr Rs behalf and said the 
dealer was acting as an agent for Alphera and had misled Mr R. He also said the fact there 
were two agreements suggested fraud.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have given this matter a great deal of thought and I have concluded that I cannot uphold it. 
I will explain why.
Firstly on the matter of the milage at the time of sale, there is conflicting circumstantial 
evidence. The reported mileage on 16 May 2018 is 23,685 and the mileage shown on the 
sales invoice is some 40 miles less. So one of these two figures must be incorrect. However, 
while I accept the May mileage is more likely to be accurate I cannot say for certain that it is. 
I am also aware that after acquiring the car Mr R took it to Spain and used it while there. As 
such it is not unrealistic to say that he could have covered 14,00 miles in the period up to 
July 2019. I appreciate Mr R says he didnt do as many miles as this, but there is no 
documentary or supporting evidence to allow me to conclude that the mileage at the time of 
sale was materially wrong.
On the matter of the agreed annual mileage I have listened closely to the three calls. These 
are undated, but in the third Mr R says he has received a letter from the dealer and as this is 
dated 18 April it suggests the calls took place in April.  Even if they occurred earlier the 
content is clear. Each time the broker stresses the fact the agreement is for a 6,000-mile 
limit and asks Mr R if he is happy with that. In the final call after having spoken to the dealer 
Mr R says he is willing to proceed and he also confirms he has already taken delivery of the 
car.
As noted above the dealer said it would take the car back without penalty or charge. That 
does not say that the agreement would be changed or that the 6,000-mile limit would be 
overlooked by Alphera. It was the dealer saying it would take the car back without charge, 
but as it has ceased trading I dont consider Alphera is obliged to step into the dealers 
shoes and take the car back or amend the agreement. 
I cannot say that Mr R was misled by Alphera or there was any misrepresentation. It is 
reasonable to conclude that had the dealer continued to trade then Mr R would have been 
able to return the car to the dealer. I have no reason to believe the dealer was aware that it 
would cease trading at the time it made that offer so I think it was genuine.
Finally on the issue of the two contracts I am satisfied from Alpheras records that payment 
to the dealer was delayed and the paperwork was duplicated to ensure the money was 
handed over. I have seen nothing to show that the terms changed and I can see that Mr R 
made the payments as agreed which indicates that he was content with the arrangement 
and he had use of the car. It was only when he had other concerns that he sought to 
persuade Alphera that the contract was void. However, I am satisfied that the substance of 
the arrangement was agreed by him and there is no basis to say what Alphera did would 
allow me to require it to void the agreement.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman