DRN-2193957
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim under
their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J had a home insurance policy with UKI . Mr and Mrs J are in their 80s and 70s
respectively and dealing with the claim was stressful, so their daughter and son in law acted
as representatives.
In December 2018, Mr and Mrs J claimed for a water leak and called UKI to fix the damage.
UKI appointed contractors to fix the damage, but before they did this, UKI asked Mrs J to
remove the kitchen lino herself to allow the floor to dry out.
At a later stage, Mr and Mrs J discovered that there were high levels of asbestos at the
property  so they never should have been asked to remove the lino themselves.
During the work, Mr and Mrs Js representatives complained to UKI on more than one
occasion about delays in completing the work and the inconsistent reports on the levels of 
asbestos at the property. And they also complained about Mrs J being asked to remove the 
flooring and not being given alternative accommodation whilst the works were being carried
out.
As the property had no hot water, the kitchen couldnt be used, and the floor was rotten and
Unsafe. So Mr and Mrs J moved in with their daughters family, which meant their adult
grandson had to move out of the house to live with his other grandparent.
UKI paid Mr and Mrs J a disturbance allowance of £15 per person per night and increased
this to £30 per person per night after some months, but they didnt backdate this to the date
of the claim. And Mr and Mrs J and their representatives dont think UKI has paid enough in
this regard.
UKI upheld some complaint points and paid compensation of £350. And they then
considered some further points and offered a further £200 in compensation.
Mr and Mrs J and their family didnt think the amount of compensation reflected the extent of
the distress and inconvenience theyd suffered. So they brought a complaint to our service.
And when they did this, they raised some new points that theyd not raised previously with
UKI.
As more than 6 months had passed since UKI had addressed some of Mr and Mrs Js
complaint points, our investigator asked UKI if they would agree to us looking at all the
complaint points raised by Mr and Mrs J, and UKI didnt object to this. Although the 
investigator did tell Mr and Mrs Js daughter we couldnt look at a more recent issue 
discovered with a header tank.
Our investigator didnt think the total compensation UKI had offered to Mr and Mrs J,
including an additional amount theyd offered when they sent information on the complaint to
us, was enough for the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs J had experienced. She said
they should pay a total of £850. Mr and Mrs J and their representatives didnt agree, they
didnt think this sum was enough, as it didnt penalise UKI enough for the poor way theyd
treated Mr and Mrs J.
Mr and Mrs Js representatives have said they were too afraid not to renew the policy with 
UKI when it expired in case UKI didnt finish the works and that Mr Js health deteriorated 
after he moved back home, and he spent some time in hospital. They and their 
representatives couldnt say for sure, but thought this might be because of the asbestos.
Mr and Mrs Js representatives have explained that the whole family went through a
horrendous ordeal throughout the seven months it took to complete the work. And that the 
impact on her parents was severe, as Mr J was partially sighted and found it difficult to use 
the stairs in her house, having moved out of his bungalow.
UKI have only recently said theyve accepted our investigators view on the further
compensation. But, as Mr and Mrs J and their representatives dont agree, the matter has
come to me for decision.
I issued a provisional in which I set out why I thought UKI should pay £1,300 in total as 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs J experienced as a result of 
the mistakes it made when dealing with their claim and because it hadnt properly 
considered their ages and physical health when doing so. And I gave both parties one month 
to make further comments and evidence.
Mr and Mrs Js daughter came back to explain that Mr and Mrs J have never actually been 
paid any compensation by UKI. She has also queried what a disturbance allowance is for 
and whether Mr and Mrs J would have had to pay extra on top of this if theyd gone into a 
B&B. Shes also explained that if Mr and Mrs J had known it would take around seven 
months to repair their property they would have opted for like for like alternative 
accommodation, as opposed to staying with them. She has also reiterated her concern of 
UKIs lack of awareness of the possibility of asbestos being present and their approach once 
it did know this was the case.  
UKI have recently come back. It has accepted the claim took three to four months longer 
than it should have done and a specialist should have been appointed at the outset. But it 
feels that there was always going to be a lot of upheaval and distress for Mr and Mrs J and it 
has pointed out they should only be compensated for additional distress and inconvenience. 
And its also said if Mr and Mrs J had wanted alternative accommodation it would have 
considered this, but they didnt want to pursue it. Its also said the overall health risk to Mr 
and Mrs J from the asbestos was low, as the real risk of asbestos related diseases comes 
from regular exposure. Overall, UKI thinks the £850 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience suggested by the investigator is reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Js daughters concerns and have taken them into account, but I still 
think the level of compensation I suggested in my provisional decision is appropriate. This is 
because while I appreciate the impact on them was significant, it hopefully wont affect their 
long term physical health and they were able to stay somewhere comfortable while their 
house was put right; albeit for far longer than should have been the case. I have also noted 
UKIs comments, but it hasnt said anything to change my mind on the level of compensation. I think the level of distress and inconvenience for Mr and Mrs J was 
substantial and that £1,300 is an appropriate level of compensation for this. 
I have also noted Mr and Mrs Js daughters comment on the disturbance allowance. This 
would never be intended to cover the actual cost of alternative accommodation like a B&B. It 
is intended to cover additional costs as a result of people having to be in alternative 
accommodation, wherever that may be. So Mr and Mrs J would never have been expected 
to pay anything towards a B&B or like for like alternative accommodation. I also appreciate 
that they may have gone for like for like accommodation if theyd realised they would be out 
of their property for much longer than they had anticipated, but the level of compensation I 
have awarded reflects the fact this happened. And  overall  I think it is fair and reasonable.  
Putting things right
As I explained in my provisional decision and have explained above, I think the fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint is for UKI to pay Mr and Mrs J £1,300 in compensation 
for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided UK Insurance Limited should pay
£1,300 in compensation for distress and inconvenience in total. This means if it hasnt paid 
anything it should pay this amount in full. But if it has paid anything, and Mr and Mrs J have 
actually received it, UK Insurance Limited can deduct the amount concerned.
UKI Insurance Limited should do this within 28 days of us telling it Mr and Mrs J have 
accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this it should add simple interest to the 
compensation at a rate of 8% per year simple, from the date of my decision to the date it 
makes payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2020.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman