DRN-2946779
The complaint
The estate of Mr H is complaining about advice given by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited (HLAM) in relation to an estate planning bond. Mrs G is an executor of 
Mr Hs will and is representing his estate in the complaint, with the help of an independent 
financial advisor (IFA). We have the consent of the other executor to look into the matter.
What happened
In 2002, Mrs Gs late husband, Mr H, was advised by HLAM to set up an estate planning 
bond. When Mr H passed away, Mrs G contacted an IFA to help her understand her 
finances. The IFA was surprised that the income from the bond had been set up as 5% of 
the original capital per annum, increasing at 5% per annum. This meant there was a tax 
liability from year two for the life of the bond, with any amount over 5% being deemed to be a 
gain even if there was no actual gain.
The IFA looked through the paperwork and couldnt see that HLAM had discussed the 
implications of the income structure with Mr H. Mrs G thinks HLAMs advice should have 
included a detailed explanation of the future implications of setting up the bonds in the way 
they did.
Mrs G says her husband wasnt aware of the tax implications and now the estate needs to 
clear the backdated tax liability. She says the tax liability is around £5k and would like HLAM 
to pay this. She says that if HLAM had provided proper advice the estate wouldnt be in this 
position now. 
HLAM replied to Mrs Gs complaint. They said their adviser had recommended the 
investment bond was written into trust for the purposes of inheritance tax planning. They 
said the structure had been recommended as the amount invested would become a 
Potentially Exempt Transfer, falling outside each individuals estate after seven years, and 
any capital growth would also fall outside each estate. This would achieve the aim of 
reducing the amount of inheritance tax payable by Mr Hs estate.
HLAM added that the trust was set up with a fixed income structure which couldnt be 
amended. They said the adviser had written: Any withdrawal which exceeds the annual 
allowance of 5% will be added to your income and taxed for income tax. After twenty years, 
the whole of the income will be subject to income tax. So, HLAM said they were satisfied 
the tax implications had been explained.
Mrs G wasnt happy with HLAMs response. She said the tax implications should have been 
expressed much more clearly and asked why the adviser hadnt recommended restricting 
the withdrawals to 5% per year (without the annual increase) to avoid the tax liability until at 
least the twentieth year. She added that her late husband had been a taxpayer and that she 
and her husband had sufficient income from elsewhere so didnt need the income from these 
trusts to have been set up in the way they were.
HLAM replied to Mrs G, saying the paperwork showed Mr H had chosen to have the 5% 
increase each year to offset the effects of inflation. As Mrs G remained unhappy, she 
brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. She said its clear 
HLAM discussed the investment and its purpose with Mr H. And she thought the letter 
setting out Mr Hs requirements was clear that tax would be payable. She said Mr H and 
HLAM had had quite a few conversations and on balance she thought it was likely the tax 
implications would have been discussed. So, she didnt think it was fair to ask HLAM to pay 
the tax liability.
Mrs G was unhappy about our investigators view. Her IFA wrote to us saying the way the 
bond was set up always meant that the income tax would negate the growth and therefore 
the reason for setting up the estate planning bond. He said the structure meant that income 
tax was definitely being paid to potentially save inheritance tax when the notes suggested 
Mr H had enough income already without additional income from the bond. On that basis, he 
said he suspected Mr H had never been advised against the structure or of the actual 
implications. And he added that there were no specific warnings in the paperwork, just the 
standard bond withdrawal paragraph. The IFA and our investigator werent able to reach an 
agreement so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate itll be disappointing for the estate of Mr H, Im not upholding the 
complaint, for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain further.
Ive considered whether the bond was suitable for Mr Hs needs at the time, and also thought 
about what he was told about the tax implications and therefore whether he was given clear 
information.
Suitability
Mr Hs bond was arranged after a significant amount of correspondence between himself 
and the HLAM adviser. Before the bond was set up, there had been three telephone calls 
and one face to face meeting, as well as five letters from HLAM to Mr H and one from Mr H 
to HLAM. So there was plenty of opportunity for Mr H and the adviser to explore the options 
available and to discuss any questions, concerns and potential pitfalls. Its clear from the 
correspondence that Mr H was initially looking for inheritance tax planning and provision for 
long term care but this evolved to focus on just inheritance tax planning.
At the beginning of the relationship, Mr H completed a fact-finding questionnaire, enclosing 
with it a letter which gave more details about his and his wifes financial situation. The letter 
set out their levels of income at the time  saying they were happy with their income 
provided it increases more or less in line with inflation. It continued, saying that their 
investment portfolio was producing the income they needed. 
Based on this information, I can understand why Mrs G says she and her husband had 
enough income at the time  but its clear from the letter Mr H wanted their income to 
increase in line with inflation. And, given that the questionnaire says that Mr H and Mrs G 
were fully invested, I think its likely theyd have had to move some funds from other 
investments in order to invest in the estate planning bond  so its probable the income from 
other investments would have decreased when the bonds were opened.
HLAMs letter of 9 April 2002 says: We discussed the implications for the Settlor of choosing 
different income options. You prefer to have initial income of 5% per annum increasing by 
5% each year to produce a rising income to offset the effects of inflation. Considering what 
was written in Mr Hs initial letter (of January 2002) and in HLAMs letter four months later, I think on balance its likely Mr H expressed a preference for the income to be set to increase 
each year.
I appreciate Mrs G says this wasnt suitable, and must have been done without Mr H 
understanding the tax implications. However, any gain on the bond would be taxed at some 
point  whether that was tax on withdrawals over 5% during the life of the bond, or on the 
overall gain when the bond was surrendered. Its fair to say Mr H and the HLAM adviser 
would have expected the bond to gain in value over its lifetime  so it wouldnt necessarily 
be unsuitable to advise someone to take the additional withdrawals. In this case, Mr H was a 
basic rate taxpayer, and Mrs G was expected to become a non-taxpayer  so tax rates at 
surrender could potentially have been much higher.
Mrs G says that Mr H cant have been consulted about the tax implications. She says he was 
very organised and would have paid the tax had he known about it. But Ive seen copies of 
letters from the bond provider to Mr H notifying him that a chargeable event had occurred 
and that there might be a tax liability as a result. So Im not satisfied that Mr Hs non-
payment of the tax is good evidence that HLAM didnt warn him of the issue. 
Information about tax
HLAMs letter of 25 January 2002 explains more about the bond, and states: Income of 5% 
per annum is not declared on a tax return and is not subject to income tax for the first twenty 
years  A later letter, dated 7 February 2002, explained what the tax situation would be in 
the future, when the bond was surrendered. This explained that any investment gain is 
ultimately taxable, whether at the settlors tax rate, the special rate for trustees, or by the 
beneficiaries of the trust, at their own personal rates.  
HLAMs later letter, dated 9 April 2002, stated: Any withdrawal which exceeds the annual 
allowance of 5%, will be added to your income and taxed for income tax We identified that 
as Mrs [G] will shortly be a non tax payer, she is unlikely to suffer any additional income tax 
as a result of investing in this bond.
Mrs G has complained that this is just a standard paragraph and that the letter should have 
included more explicit warnings about the tax liabilities. But I think the wording is very clear. 
And by specifically saying that Mrs G was unlikely to incur tax, the implication was that, in 
contrast, Mr H was likely to need to pay tax on the additional income.
Summary
Taking everything together, there were extensive communications between Mr H and HLAM. 
The letters show that the adviser had thought about tax implications, and about income 
requirements, when advising Mr H. They refer to conversations both over the phone and in 
person, and Im satisfied the HLAM adviser did make Mr H aware of the tax implications of 
the bond. The duty of an adviser is to recommend a suitable product. Theres no 
requirement to recommend the most suitable product. The estate planning bond met Mr Hs 
desire to reduce the inheritance tax his beneficiaries would pay on his passing away  and it 
met Mr Hs stated requirements for an income increasing in line with inflation each year. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding the estate of Mr Hs complaint about Hargreaves 
Lansdown Asset Management Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman