DRN-3062433
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc has unfairly registered a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr A says he agreed a repayment plan with Santander in May 2020. He accepts he may 
have been late making some payments but says he did make them. Mr A says he thought 
the agreement was for six months, but Santander registered a default on his credit file before 
then. He says he thought six payments had to be missed before a default could be 
registered and says he didnt receive any letters from Santander about this. Mr A says he 
tried to speak to Santander but couldnt get through to it.
Santander says it wrote to Mr A in early 2020 about his account. It says it agreed a two-
month plan with him in May 2020 that he pay £10 a month. Santander says Mr A made the 
first payment but not the second and so the agreement ended. It says it sent numerous 
letters to Mr A about the account before sending him a Notice of Default, but he didnt 
respond and so registered a default on his credit file. Santander says it refunded charges 
and tried to help Mr A.
Mr A brought is complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator thought 
Mr A ought to have been aware that Santander was concerned about the account in early 
2020. And ought to have been aware of the agreement in May 2020. The investigator 
thought Mr A missed the required payment which ended the plan and couldnt hold 
Santander responsible for correctly addressed letters being received by Mr As neighbour. 
The investigator also thought Santander was entitled to register a default in these 
circumstances and that Mr A could have called Santander at other times of the day not just 
his lunch hour.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and in summary questions why Santander sent so many 
letters in early 2020. He says he suffered a bereavement during the plan leading to the 
missed payment and has screen shots of attempted calls to Santander. He also says he 
made a double payment of £20 in August 2020 to cover the missed payment and says 
Santander said it would call him during the plan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr A will be disappointed by my decision.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) provides guidance on the registration of a 
default and says a default should be registered after three to six months of arrears. I have 
looked carefully at Santanders records and can see that it sent a number of letters to Mr A 
about his account in early 2020. I think it ought to have been clear at that stage that 
Santander was concerned about the account, the lack of credits and that it had exceeded 
the overdraft limit. And I also think that Santander fairly tried to help Mr A by refunding 
charges
Im satisfied that a two-month plan was agreed between Mr A and Santander in May 2020. I 
appreciate Mr A says that agreement was for six months, but I have not seen any evidence a 
six-month plan was agreed. I can see from Santanders records that Mr A missed the second 
payment, and, in those circumstances, I dont think it had any option but to conclude the plan 
had failed. I can also see that Santander sent Mr A numerous letters about the position and 
asked him to make contact with it. I dont think Mr A replied to those letters or spoke to 
Santander and so I dont think it made a mistake by concluding the relationship between it 
and Mr A had broken down. It follows that I also dont think Santander made a mistake by 
registering a default on Mr As credit file in these circumstances.
I appreciate Mr A says he didnt receive any of Santanders letters until some months later 
as they were delivered to his neighbour. I dont think its clear why the letters would not have 
been received by Mr A as I can see they were correctly addressed. But in any event that is 
not something I can fairly hold Santander responsible for as its not responsible for the safe 
delivery of the mail. I also think that it was Mr As responsibility to manage his account and 
that he would have known he had missed a required payment. In those circumstances I 
would have expected him to have made contact with Santander either by telephone, letter or 
attending a branch.
I also appreciate Mr A says he made a double payment in August 2020 of £20 to cover the 
missed payment in July 2020. I have looked at Santanders records and cant see that 
payment only a £10 payment. But in any event, I have made clear that I think the 
arrangement was broken by the missed second payment and Mr A ought reasonably 
contacted Santander and checked what the position was in the light of that missed payment 
and not assumed the agreement would continue.
Overall, Im satisfied that Santander made clear to Mr A that it had concerns about his 
account and that it tried to help him by refunding fees and by agreeing a plan. I find that Mr A 
broke the agreement and made no contact with Santander until some months after, by which 
point, Im satisfied the relationship between him and Santander had broken down. Im also 
satisfied that Santander was entitled to register a default in these circumstances and so I 
cant fairly order it to remove it from Mr As credit file. I dont think there was ever a six-month 
plan set up and have not seen any evidence on Santanders records that it agreed to call Mr 
A after the plan had been set up.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman