DRN-3057262
The complaint
 Mrs J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund payments made using 
several debit cards that she says she didnt authorise. 
What happened
 Mrs J holds a current account with NatWest. She received a large inheritance in to her 
account, but soon after noticed several transactions she didnt recognise. She reported 
these to NatWest, who gave her a new card and PIN.
But the transactions continued on the new card  in all transactions happened across three 
cards over the course of two years. Some card transactions were to an online retailer, and 
some were ATM withdrawals or chip and PIN payments. There was also a direct debit that 
Mrs J didnt recognise.
Some of the transactions were funded using transfers from her savings account to her 
current account made using her online banking.
Mrs J reported them to NatWest, and some transactions were refunded. Mrs J raised a 
complaint with NatWest but was told that she would need to raise fraud claims with the 
retailers. They also said the transfers from the savings account to her current account were 
carried out using her online login details. NatWest didnt think theyd done anything wrong 
and declined to refund the transactions. 
Mrs J referred this to our service, but one of our investigators noticed Mrs J had referred to 
transactions that didnt seem to be included in the original response. He passed this on to 
the bank to look in to. NatWest looked in to things again including the additional 
transactions, but felt they were correct to decline the claim saying it didnt match a pattern of 
fraud.
Unhappy with this answer, Mrs J referred the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked in to what happened. He found out that Mrs J had allowed a 
family member to use her first card to make an online transaction. She said she hadnt given 
them the physical card and hadnt given any of the cards to anyone to use. She didnt 
believe her family were responsible for the transactions. Her banking details werent shared 
with anyone, but she kept them at home under her mattress. 
The investigator contacted the online retailer, who were able to confirm that some of the 
transactions were made on an account that matched Mrs Js email address. But others were 
not.
The investigator felt it was more likely than not someone close to Mrs J made the 
transactions, as they wouldve needed to access three separate cards and return them to 
her. He said Mrs Js actions in cancelling the cards were consistent with someone who didnt 
know the transactions were happening. He felt it was likely Mrs J had allowed a third party to 
use the first card to make transactions, which meant she had given them apparent 
authority to do so. While the third party may have made more transactions than agreed with 
Mrs J, he felt it was fair for NatWest to hold Mrs J liable for them.
For the subsequent two cards he felt that it was likely Mrs J had agreed to let someone else 
use the card, so the payments made with the physical card were likely authorised in some 
way. He couldnt see a reasonable explanation of how a third party would be able to get hold 
of Mrs Js card and PIN otherwise. 
But he felt it was plausible that Mrs J hadnt agreed to the payments made online  and as 
Mrs J had taken steps to cancel her card and protect her account the apparent authority no 
longer applied. As the online payments were distance contracts, he felt NatWest were liable 
for refunding them.
The investigator felt the disputed direct debit payment was likely a legitimate payment for 
Mrs Js mobile phone, so didnt think it was unfair for NatWest to decline to refund this. He 
also said Mrs J had raised the disputes with NatWest at the time, so it wasnt fair for the 
bank to say she hadnt.
Overall the investigator suggested NatWest refund Mrs J the online payments made with the 
second and third cards and add 8% simple interest.
After consideration NatWest agreed. Mrs J disagreed saying most of the disputed 
transactions happened on the first card, and she didnt think shed done anything wrong. But 
she accepted the direct debit was for a legitimate phone contract.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The investigator in this case wrote a detailed assessment that set out the full facts, disputed 
transactions, relevant considerations and the timeline of events. Mrs J and NatWest have 
both had a chance to review this, so Im not going to repeat every detail here and instead 
concentrate on the parts most relevant to my decision.
Mrs J has disputed many transactions over several years, so Ive not provided a finding on 
every single one individually. But I want to assure Mrs J I have considered every aspect of 
her complaint. Ive also noted shes accepted the direct debit was for a legitimate phone 
contract, so I havent made a finding on this.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I have to make my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  as in what I think more likely than not happened.
NatWest have raised some concerns that some of the transactions were disputed over 13 
months after they were made. 
Ordinarily this may mean Mrs J wouldnt be entitled to a refund. But looking back through the 
history of this case, I believe a number of disputed transactions werent raised by NatWest at 
the time, even though Mrs J contacted them about these. This became apparent when Mrs J 
first contacted our service, and NatWest let us know they hadnt investigated these. So, I 
dont think its fair for NatWest to rely on this. 
Payments made using the first cardImportant to my decision about what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint, are the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the PSR 2009) and 2017 (the PSR 
2017) which apply to transactions like the ones Mrs J disputes. 
The PSR 2009 applied to transactions made before 13 January 2018, and the PSR 2017 
apply to transactions made on or after that date. Among other things the PSR 2017 includes 
the following (similar wording was used in the PSR 2009, Regulation 55): 
Regulation 67 of the PSR 2017 says: 
67. (1) A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the payer 
for the purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its consent to 
(a) the execution of the payment transaction; or 
(b) the execution of a series of payment transactions of which that payment 
transaction forms part. 
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, banks 
will be liable for unauthorised payments. 
But if Mrs J made the disputed transactions herself or authorised for them to be made on her 
behalf, it would not be fair to ask NatWest to refund them. Mrs J has explained that she did 
not make them herself and she did not know that the transactions were being made. But Im 
sorry to have to tell Mrs J that this doesnt automatically mean that those transactions are 
unauthorised and that they should be refunded to her.
Its possible for Mrs J to give someone else authority to make transactions on her behalf  
and it follows that she would then be responsible for them. This is the case even if this 
person carried out more transactions than Mrs J agreed to or expected. This is whats known 
as apparent authority. If the payer has allowed a third party to make use of their payment 
instrument so that to the bank it looks like the payment transaction has been authorised by 
the payer, then the payment can be considered authorised for the purposes of the PSRs.
In this particular case Mrs J has accepted she allowed a family member to use her card to 
make online purchases. The bank has provided the technical evidence that the online 
transactions were made using Mrs Js correct card details. 
Its more likely than not here that Mrs Js family member abused this and used these details 
for more transactions than Mrs J may have expected. But by providing them with the card 
details, Mrs J had in effect authorised the further payments they went on to make. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest Mrs J took steps to prevent further use of her card details up 
until she reported the transactions to NatWest. And Im satisfied that the banks terms and 
conditions say Mrs J would need to keep her payment details safe and shouldnt be shared 
with anyone. So, in this regard Im satisfied that its fair for NatWest to hold Mrs J liable for 
these transactions.
Its less clear how a third party would carry out the ATM withdrawals. While its possible the 
card could have been taken and replaced by someone close to her, there doesnt appear to 
be a reasonable explanation of how theyd also come to know the PIN. 
The PIN had been issued some considerable time before the disputed transactions started. 
And there isnt any record of a PIN reminder being sent, or the PIN being changed since the 
account was opened five years previously. Mrs J is adamant she didnt share the physical 
card and PIN with anyone  although she has said she kept her banking details under her 
mattress.The pattern of transactions here also doesnt suggest fraud. Mrs J has highlighted irregular 
ATM withdrawals. But there are also withdrawals she doesnt dispute in between. And there 
are occasions where there are undisputed chip and PIN payments on the same day as and 
nearby to disputed withdrawals. 
This suggests Mrs J had the card that day  so it seems less likely somebody would be able 
to take the card from her and replace it without her noticing.
Its possible someone close to Mrs J oversaw her enter her PIN, and later took the card to 
use. However, this wouldnt explain why Mrs J didnt notice the significant reduction in the 
account balance when she made balance enquiries at the ATMs during transactions she 
doesnt dispute. 
This leads me to conclude that its more likely than not the transactions at the ATMs were 
carried out either by Mrs J, or by someone acting on her behalf. There isnt another 
reasonable explanation of how someone could come to know the PIN and use the card so 
regularly that she wasnt aware of it. 
For the purposes of the PSRs this would mean the payments were authorised, and on that 
basis, I think its fair for NatWest to hold her liable for these transactions.
Ive also considered the transfers from the savings account, using the online banking. 
Similarly, to the PIN, there isnt a clear explanation of how someone could come to learn her 
online banking details. Mrs J says she didnt share them with anyone. But again, its difficult 
to see how somebody unknown could gain access considering the information they would 
have needed. 
Mrs J has suggested her home computer had her banking details saved, which may explain 
how someone was able to gain access. But by leaving her banking details on the computer 
and not removing them this would lead me to conclude that any transactions would be 
treated as apparently authorised. And in any case the transfers from the savings account all 
go to the current account, so do not cause her a direct loss.
Overall, I think its more likely than not Mrs J allowed someone else to use the account. Im 
satisfied that its fair for NatWest to hold Mrs J liable for the disputed transactions on the first 
card, and up to when she first reported them.
Transactions on the second and third card
Ive considered the transactions on these cards separately, as they occur after Mrs J cancels 
her first card. At that point she ought reasonably to be aware that someone else was trying 
to make use of her cards, so she may need to take additional steps to protect her account. 
Mrs Js actions in cancelling the first card and attempting to raise disputes with NatWest 
does suggest she had concerns about the activity on her account. And she cancelled the 
second card shortly after it was received, once it was used for several online transactions 
she disputes.
However, Im unsure why she didnt then continue to keep an eye on her account, and there 
are numerous transactions afterwards  including online transactions, ATM withdrawals and 
chip and PIN transactions.
Again, the circumstances that someone other than Mrs J would come to know her PIN arent 
clear. Mrs J says she didnt share the details or card with anyone else. Although when both the second and third cards were sent to her, new PINs were also sent. Its possible someone 
close to Mrs J may have intercepted these and learnt the PIN. 
But looking at the transactions they again dont fit a pattern of fraud. There are infrequent 
ATM withdrawals, generally for low amounts when there was significantly more money 
available. These are usually preceded by a balance enquiry  which is the same as the ATM 
withdrawals Mrs J doesnt dispute. If Mrs J herself was making the undisputed transactions, 
then I would expect her to notice the balance changing over time. 
A thief would also have needed to have taken and replaced Mrs Js cards dozens of times 
without her noticing. This seems unlikely.
The chip and PIN transactions are also generally for low values. I can also see that one 
transaction verified by chip and PIN was refunded by the merchant. This strikes me as an 
unusual thing for a fraudster or thief to request, as they usually wouldnt care about money 
being returned if its not theirs.
For the transactions made using the physical card I think its more likely than not these were 
made by Mrs J or someone acting on her behalf. Its possible shes simply forgotten these 
transactions over time. But Im not satisfied they are unauthorised, so dont believe its up to 
NatWest to refund them.
The payments made online, however, its likely these were unauthorised. We know that Mrs 
J had previously reported similar transactions as unauthorised, which I wouldnt expect if she 
knew about or agreed to them. And because shed cancelled her first card, this would break 
the apparent authority. 
After the second card was cancelled there were further failed attempts to use these details, 
which suggests to me whoever was attempting the transactions didnt know the card had 
been cancelled. 
While the online retailer has confirmed some of these transactions happened on her 
account, we also know some happened on a different account. This tends to support Mrs Js 
story. Shes also been consistent in saying she didnt agree to these payments, and Im 
persuaded shes telling the truth in this matter. 
I think its likely in the circumstances they were completed by someone close to her who 
could access her replacement cards and used the card details without Mrs Js knowledge. 
On that basis Im satisfied they were unauthorised.
The terms of Mrs Js account say that NatWest will refund any unauthorised payments made 
at distance  for example over the phone or online. I think then its reasonable for NatWest 
to refund these.  
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Refund the unauthorised online and distance payments made using Mrs Js second 
and third cards, which have not already been refunded
Add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement
If HMRC require income take to be paid on the above interest NatWest should provide a 
certificate showing how much was taken, should Mrs J ask for one.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman