DRN-3714462
The complaint
Miss C has complained about Highway Insurance Company Limited which insured her 
conversion camper van, which suffered fire damage during a vandalism attack.
What happened
Miss C had bought a van and converted it into a camper. She was part was through 
re-painting the exterior and hadnt completed the electrical system for the living area when 
the van was damaged. But the inside was finished to a good standard and the van was 
mechanically sound. Highways though felt the van wasnt in a good condition even before 
the fire and that given the fire damage, it was uneconomical to repair. It said its final offer in 
settlement for the van was £3,000. Miss C felt it was worth much more than that  that what 
she felt was minor cosmetic issues and the outstanding paintwork, wouldnt so drastically 
affect its value. Miss C complained to us.
Our Investigator noted that the trade guides often used by this service to assist in 
determining values for damaged vehicles, couldnt help in this instance. He noted that both 
Miss C and Highway had presented a number of adverts for converted camper vans which 
they felt supported their view of the value for the insured van. Our Investigator initially felt 
that the general details of Miss Cs van suggested that in terms of its value, and based on 
two of the many adverts seen, it would likely fairly sit at £4,5000. 
But Highway provided detail in reply from its engineer regarding the non-fire related repairs 
needed for Miss Cs van. Highway showed theyd have cost over £6,000 to fix. So it said it 
felt that would likely affect the market value of Miss Cs van, likely at least by around 25% of 
the repair cost. So, in its view, its offer of £3,000, representing a reduction of 25% of the cost 
on non-fire relate repairs, from the £4,500 value given by our Investigator, was fair and 
reasonable. 
In light of the new evidence our Investigator felt Highways settlement of £3,000 was fair and 
reasonable. Miss C maintained her initial argument, refuting that the damage noted by 
Highway would affect the overall value of the van. She presented evidence from her 
mechanic to attest that the van had been in good running order and she, and her mechanic, 
said that was more important than first impressions that might be created given the cosmetic 
finish of the van. The complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our Investigator explained, the trade guides that often assist us with valuing vehicles cant 
help on this occasion. So the sale prices for similar vehicles need to be considered and 
comparisons made. That is a somewhat subjective approach. And I appreciate that for 
Miss C, who has worked on her camper and believes all of it to be good quality, it will be 
hard to accept anyone elses view as to what a reasonable comparison vehicle, and 
therefore value, is. That said, I note that in initially responding to our Investigators view, 
Miss C accepted that the two adverts he referred to did equate to reasonable comparisons 
taken from the adverts available from the time of the loss. 
Ive carefully considered all of the adverts presented. And I also think the two referenced by 
our Investigator are the most reasonably comparable, giving the best indication of what, if 
there were no significant non-fire related repairs needed to Miss C camper, her van would 
have been worth. 
The first advert was presented by Highway for a van similar to Miss Cs but one year older 
and having done 50,000 more miles. The other advert, presented by Miss C, was for a van 
slightly younger than hers which had done around 25,000 miles less. I think it is fair to say 
that age and mileage are two factors that contribute significantly to the value of vehicles. The 
first advert was for £3,500 and the other for £5,555. So, given that the age and mileage of 
Miss Cs van sat somewhere almost in the middle of these two examples, I think valuing it in 
the middle makes sense too. Therefore, and setting the pre-existing damage aside for a 
moment, £4,500 is, I think, a fair and reasonable value for Miss Cs camper van. 
But the pre-existing damage does need to be taken account of. I can see that Miss C has put 
a lot of work into this conversion and that the camper van clearly means a lot to her. I can 
understand why she takes the view that she does about its condition and respective value. 
I note her mechanic sees things similarly. However, neither she nor her mechanic have the 
same kind of valuation expertise as Highways engineer. And nor, given their involvement in 
renovating the van, are they able to view the camper van from a removed perspective, as 
Highways engineer can. Highways engineer believes that the non-fire related damage will 
likely have an impact on the value for the van, and I dont doubt what he says.
I accept that if people viewing the camper van, if it were for sale, were prepared to go 
beyond first impressions they might well have found a good, lovingly converted, well 
maintained vehicle which just happened to be in the middle of some upgrade work. And they 
might have been prepared to pay in the region of what Miss C would have wanted for the 
camper. But equally many people would have been put off by the paintwork alone. Such that 
they wouldnt have looked at it any further and that would immediately narrow the field of 
prospective buyers. That often makes a vehicle harder to sell and more likely to be subject to 
reductions from the sale price asked for. Accepting, as I have, that the fair market value for 
Miss Cs camper van in good pre-existing condition, was £4,500, I think its reasonable to 
say that the work needed on it would mean it would likely only sell for around £1,500 less 
than that. 
Id add that when this service looks at complaints that involve pre-existing damage to 
vehicles, we often accept that the vehicles value will be negatively affected by around 50% 
of the repair cost for the pre-existing, non-claim related damage. Here Highways offer, 
against a value of £4,500, only equates to a deduction of 25% of the repair value. I think that 
recognises the sometimes competitive market for this type of vehicle, alongside the fact that 
as an older vehicle the cost of fixing the pre-existing damage will likely have less of an 
impact on the vehicles value (than it would if it were younger). 
So whilst I accept that this will disappoint Miss C, I do think Highway acted fairly and 
reasonably in offering £3,000 in settlement for her camper van. As such Im not upholding 
this complaint or asking Highway to make any further settlement.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Highway Insurance Company 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman