DRN-4212081
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained  on behalf of Mr Ss late mothers estate  about how Co-op 
Funeral Plans Limited dealt with arranging her funeral.
What happened
Mr Ss mother  whom Ill call M, to distinguish her from her daughter in law  died in early 
2023.  Many years before her death, M had purchased a funeral bond from Co-op to cover 
the cost of her funeral when the need arose.
Mr and Mrs S contacted the funeral director from whom M had bought the bond.  They 
collected M and made an appointment for a few days later for Mr and Mrs S to make the 
funeral arrangements.
At the appointment, Mr and Mrs S handed over the bond.  The funeral directors said it didnt 
relate to a Co-op product and couldnt be used for payment.  Mr and Mrs S were very 
distressed by this, and by the fact they felt the funeral directors were implying they were 
trying to use the bond fraudulently.  So they left the meeting. 
Mr and Mrs S contacted Co-ops head office.  The head office confirmed the bond was valid 
and took further details.  Mr and Mrs S provided these and also raised a complaint about 
how theyd been treated.
Mr and Mrs S called the head office again the following day.  They were told that, 
notwithstanding what the funeral director had said about the bond, theyd started the 
redemption process.  Mr and Mrs S werent happy about this, because their experience 
meant they didnt want that funeral director to deal with Ms funeral.  Co-op arranged for the 
bond to be transferred to another funeral director, who conducted Ms funeral.
Co-op sent Mr and Mrs S a written response to their complaint.  They said Ms bond was an 
old plan  but that the funeral directors could easily have confirmed it was valid by calling 
them.  They offered Mr and Mrs S £100 compensation for this.  In response to an additional 
complaint raised about starting the redemption, Co-op said this was the right thing to do to 
ascertain the plan was valid.
Mr and Mrs S werent satisfied with Co-ops response and brought the complaint to our 
service.  Our investigator confirmed that we can only make an award to the person our rules 
say is an eligible complainant.  She said the eligible complainant in this case is Ms estate.  
So she couldnt comment on the compensation Co-op had offered Mr and Mrs S because we 
have no power to award them any redress in their personal capacities - despite the obvious 
upset theyd been caused.
The investigator did explain she could consider whether what had happened had reduced 
the value of the plan M had bought.  But, having done that, she couldnt say this had 
happened here as the services paid for had been carried out in line with the plan M had 
selected.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding the complaint Mr and Mrs S have made on behalf of Ms 
estate.  Ill explain why.
Its clear from everything Ive read that Mr and Mrs S were extremely upset by their 
experience and that it made a very difficult time even more distressing.  Its not my intention 
to downplay that in any way.  But, as our investigator has explained, we can only look at the 
complaints were permitted to by the Dispute Resolution: (Complaints) (DISP) section of 
the FCA Handbook.    
DISP says we can only consider a complaint that is made an eligible complaint.  The eligible 
complainant in this case is Ms estate.  So we can only award redress (if we consider it 
appropriate) to Ms estate  not to Mr and Mrs S personally.
Nor can I address the issue of delay raised by Mr and Mrs S in their response to the 
investigators view.  DISP limits our jurisdiction to considering complaints where the business 
complained of has first had the opportunity to respond itself.  I cant see thats the case here.  
So, if Mr and Mrs S want to pursue that issue, they will need to do so by way of a separate 
complaint to Co-op. 
I can see our investigator also explained that we could consider whether the value of the 
plan M bought had been diminished.  However, she concluded that it hadnt been in this 
instance.  Mr and Mrs S say that it was diminished, because the plan wasnt only sold as a 
product to pay the costs of the funeral, but also to reduce the emotional and financial burden 
on families at a difficult time.
Ive thought carefully about this.  Mr and Mrs S appear to have based their position on      
Co-ops marketing material from the time M bought the policy.  I appreciate why theyve 
done that.  But the marketing material doesnt set out what the plan covered.  
I can only say the value of the plan has been diminished if not all of what M bought was 
covered.  And I have to bear in mind that the plan was purchased over 20 years before M 
died.  Its inevitable that a business such as Co-op will change what it offers its customers 
over that period.  And that means its likely that some changes to the detail of the plan will 
have to happen to deliver a funeral.
Neither party has been able to provide me with the details of what M bought over 20 years 
ago.  Given the passage of time, I dont think thats unreasonable.  Co-op have confirmed 
that, in these circumstances, they provide a funeral in line with their current Silver plan.
A summary of whats provided in the Silver plan is available on Co-ops website.  Ive not 
seen anything which leads me to conclude the plan wasnt delivered in line with those terms.  
Mr and Mrs S have alluded to this causing difficulties.  But theyve also said these difficulties 
were overcome.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S have said M bought a plan so that everything was sorted out.  I 
dont dispute that was the case.  But that doesnt always guarantee that nothing untoward 
will happen.  From what Mr and Mrs S have told us, Im satisfied that Co-op did what was needed to provide M with a funeral equivalent to the one she planned when she bought her 
bond.  
Mr and Mrs S have suggested there was some impropriety in the funeral directors starting 
the redemption of the bond.  Co-op have said that was the right course of action.  Its not my 
role to judge whether the funeral directors followed the right process  its to look at how Co-
op handled the complaint.  While I accept Mr and Mrs S have expressed reservations, Im 
satisfied that they addressed this point within that complaints handling process  and did so 
within the eight weeks DISP allows businesses to respond.
Im sorry Mr and Mrs S were upset by how they were treated by the funeral directors.  Its 
open to them to pursue those concerns further if they wish to by contacting the National 
Association of Funeral Directors (NAFD).  But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
Co-op need to do anything further to resolve their complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding the complaint Mr and Mrs S have made on 
behalf of Ms estate about Co-op Funeral Plans Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman