DRN-3188408
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc made multiple errors when handling a request to 
alter a direct debit on his personal loan account.
What happened
In early 2021, Mr M told HSBC that he wanted to change the bank account that was set up 
to pay his loan. He was told hed need to submit a new direct debit (DD) mandate. 
Mr M complains that HSBC;
sent him an incorrect DD mandate on two occasions;
told him hed have to set the DD up through his other bank which was incorrect 
information;
failed to action the DD in a timely manner once the correct mandate had been 
submitted in branch;
cancelled his existing DD without notifying him which, had he not realised in time, 
couldve resulted in a missed payment.
Mr M says he spent a lot of time on the phone and in branch trying to resolve this matter, 
which went on for approximately four months. HSBC has paid a total of £300 compensation, 
but Mr M doesnt think this fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience hes been caused. 
So he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She acknowledged that HSBC has provided 
poor customer service here, which Mr M should be compensated for. But she was satisfied 
the amount paid already was fair and in line with what our service wouldve awarded. So she 
didnt think HSBC needed to do anything more to put things right. As Mr M didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that HSBC made errors when handling Mr Ms request. It acknowledges 
that it sent out the wrong form and it didnt process things as quickly as it should have. So I 
dont need to determine whether HSBC has done something wrong  it accepts it has. What 
I need to decide is whether HSBC has done enough to put things right. 
Our service can make awards of compensation where we see that a business has done 
something wrong or unfair. But when we do so, it isnt intended to punish or fine the 
business for what it did wrong. Its recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to 
the customer, and it should be a proportionate reflection of the impact the businesss actions 
have had.
Im aware that Mr M raised his complaint points separately, as and when HSBC made an 
error. As such, HSBC paid compensation on three separate occasions  which totalled £300. 
Our service doesnt award compensation for each individual mistake. Instead, we take a 
holistic view of everything thats happened and make an award based on the overall impact.
Based on what Ive seen, Im in no doubt that HSBCs actions have caused Mr M 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. There are clear failings in the customer service 
provided which went on for approximately four months before it was resolved.  
 
I also appreciate Mr Ms concern that HSBC cancelled his existing DD without letting him 
know, which couldve resulted in a missed payment. And whilst our service wouldnt look to 
award compensation for what could have happened or any hypothetical losses, I 
acknowledge the additional distress this caused him at the time along with the 
inconvenience of having to make a manual payment to his loan account. 
Ive thought about what I wouldve awarded Mr M had HSBC made no offer to compensate 
him, taking into account the individual circumstances of this complaint and our approach to 
compensation. Having done so, Im satisfied £300 fairly reflects what went wrong, the impact 
this had and the length of time it took to be resolved. So Im not asking HSBC to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman