DRN-4000616
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about the quality of works carried out by Aviva Insurance Limiteds 
agents in relation to a claim made under their home insurance (buildings) policy.
Aviva is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As Aviva has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in 
my decision, any reference to Aviva includes the actions of the agent.
What happened
In 2018, Aviva arranged for Mr and Mrs Rs driveway to be replaced, after they made an 
accidental damage claim under their home insurance policy. A few years later, Mr and Mrs R 
told Aviva the new driveway was crumbling due to it being laid in extremely hot conditions 
and the builders not washing it down in the days after it was finished. 
Aviva arranged for another driveway to be laid. However, after this was done, Mr R raised 
concerns about its quality. 
Aviva arranged for the site to be visited by its contractors. Mr R raised concerns about the 
visit. He was unhappy that they wouldnt agree to replace the whole driveway. He said the 
manager who attended was arrogant and sarcastic.
Aviva arranged for one of its surveyors to visit, who suggested Mr R get two independent 
quotes from local builders so that rectification work could be carried out. However, this didnt 
resolve the matter for Mr R who believed the whole driveway needed replacing and didnt 
feel it was up to him to get quotes.
Aviva didnt agree that the whole driveway needed replacing. It offered to pay Mr and Mrs R 
£347.88 (including VAT) to have the repairs carried out. It also offered £150 to compensate 
them for the inconvenience they had incurred due to the driveway requiring repairs. 
There was further correspondence between Mr R and Aviva. Mr R provided photographs 
showing crumbling concrete on the driveway. He did not wish to accept the cash settlement 
as he felt Aviva should be able to arrange for a different company or crew of builders to 
rectify the driveway. He also raised concerns that Aviva had put forward an idea to bring in 
an independent person or body to look at the driveway and had quickly withdrawn the offer. 
Aviva increased its cash settlement offer by £50 to cover repairs of crumbling concrete, 
which it said was a minor issue. It later offered Mr R £25 to apologise for some confusion 
regarding an agreement to send an independent expert to view the driveway. It said it would 
not be doing this as it had already provided a sufficiently qualified expert of its own and had 
full confidence in his professional opinion. 
Mr R remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider his concerns. Our investigator 
looked into the matter and concluded that Aviva didnt need to do anything further. She 
thought Avivas offer of a cash settlement and compensation for distress and inconvenience 
was reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs R disagreed with our investigators outcome. They said they were not only 
unhappy with the service theyd received from Aviva but also the quality of the repair work 
and bullying. They said that on two occasions Aviva had offered to bring out an independent 
body / person to inspect the quality / safety of the drive and had backed out at the last 
minute. It wasnt an oversight because a cost was being discussed. Avivas building 
contractor had put the wrong pattern on the drive which caused a health and safety issue. 
Mr and Mrs R said they had not stopped Avivas contractors attending and carrying out the 
work, but they did not want the original company attending due to poor workmanship and 
safety issues. They said Aviva employ other building companies that are based within 
travelling distance. However, they were no longer prepared to accept Aviva sending out a 
contractor for the rectification of the driveway. They require a complete, new driveway as 
Aviva caused the problem in the first place.
As Mr and Mrs R have disagreed with our investigators outcome, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs R I have considered all of their points, even if Ive not 
addressed each of them individually. Ive focused on what I believe is most relevant to the 
outcome of their complaint.
I must explain that Im not an expert on driveway construction. Nor do I need to be to fairly 
decide this complaint. Ive needed to consider if Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably, in line 
with the terms of the policy.
The terms of the policy say:
We can choose to settle your claim by
replacing
reinstating
repairing
payment
From what I can see, Aviva chose to replace Mr and Mrs Rs driveway after their claim in 
2018. It acknowledged issues with this driveway, so it replaced it again in 2022.
Mr R raised several concerns with the quality of the new driveway. These dont appear to be 
disputed by Aviva. However, Mr R says the whole driveway needs replacing, while Aviva 
says it can be repaired. 
I recognise that Mr R is of the opinion the whole driveway needs to be replaced. However, 
this isnt something Im able to determine from the pictures hes provided. Ive no reason to 
doubt the expertise of Avivas surveyor who said the issues could be resolved by repairs. 
And Ive seen no independent evidence to contradict what the surveyor has said.I appreciate Mr R is unhappy that he was led to believe Aviva would be arranging for an 
independent body to inspect the driveway. However, Aviva has apologised for its 
miscommunication regarding this and offered £25 compensation. I think this is reasonable.
Before it made the cash settlement offer, Aviva gave Mr R the opportunity to get his own 
quotes from local builders. I appreciate Mr R felt it wasnt up to him to do that and he wanted 
Aviva to arrange for the work to be completed. However, the terms of the policy allow Aviva 
to decide how to settle the claim. So, I think Avivas suggestion for Mr R to get independent 
quotes was a reasonable way forward.
As Mr R didnt obtain his own quotes, Aviva arranged for its own contractors to produce a 
quote and based its cash settlement offer on this. I think this was reasonable under the 
circumstances.
Mr R has commented that Aviva tried to bully him and Mrs R to accept a small repair 
compensation figure. In its letter responding to his complaint dated July 2022, Aviva said it 
was willing to consider quotes from Mr Rs own contractor.  However, I cant see that Mr R 
did this or has provided any other evidence to show that Avivas offer isnt sufficient to rectify 
the issues with the driveway. 
Mr R has also complained that he was bullied when Avivas contractors came to assess the 
driveway after he first complained about the quality of the work. However, Ive no way of 
knowing what was said during the visit or how it was said. So, I dont have sufficient 
evidence to conclude that the contractors representatives acted inappropriately.
I appreciate it was frustrating and upsetting for Mr and Mrs R to find that their driveway 
wasnt of a satisfactory standard. However, Im satisfied that Aviva has made reasonable 
efforts to put things right. And I think the £150 its offered fairly recognises the distress and 
inconvenience they experienced as a result of this.
Mr and Mrs R also raised concerns that Aviva wouldnt allow them to use their legal 
expenses insurance for this dispute. However, the terms of their legal expenses insurance 
policy specifically exclude disputes between them and Aviva. So, I cant see that Aviva has 
done anything wrong here.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs R, but I think Avivas offer to put 
things right is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
Aviva should honour its offer to pay Mr and Mrs R a cash settlement of £397.88 plus £175 
for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £572.88 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mr and Mrs R £572.88.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman