DRN-2962496
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that HDI Global Specialty SE unfairly declined a claim they made on 
their ten-year building warranty policy, for cracking to render.
What happened
In 2018, Mr and Mrs B purchased a property which was about 18 months old. The property 
has a ten-year building warranty policy, underwritten by HDI. In 2020, Mr and Mrs B noted 
the render on the rear of their property had cracked.
Mr and Mrs B were informed by the render manufacturer that its product came with its own 
ten-year warranty. However, because the render wasnt applied by an approved contractor, 
no such warranty was given. Therefore, Mr and Mrs B made a claim on their building 
warranty policy.
During years 3-10, part 3 of the policy applies. Part 3 covers major physical damage if its 
been caused by the developer not complying with HDIs requirements. The claim also 
needs to exceed the policy excess.
The policy defines major physical damage as: A material change in the physical condition 
of a load bearing element of the new home from its intended physical condition which 
adversely affects its structural stability or resistance to damp and water penetration.
The policy defines requirements as: The requirements contained within the technical 
manual issued by us and in force at the time...
The policy excess is £1,000 at the policy start date. However, it increases in accordance with 
the House Rebuilding Cost Index published by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. 
So, at the time of a claim, the excess is £1,000 plus the indexed increase.
HDI appointed a surveyor. A report was produced in July 2020, which contained the 
following findings:
- A crack is visible to the silicon render, but theres no water ingress in the nearby 
rooms. The water ingress is in the cavity.
- The property is a timber frame construction. The timber frame is the structural 
element, not the external facade.
- Theres excessive movement to the cementitious board. Throughout the crack line 
the scrim mesh appears to have a poor/no bond to the basecoat.
- The cementitious board requires correct fixings to ensure no movement; the scrim 
mesh requires correctly bonding with adhesive; and the silicon render requires a 
patch repair. The repair estimate is less than £1,000.
HDI went on to decline the claim. HDI explained the claim didnt meet the policy definition of 
major physical damage, and nor did the repair cost exceed the claim excess. HDI explained 
there isnt any water entering the property internally, and any water getting into the cavity 
through the crack is being drained away. It said there isnt any damage to load bearing 
elements.
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, but he didnt think it should 
be upheld. Because Mr and Mrs B disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. In response to our investigators findings, they made the following points:
- The incorrect specification for the render product was used. A different specification 
should have been used, to allow for the expansion and contraction of the timber 
frame. 
- The developer and HDI cant provide the specification used for the render. HDI has 
confirmed it didnt inspect the property prior to completion, and to off-set the risk, it 
charged the developer a higher rate. Mr and Mrs B consider that in such 
circumstances, HDI should cover any problems that arise.
- The developer built eight timber frame properties on the site. The developer has re-
rendered two after the homeowners made claims during the first two years of their 
policies, under part 2 of the cover. Two others (including Mr and Mrs Bs property) 
are now experiencing similar issues. So, half of the timber frame properties have 
had a problem with the render.
- Mr and Mrs B now have more render cracking to the rear of their property, and when 
the property heats up, they can see issues with the render at the front. They say all 
the render needs inspecting, with the possibility of it all needing to be replaced.
Mr and Mrs B also provided comments from a sub-contractor who worked on the original 
build. He made the following points:
- The cracking is bad, with large gaps. Its a significant breach of the propertys ability 
to withstand weather.
- Mr and Mrs Bs application of tape to the damage was important, as the membrane 
applied to the timber frame, behind the render system, isnt designed to be the rain 
screen. In the absence of the temporary repairs the building wouldnt be watertight.
- The damage is not just aesthetic, nor of minor significance. He would be surprised if 
any experienced or knowledgeable building professional would class it as anything 
other than major physical damage.
- In his opinion, the cost of the repair is well in excess of £1,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have noted theres now more render cracking to the rear of their property, and 
they can see issues with the render at the front. However, these are new matters they need 
to raise with HDI in the first instance. Im only considering the crack that was assessed by 
HDI in July 2020, along with the supporting evidence the parties presented about that 
particular claim.HDI is of the view a localised repair can be undertaken, and the cost would be less than the 
policy excess. Mr and Mrs B say more significant remedial action is required. I havent seen 
anything that leads me to believe a localised repair wouldnt be effective. But equally, HDI 
hasnt provided an itemised schedule of works to show what a localised repair would cost. 
In any event, for a part 3 claim, before the remedial solution and costs are considered, the 
policy definition for major physical damage needs to be met. If the definition is met, the 
damage also needs to have been caused by the developer failing to comply with HDIs 
technical manual. 
Whilst the sub-contractor noted the damage couldnt be considered anything but major 
physical damage, whats important here is the specific major physical damage policy 
definition.
The first part of the policy definition requires a material change to the physical condition of a 
load bearing element. The second part requires the material change to affect the structural 
stability of the load bearing element, or its resistance to damp and water penetration.
Ive not seen anything that persuades me the render system is a load bearing element of the 
property. As I understand it, the renders primary function is weather proofing. If the cracked 
render is allowing rainwater to ingress, which in turn is damaging a load bearing element of 
the property, affecting that elements structural stability or water resistance, then the repair 
(including the render) may be covered under part 3. However, Ive not seen anything that 
suggests a load bearing element has been damaged, or is being damaged, due to water 
ingress via the crack in question.
The sub-contractor noted the property is only watertight due to temporary repairs. I havent 
seen that Mr and Mrs B have previously mentioned they had completed temporary repairs, 
so its not clear when those repairs were undertaken. HDIs surveyors report doesnt note 
temporary repairs had been carried out, and the report photos dont show tape had been 
applied to the crack. So, I dont consider it likely that the temporary repairs were in place 
before HDI investigated, and there wasnt any internal water damage found at that time. 
Therefore, overall, the sub-contractors comments dont persuade me that, but for the 
taping, a load bearing elements stability, or water resistance, would be affected.
Having seen photos of the crack that HDI considered, I can understand why Mr and Mrs B 
are concerned; and upset that their relatively new home has such issues. But even if the 
wrong render specification was used by the developer, and regardless of whether HDI 
recognised the property presented a higher risk of claims due to non-inspection, the 
requirements of the policy section being claimed under need to be met.
I appreciate that the developer may have re-rendered two properties after the homeowners 
made claims during the first two years of their policies, under part 2 of the cover. However, 
the developer remains responsible during the first two years of the policy, and importantly, 
the requirements of part 2 are different to part 3. Part 2 covers a material change in the 
physical condition of the home; part 2 isnt limited to load bearing elements.
Mr and Mrs B have also pointed towards HDIs surveyor mentioning excessive movement 
in his report. However, as I understand it, the cementitious board forms part of the render 
system that HDI considered required localised repairs, rather than it being a load bearing 
element.Mr and Mrs B also say their property has moved due to the expansion and contraction of the 
timber frame. They believe theres been major structural movement, and due to an incorrect 
render specification, the render product has cracked. However, Ive not seen any evidence 
that expansion and contraction of the timber frame is major physical damage  or that 
theres been major structural movement.
In conclusion, based on the information and evidence available at this time, I dont consider 
HDI unfairly declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim in July 2020. If the cracking at the rear of their 
property is now worse or more widespread, or if they have new issues at the front of the 
property, they can raise those matters with HDI.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman