DRN-3079695
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained about the way AXIS Specialty Europe SE handled a theft 
claim under Mr Ts holiday home insurance policy. 
What happened
In December 2020 Mr T made a claim to AXIS after being told about a burglary in his 
holiday home abroad. Mr T said the burglars took (amongst other things) all the electrical 
fittings, the kitchen units, the internal doors, the external windows and the front security 
door.
AXIS appointed a loss adjuster to handle the claim. The loss adjuster asked for a copy of 
the burglar alarm records for December 2020. It said it couldnt progress the claim without 
this information. 
As the security company wouldnt release this information to the loss adjuster, Mr T 
requested it several times without success.
AXIS said it was Mr Ts responsibility to make the property secure in the meantime. Mr T 
said this was difficult to arrange because he didnt have details of local contractors and 
couldnt travel out there due to Covid-19 travel restrictions. He also didnt have a local 
keyholder or neighbour who could help him.
As AXIS was still insisting on information from the alarm company in order for the claim to 
move forward, Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld 
it. She wasnt satisfied AXIS had treated them fairly in asking for evidence that wouldnt 
affect the decision to accept the claim as there werent any conditions in their policy about 
an alarm. She thought AXIS should consider the claim without the alarm records and pay 
£300 compensation for the trouble and upset it had caused. 
AXIS didnt agree with our investigators recommendation. It said it was prepared to 
consider the claim without the alarm records but it thought it was justified in asking for them. 
It didnt think it was liable to pay compensation.
Mr T said due to the delay in settling the claim, the metal shutters and air conditioning units 
had since been stolen from the property. He thought AXIS should pay for replacements as 
they might not have been stolen if AXIS had authorised emergency repairs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some insurance policies contain conditions that the policyholder must show theyve 
complied with before the insurer accepts the claim. These might require a policyholder to 
have a specific type of security in place. The loss adjuster told Mr T it needed sight of the 
alarm records to complete its investigation around compliance with the policy conditions. But 
the conditions in Mr Ts policy didnt specify anything about a burglar alarm system and 
theres no evidence in this case that Mr T was in breach of any conditions in his policy.
When taking out the policy, Mr T had told AXIS he had an operative alarm system. AXIS 
relied on that information when offering him cover. I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
that information was incorrect. On the contrary the report from the loss adjuster indicates 
that there was an operative alarm system. When describing the method of entry used by the 
thieves, the loss adjuster said:
To enter the house, they probably tampered with one of the alarm sensors fitted to the 
shutters.
Once inside the property, they disconnected the radio alarm unit.
I dont think the thieves would have bothered to disconnect the radio alarm unit if the burglar 
alarm system hadnt been working.
I can understand why AXIS would be concerned about the security company not responding 
to the fact that the alarm had been deactivated. If AXIS could prove negligence on the part 
of the alarm company, it might be able to recover some of the loss from it. But AXIS 
appeared to have no concerns about Mr T having suffered a genuine and fortuitous loss. So 
in my view it shouldnt have delayed the claim just because Mr T couldnt provide 
information which might have helped it to recover all or part of what it would pay out in 
respect of the claim. In order to treat Mr T fairly, AXIS should now consider the claim without 
the claim records.
The delay on the part of AXIS in considering the claim caused Mr and Mrs T a great deal of 
worry. They couldnt travel to their property at the time. It had been almost stripped bare and 
months had passed with hardly any progress on the claim because of the difficulty in 
obtaining the alarm records. I think its right that AXIS should pay them £300 for the trouble 
and upset caused by this.
Im sorry to hear that the metal shutters and air-conditioning units have since been stolen 
from the property. I note that a new claim has been set up in respect of this loss. I cant be 
sure whether or not this loss would have happened if AXIS had accepted the claim sooner, 
particularly as many holiday homes were known to be empty at a time when it was difficult 
for their owners to travel to them. Because of this uncertainty, I dont think it would be fair to 
require AXIS to be liable for this further loss as part of their original claim. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think AXIS should now consider the claim without the alarm records and 
pay compensation of £300 to Mr and Mrs T for the trouble and upset it caused them.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AXIS Specialty Europe SE to do what is set out in the 
section above headed Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman