DRN-3244902
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the interest he was asked to pay, following a payment holiday he took 
on his loan with Nationwide Building Society. He is also unhappy that a default has 
subsequently been applied. 
What happened
In March 2020, Mr K took out a personal loan with Nationwide with a 60-month term. The 
first repayment of approximately £250 was due at the end of April 2020. Unfortunately, Mr K 
contacted Nationwide before this to let them know that he had been financially impacted by 
the start of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
He was granted an initial three-month payment holiday (where he would only make nominal 
monthly payments of £1). This was then extended for a further three months. Mr K started 
working again before the end of this, and so resumed his monthly repayments after a      
five-month payment holiday. 
Prior to the end of this payment holiday, Nationwide say they contacted Mr K to tell him that 
they would need to re-write the loan, to extend the term, so to account for the missed 
payments and interest owed. They say they made it clear that failure to take any action could 
result in the account going into arrears, which could impact Mr Ks credit file. 
Nationwide say they sent Mr K a new loan agreement in September 2020, for a new 60-
month term. It included approximately £181 in extra interest. Nationwide say this was in 
large due to the payment holiday but that there was also approximately £14 of interest due to 
the extended term. 
Mr K was unhappy with this and didnt agree to the new loan agreement. He did continue to 
make his original contractual repayments but complained to Nationwide that he shouldnt 
have to pay more interest to repay arrears, that he had been entitled to build up under the 
Covid-19 relief. 
Nationwide responded in September 2020 to say that they felt it was fair to rewrite a new 
loan agreement to cover the repayments that Mr K had missed. Mr K continued to make only 
his contractual repayments and no new loan agreement was entered into. Nationwide say 
they applied a default to the account in February 2021, as arrears from the payment holiday 
had continued with no agreement to pay them off.
Mr K remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. 
Our investigator looked into it, he said that whilst he had sympathy for Mr K, the new 
proposed loan agreement had been fair and that Mr K could have overpaid before the end of 
the agreement, bringing down the interest payable. He felt the default had been applied fairly 
as there had been no agreement, despite several attempts by Nationwide. 
Mr K responded to say that he had accepted that he would need to pay interest for the 
period of the payment holiday, but that the further interest wasnt fair. He said that 
Nationwide hadnt properly explained the new agreement offered or given a breakdown of 
the interest that was payable. He also said that whilst he had missed attempted contact by 
Nationwide, they were calling him often and at a time with the stress of the ongoing 
pandemic and trying to work to pay what he owed. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K took out a personal loan with Nationwide in March 2020. It was for £13,000, to be 
repaid through 60 monthly repayments of approximately £235. In April 2020  before making 
his first repayment  Mr K told Nationwide his income had been impacted by the pandemic. 
Nationwide agree to a three-month Covid-related payment deferral, meaning Mr K would 
only need to pay £1 a month and his credit file wouldnt be adversely impacted. The payment 
deferral was later extended by a further three months. I find Nationwide treated Mr K fairly 
here. Ill explain why. 
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance which said borrowers 
impacted by the pandemic should be given a payment deferral  meaning they could make 
no, or only token, repayments. The guidance said, in brief, interest could still be charged, 
missed payments would need to be addressed at the end of the payment holiday in a 
pragmatic manner and adverse information shouldnt be reported to the credit reference 
agencies (CRAs). By offering Mr K a payment deferral Nationwide was acting in line with the 
FCAs guidance. 
When Mr Ks payment deferral was accepted Nationwide told him to address the missed 
payments:
At the end of the 3-month payment holiday, we will send you a new personal loan 
agreement which replaces the current agreement extending the term of your loan by three 
months to collect the additional payments. This agreement will be at the same rate of 
interest as your current loan.
Mr Ks payment deferral lasted from April to August 2020, with Mr K due to make 
repayments from September 2020. Nationwide sent Mr K a new loan agreement to sign. 
This was for £13,175.21 and the total amount payment was higher than that of the original 
loan. Mr K disputes the fairness of him being asked to pay more than was originally agreed. 
Having reviewed the two loan agreements as well as the account history, however, Im 
satisfied Nationwides figures are fair. As set out above, interest continued to be applied 
during Mr Ks payment deferral, and as this was at the very start of the loan term, all the 
capital was still owing. So, it stands to reason when the new loan came to be issued it would 
include the original capital plus the interest Mr K should have paid, but hadnt because of the 
payment deferral. 
As set out above, the missed payments during the payment deferral needed addressing. 
Nationwide decided to do this for customers by issuing new loans with extended terms. In 
Mr Ks circumstances I find this was fair and reasonable. It meant he didnt need to find a 
lump sum to clear the missed payments (approximately £1,175) or increase his monthly 
payments at an already difficult time for him financially. Additionally, the new loan had the 
same interest rate (so there was no material difference to the missed payments sitting within the new loan balance rather than as interest bearing missed payments) and it allowed for 
overpayments (meaning Mr K could have chosen to pay more to reduce the interest hed pay 
had he wanted to). In summary, Im satisfied Nationwide treated Mr K fairly and reasonably 
in relation to the missed payments. 
Mr K made his monthly repayments from September 2020, but he didnt take any action to 
address the missed payments  such as by accepting the new loan, making a lump sum 
payment or increasing his monthly repayments. He didnt work with Nationwide to find a 
solution either, despite a great deal of contact from it, including what were in my view clear 
explanations from Nationwide about why he was expected to pay the amount of interest he 
was. In February 2021, Nationwide defaulted the account. Mr K is understandably unhappy 
about this. But I find this was a fair and reasonable step for Nationwide to take given no 
material progress was being made to address the missed payments and the relationship 
appeared to have broken down. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman