DRN-2631083
The complaint
Miss J has complained that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A unfairly refused to pay her claim for the cancellation of her and her 
daughters holiday under their travel policy when their travelling companion became ill and 
was unable to go.
  
What happened
Miss J and her friend who I shall call Mrs P had decided to go on holiday together with their 
children due to take place in July 2019. Very sadly Mrs P was diagnosed with cancer in June 
2019 and had to start treatment right away. This meant their holiday needed to be cancelled.
Miss J bought her travel policy with Mapfre on 22 February 2019.
Miss J managed to get some costs back but made a claim to Mapfre for some 
accommodation costs. Mapfre investigated the medical condition of Mrs P. It decided that 
since she was being investigated for some pain since November 2018 and had been 
referred to a consultant for this pain the day before the policy was bought, it wouldnt cover 
her claim given the terms and conditions of the policy.
Miss J complained but Mapfre wouldnt change its stance. So, she brought her complaint to 
us. The investigator didnt uphold it, but he did think Mapfre should pay Miss J £100 
compensation for its delay in dealing with her claim.
Mapfre accepted the investigators recommendation but Miss J didnt. So, her complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint but for the compensation the investigator 
suggested. Ill now explain why.
 
But first I do understand and appreciate how disappointed Miss J will be. The circumstances 
of this complaint are very sad given Mrs Ps diagnosis of cancer and her continuing ongoing 
treatment. However, my role is to assess if Mapfre did anything wrong under the terms and 
conditions of its policy and I dont think it did but for its delay in dealing with Miss Js 
complaint. Ill explain. 
The policy is clear on that cover for cancellation is limited when it concerns a medical 
condition of a travelling companion as it says the following is excluded:
5. Cancelling or cutting short your trip because of a medical condition or any illness 
related to a medical condition you knew about at the time of taking out this insurance 
and/or, prior to the booking of any individual trip and that affects a close relative (see 
Definition on page 13), business associate, travel companion or person who you plan 
to stay with on your trip, who is not insured but on whose health your trip may 
depend.
Earlier in the policy document it says the following:
This policy will not cover any claims under section A - Cancelling and cutting short 
your holiday, that result directly or indirectly from any medical condition you knew 
about at the time of taking out this insurance or when booking a trip, and that affects:
 A close relative (see Definition on page 13) who is not travelling and is not insured 
under this policy;
 Someone travelling with you who is not insured under this policy;
 A business associate; or
 A person you plan to stay with on your trip.
Therefore, the issue is what was known about Mrs Ps medical condition at the time of taking 
out the policy on 22 February 2019. She had a minor pain in her side since November 2018 
for which she had sought treatment from her GP. This pain was originally thought to have 
originated from scar tissue from a previous operation. On 8 February 2019 her medical notes 
state the pain was getting worse and affecting her job. I do think this note in the medical 
records is significant. From this a referral was made to a general surgery consultant to 
investigate more, and this referral was made on 19 February 2019. Very sadly following 
further investigations following on from that referral, it was discovered she had cancer and 
so would have to cancel her holiday. Miss J has told us it was only following a scan in March 
2019 to look more closely at the scar tissue issue that it discovered something untoward 
which turned out to be cancer.
 
There is no evidence to show me that it was only after the buying of the policy Mrs P showed 
symptoms of what was eventually diagnosed so sadly as being cancer. Its very clear to me 
from Mrs Ps medical history, the investigations into the pain she was suffering identified the 
cancer. Mrs Ps GP when asked the question on the Mapfres form: 
What ongoing medical condition(s) or medical complications directly attributable to 
the condition(s) [namely Mrs Ps cancer] was being investigated by a registered 
medical practitioner at:
(a) the date the policy was purchased
(b) the date the trip was booked.
pointed to the fact Mrs P was being referred to a consultant for further investigation of this 
pain she was suffering. Therefore, Mrs Ps GP firmly linked the pain she was suffering from 
to the eventual sad diagnosis of cancer. So, on that basis there is no nothing to show me 
Mapfre were wrong to refuse to pay this claim. 
I fully understand and appreciate that Miss J and indeed Mrs P were fully unaware at the 
time Miss J bought the policy that Mrs Ps health was such that it was likely their planned 
and very much look forwarded to holiday would end up needing to be cancelled. But clearly 
both Miss J and Mrs P knew she had this pain and knew that it was being investigated 
further at the time the policy was taken out. Therefore, on balance, I dont think Mapfre did 
anything wrong in refusing to pay Miss Js claim.However, I do think the claims process took too long which caused Miss J some distress and 
upset. Mapfre obviously had to liaise with Mrs Ps doctors which can add to delays. But Miss 
J made her claim to Mapfre in July and it wasnt until February 2020 that it made a decision 
on her claim. There were instances according to Miss J when Mapfre said it was waiting for 
medical evidence, but Mrs Ps doctors said they hadnt received a request. Mapfre didnt 
give us the entire of its claims file to fully assess this but it accepted the investigators 
recommendation to pay £100 compensation for its delays. I consider thats reasonable. This 
level of compensation is in line with what I have awarded in other cases in similar 
circumstances. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part.
I now require Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to 
pay Miss J the sum of £100 compensation for its delay. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman