DRN-2950211
The complaint
Mr W complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL) unfairly changed the 
method by which it collected fees for his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) in July 2019.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint at the start of this month. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from it 
below. In the provisional decision I said;
Mr W holds pension savings in a SIPP with IISL. In June 2019 IISL wrote to 
customers, including Mr W, to advise that it was making some changes to the 
charges it made. It advised that it was replacing a quarterly charge on Mr Ws trading 
account with a new monthly charge called the Investor Service Plan. Mr W would 
be required to pay that charge in addition to a monthly SIPP fee that he was already 
paying.
As a result of the changes IISL combined the collection of the two charges. IISL says 
that it was not allowed to deduct non-SIPP charges (such as the Investor Service 
Plan charge) from Mr Ws SIPP account. So, since both charges were deducted 
together it took them from Mr Ws trading account.
Mr W complained to IISL about that change. He said that IISL had not provided him 
with any notice to the change in collection method for his SIPP charges. And as a 
result those charges were now being taken from post-tax funds and so he had 
effectively seen a 25% increase in his charges. IISL didnt accept Mr Ws complaint. 
It said it was able, under its terms and conditions, to vary the charges it made. And it 
said its rates information clearly set out the preference order of accounts from 
which charges would be deducted.
I think I should start by reiterating some of the arguments put forward by our 
investigator. It would be unreasonable to expect a business to be unable to change 
the way in which it does business or the charges it makes for the Service it provides. 
And generally, providing the terms and conditions do not fall outside the relevant 
regulations, this Service would not interfere in those processes, or in the charges that 
a business makes.
But any changes that are made will not be suitable for the circumstances of every 
consumer. So it is also right that any changes are clearly explained to consumers, 
and if appropriate adversely affected consumers are given the opportunity to move 
their business to another provider.
So, on that basis, it would seem reasonable to conclude that IISL acted fairly when it 
changed the basis of the charges it levied on Mr Ws trading account. It provided him 
with notice of the changes, and gave him the opportunity to move his account to 
another provider if he chose to do so.
But those changes do not form the basis of Mr Ws complaint. His complaint relates 
to changes that were made at the same time to the collection of the fees relating to 
his SIPP account. When the trading account charges were moved to a monthly 
frequency, they aligned with his SIPP charges. And IISL elected to collect both 
charges in a single transaction. But since it wasnt allowed to deduct non-SIPP 
charges from the SIPP, IISL took both charges from the trading account instead.
I have looked at the Terms and Conditions that were in operation at that time (in 
July 2019). Charges are covered in section 12 of the terms, and in particular 
section 12.1 says;
You agree to pay annual fees relating to the provision of the Scheme which 
are detailed in the Rates and Charges on our website www.ii.co.uk which also 
confirms details of how fees are collected (please note that different fees may 
be payable in respect of a junior SIPP). You authorise us to deduct SIPP fees 
and any other amounts due from your SIPP investment account
Mr W has told us that his SIPP fees had always been deducted from his SIPP 
investment account. He says he found that attractive since they were deducted from 
his gross pension savings, before income tax became payable. But, following the 
change to the Investor Service Plan charges in July 2019, the charges stopped being 
deducted from his SIPP investment account.
I can appreciate that it would be administratively attractive to IISL to deduct both the 
SIPP fees and the Investor Service Plan charge in a single transaction. And given the 
regulations about the deduction of fees from the SIPP account it needed to take both 
fees from the trading account. But I cannot see that change was appropriately 
notified to Mr W.
Mr W brought his complaint to this Service in April 2020. The terms I have referenced 
above remained applicable at that time. But IISL issued a further revision to the terms 
and conditions in October 2020. At that time, section 12.2 was revised to read;
You authorise us to deduct SIPP fees and any other amounts due from your 
account(s) in the manner set out in the Rates and Charges
I am satisfied, and it appears Mr W agrees, that those changes, in October 2020, 
provided the required notice for IISL to deduct the SIPP charges from the trading 
account.
But I cannot agree that was the case for the period between July 2019 and October 
2020. I currently dont think that IISL has treated Mr W fairly. I dont think it either 
varied its terms and conditions, or made Mr W sufficiently aware of the changes to 
how the charges for his SIPP would now be collected. So I think IISL needs to pay 
Mr W some compensation.
I invited both parties to provide me with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Although I am only summarising here what they have said, I want to 
reassure Mr W and IISL that I have carefully read and considered their entire responses.
Mr W is concerned that, following the findings in my provisional decision, it appears that IISL 
would have been aware it was in breach of its terms and conditions, but decided to ride 
roughshod over its customers and carry on regardless. So he asks that I should consider 
whether IISL should be asked to pay some additional compensation for the trouble and 
upset he has been caused.IISL doesnt agree with my provisional findings and thinks I have been mistaken in some of 
the analysis I performed. It says that the changes to the terms and conditions were 
published in July and October 2019 rather than October 2020 as I concluded in my 
provisional decision. It says that those terms authorise IISL to collect SIPP fees from the 
SIPP investment account. But it points out that wording doesnt mean IISL is bound or 
limited to collecting fees in that way. It says its rates and charges document says that SIPP 
fees would be collected alongside the monthly service plan fee.
It also notes that Mr W had actually pre-paid his SIPP fees in January 2019, so no further 
SIPP fee was taken until January 2020. So it says that the SIPP fees taken from the trading 
account were subsequent to the changes in its terms and conditions,
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered the responses from both parties I am not minded that I should 
alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. But I think it important that 
I should give some further clarity and explanation in relation to the responses they have 
provided.
I agree with IISL that it made some changes to the terms and conditions in July and 
October 2019. In my provisional decision I referred to a further change that I said had been 
made in October 2020. IISL says that it didnt make a change at that time, but it did make a 
change in September 2020. The document detailing that change was indeed dated 
September 2020, but became applicable on 1 October 2020. So I think it simply a matter of 
semantics as to how that change should be referenced. But I remain of the opinion that is 
only that change that provided the necessary notice that IISL intended to deduct SIPP fees 
from Mr Ws trading account.
As I said in my provisional decision it is only right that any changes being made are clearly 
explained to consumers. I have looked again at the information Mr W was sent before the 
Service Charge was introduced. That information told Mr W about the new Service Charge 
that was being introduced. And it told him that his SIPP charges would now be collected 
monthly, at the same time as the service charge. But, importantly, it didnt provide any 
indication that the account those SIPP fees would be collected from was changing.
I can see that in the period between July 2019 and December 2019 Mr W paid a monthly 
SIPP Drawdown Fee of £10 per month that was deduced from his trading account. And then, 
as IISL has said, from January once his prepayment had expired, he paid an additional 
monthly charge of £10 as a SIPP Administration Fee. He paid both these SIPP charges each 
month (so a total of £20 per month) until the further changes were implemented in 
October 2020.
I think that, after having read the information hed been sent about the changes being made 
in July 2019, Mr W had a reasonable expectation that no changes were being made to his 
SIPP fees, other than they would now be collected monthly. I dont think IISL gave him any 
reasonable expectation that those SIPP fees would be collected from a different account. So 
I still think that IISL needs to pay Mr W some compensation for the period to October 2020 
when its terms changed once more, and provided the priority order of the accounts that 
would be used to collect the fees.I understand Mr Ws frustration that IISL didnt accept his complaint when it was made. 
I dont however share his conclusion that IISL knew it was in the wrong and decided to carry 
on regardless. And in any case, as I explained in my provisional decision, this Service isnt 
intended to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority. I have thought carefully about whether it would be right to direct IISL to 
make a further payment to Mr W in respect of any trouble and upset hes been caused. But 
I havent concluded that would be necessary in regard to this complaint  I havent seen 
anything to make me think that Mr W has been inconvenienced any more than any other 
consumer needing to make a complaint.
Putting things right
 I think it would be reasonable for Mr W to have expected the SIPP charges (both Drawdown 
Fees and Administration Fees) he paid between July 2019 and October 2020 to have been 
deducted from his SIPP Investment account.
Simplistically he would have needed to withdraw funds from that account to fund his trading 
account to pay the fees that were being charged there instead. And given that those 
withdrawals would be subject to basic rate income tax, the amounts Mr W would need to 
withdraw would be 25% higher than the fees he paid.
So I direct IISL to make a payment to Mr W equivalent to 25% of the total SIPP charges 
(both Drawdown Fees and Administration Fees) he paid between 1 July 2019 and 
1 October 2020. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Interactive Investor Services 
Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman