DRN-3182917
The complaint
Miss K complains that HSBC UK Bank plc declined her mortgage application and recorded 
an entry about her on a fraud prevention database. 
What happened
In mid-2018, Miss K says she asked a broker, who Ill call M, to arrange a re-mortgage for 
her. She paid M £2,500, and sent him various documents, including payslips and bank 
statements.
Around a year later, in June 2019, HSBC received an application for a mortgage in Miss Ks 
name. It asked for documents, such as payslips and bank statements, but declined the 
application.  
Miss K was unhappy about HSBCs decision, and asked it to remove the checks it had done 
from her credit file. She later found out that HSBC had recorded a marker against her name 
with CIFAS, a fraud prevention database. 
In response to Miss Ks complaint, HSBC said her application hadnt met its lending criteria 
and it had recorded credit checks for her mortgage application as it usually would and as 
Miss K had agreed to. It thought it had done nothing wrong.
Miss K asked us to look into the matter. She said M had told her he was an authorised 
mortgage broker, but she had since found out that wasnt the case. She said he had 
submitted the mortgage application to HSBC using fraudulent documents which she had 
known nothing about. She wanted HSBC to remove the fraud marker and any records of the 
mortgage application from her credit file. 
Our investigator thought HSBC had acted reasonably in recording the fraud marker, so she 
didnt recommend it be removed. Miss K didnt accept that. Her solicitor responded on her 
behalf with a bundle of papers, and said they thought HSBC hadnt properly investigated the 
matter before recording the marker, or told Miss K what it was doing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that documents provided to HSBC to support Miss Ks application were 
forged. Miss Ks representative has provided copies of her genuine current account 
statements and payslips, and HSBC has provided the fraudulent ones it received.
The fraudulent documents were produced in order to prove Miss K received an income of 
£77,281 gross per year as stated on her mortgage application. I understand Miss Ks actual 
gross annual income was less than half that amount. 
Miss K says she didnt know anything about the false information that had been given to 
HSBC until afterwards. She had trusted M, who had been recommended to her by a family 
member. She has provided copies of some of her e-mails and messages with M. 
HSBC says Miss Ks mortgage application was made direct by Miss K; it wasnt made by a 
broker. It says it sent all correspondence to Miss K directly.
Im satisfied that HSBCs records reflect that the application didnt involve a broker or other 
third party. Those records show the application was made using Miss Ks postal address and 
e-mail address. I find nothing to show that HSBC communicated with a third party. Its 
records also say that it spoke to Miss K directly about her application a number of times, 
including when it wanted more information  but theres no indication of Miss Ks having 
referred it to M during those discussions. Miss Ks own evidence reflects a conversation with 
HSBC as well: she has provided a copy of a message she sent to M dated the same day as 
HSBCs call to her for more information.
HSBC correctly identified documents as fraudulent after making its own enquiries. It didnt 
need to do any more than that or tell Miss K about its concerns. It was also entitled to turn 
down her mortgage application without going into detail about why. 
In all the circumstances, I think HSBC had reasonable grounds to record a marker about 
Miss K with CIFAS. And on the evidence Ive seen, I dont find its decision not to remove the 
entry was unreasonable, so I dont require it to do so now. I also havent seen anything to 
indicate HSBC put information on Miss Ks credit file in connection with this mortgage 
application which it shouldnt have done.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman