DRN-2437951
The complaint
Mr D complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) lent to him irresponsibly. He wants 
Vanquis to cancel the debt. 
What happened
Mr D was accepted for a credit card by Vanquis in January 2013 with a limit of £500. The 
following credit limit increases were then applied:
Date July 2013 January 2014 February 2015
Credit limit £1,000 £1,750 £2,250
 
Mr D complained to Vanquis and said they shouldnt have offered the credit in the first place 
as well as the subsequent increases. Mr D remained unhappy following Vanquis response 
so he referred his complaint to our service in April 2020. 
An ombudsman looked into the complaint and decided the complaint was referred to our 
service more than six years from the credit card account opening in 2013, and more than six 
years after the credit card limit increases in 2013 and 2014. The ombudsman also decided 
the complaint was brought more than three years after Mr D knew, or ought reasonably to 
have known, he had cause for complaint. The ombudsman decided these parts of the 
complaint were out of jurisdiction but we could consider the credit increase in February 2015.  
In response to Mr Ds complaint, and in relation to the credit increase in 2015, Vanquis said, 
their searches revealed no outstanding County Court Judgments (CCJ) or newly defaulted 
debt. They said Mr Ds external non-mortgage lending was shown to have reduced down to 
£3,316 in February 2015. They said this, when considered in conjunction with the other 
information supplied remained within the levels set as part of their lending policy. Vanquis 
said, since Mr Ds account opened, all minimum payments requested had been received in 
full and on time. They said, it wasn't until June 2016 that the first instance of a late payment 
took place. They said, when the credit increase offer was made in 2015, information about 
Mr D revealed his external lines of credit to have been up to date. In view of the good 
account management they were able to offer the increased facility in February 2015. 
Vanquis didnt uphold this part of the complaint.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr D. She thought Vanquis had acted reasonably in 
increasing Mr Ds credit limit in 2015. Mr D disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr D will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
 
Vanquis needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that they didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that they shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr D could repay the credit in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
The first point Ive addressed is whether I think Vanquis carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook, in place at the 
time, outline that the assessment that Vanquis needed to complete shouldve been 
dependent on, and proportionate to, a number of factors  including the amount and cost of 
the credit and the consumers borrowing history. CONC also provides guidance on the 
sources of information Vanquis may have wanted to consider as part of making a 
proportionate assessment. It then gives examples of factors a firm must consider and refers 
to whether the information the firm has is sufficient and whether to obtain additional 
information from the customer and any other sources of information to use. 
      
Vanquis is free to decide how to set their lending criteria but they should complete 
proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. In this case, I can see that 
Vanquis, when applying the credit limit increase in 2015, considered information including 
how Mr D was performing on this account, any financial difficulty or affordability indicators, 
any CCJ and whether there were arrears reported by any other external creditor. I think the 
checks carried out by Vanquis are reasonable and proportionate as they take into account a 
number of factors. And, the checks carried out are the type I would reasonably expect 
because they would help Vanquis to not only build a picture of Mr Ds financial situation, but 
also to assist in determining whether he could repay the credit in a sustainable way. 
The next point Ive considered is whether Vanquis made a fair lending decision bearing in 
mind the information gathered and what they knew about Mr Ds circumstances. To help 
decide this, Ive looked at how Mr D was performing against this account. The credit limit 
increase was made in February 2015 so Ive looked at the 12 months leading up to this. I 
can see regular payments were made with no late fees being charged in this period. The 
monthly payments being made were also higher than the interest payment for that month. 
This shows that the payments were going towards the capital and not just the monthly 
interest which had accrued. 
 
Ive also looked at other factors which Vanquis took into account at the point the credit 
increase was applied. Vanquis received information from a credit reference agency which 
showed Mr D didnt have a CCJ or any defaults with other lenders. The information also 
shows that Mr Ds total outstanding non-mortgage lending was £7,905 12 months before the 
February 2015 increase. This was brought down to £3,316 at the point the increase was 
applied. This shows Mr D had brought down his external non-mortgage lending by 58%. I 
think this demonstrates Mr D was generally managing his external debt as well as his 
Vanquis account reasonably well. 
 
Vanquis say they wrote to Mr D asking him to call them within 30 days if he didnt want the 
credit limit increase. This gave Mr D an opportunity to decline the offer. I havent seen any 
evidence which shows that Mr D declined Vanquis offer to increase his credit limit. 
So, bearing this in mind and without any information to suggest that the increase would be 
unaffordable, its difficult for me to say that Vanquis should have done anything differently 
here. Whilst the increase did mean that the limit rose considerably from the point the card was taken out, Vanquis have demonstrated that they carried out proportionate checks and 
there was nothing else to suggest Mr D might have struggled to maintain the borrowing. 
There are a couple of factors here which might point towards a concern so its only fair that I 
consider these. Theres evidence which shows that Mr Ds average utilisation of his credit 
limit over the three months prior to the credit increase in February 2015 was 97%. While this 
does show Mr D was operating very close to the previous limit of £1,750, I dont think this 
alone is a factor which ought reasonably to have led Vanquis to not offer the credit limit 
increase. I havent seen any evidence he consistently exceeded the limit and there was an 
occasion in April 2014 when Mr D paid over £1,700 towards the balance. So, I think this 
shows that Mr D was generally able to manage his account well and did have the facility to 
make a larger payment if he needed to. The information provided by Vanquis also shows 
that Mr D had three short term loans over the three months prior to the credit increase. And, 
while I have noted this, nothing I have seen suggests that Mr D was relying on short term 
borrowing to either meet other repayment liabilities or to otherwise make ends meet. These 
factors therefore dont persuade me that it was unreasonable for Vanquis to increase the 
credit limit when taking all other factors into account.
  
I understand Mr D has since experienced financial difficulty and I am sorry to hear about the 
impact this has had on his mental health. My decision however focusses on what Vanquis 
knew about Mr Ds circumstances at the time they increased his credit limit in 2015. And, for 
the reasons I have given, I dont think theyve acted unfairly. We do expect lenders to treat 
consumers, who are experiencing financial difficulty or are vulnerable, sympathetically and 
positively. I feel that has been the case here. Vanquis have agreed to place the debt on hold 
for 30 days so Mr D can get in contact with them to arrange a repayment plan. So, this 
shows Vanquis have taken into account Mr Ds circumstances and are taking steps to help 
him. 
 
In summary, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint in this matter as I feel Vanquis carried out 
reasonable checks and made a fair decision to lend.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman