DRN-2695370
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn).    
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Moneybarn, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr M. The car here was 
already eight years old and had completed about 89,000 so I think a reasonable person 
would expect it to have some wear and tear.
But I dont think theyd think the car to be of satisfactory quality if it developed a significant 
fault such as this with the gearbox having only completed about 1,000 miles.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Moneybarn were responsible for its 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. This fault was reported within two months 
and Ive not seen evidence that persuades me it wasnt present at the point of supply.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to repair 
the fault. But if that repair fails they should allow the consumer to reject the car.
The car failed again in November 2019, eight months after inception of the finance and 
about 4,000 miles since the car was repaired. The independent inspector didnt think the 
fault was present at the point the car was supplied to Mr M, but he couldnt view the 
mechatronic unit in situ and explained it would need removing to complete the investigation, 
so I dont think his findings are particularly persuasive. I think the evidence suggests it was 
the same fault that was repaired in May 2019. I say that because:
the garage Mr M took the car to have explained the faulty part is a valve body and 
that appears to be exactly the same part that failed in May 2019;
the supplying dealership explained that the valve body was prone to cracking due to 
a manufacturing fault and, by their nature, manufacturing faults are present from the 
beginning;
Mr M has provided an email he sent to the warranty company in which he explains 
that one of their operators told him there had been a claim under warranty for the 
gearbox on the car before he took receipt of it. It appears he was told nothing was 
ever done about the claim. Whilst I dont think this is conclusive evidence of a fault 
with the gearbox at inception I do think it adds a little more weight to Mr Ms 
argument;
And, as it seems it was the same fault repaired in May 2019, I dont think that repair can be 
considered successful as it only lasted for six months and a few thousand miles. So, I think 
there is evidence that this car was not of satisfactory quality.   
Putting things right
Moneybarn should collect the car at no cost to Mr M (if they havent done so already) and 
they should end the finance agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Mr M has paid and, as hes been deprived of that money, 
they will need to add interest to that refund.
Mr M has had to commission a report on the cars condition in order to support his claim. 
There appear to also be costs associated with storage fees that may have been added to the 
balance of Mr Ms agreement. I think those costs have been incurred as a consequence of 
the car being of unsatisfactory quality. So, Moneybarn should refund the cost of the report on 
provision of receipts from Mr M and they should refund or waive any storage fees that have 
been incurred. They should add interest to any refund.
Mr M has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take the car back to the 
dealership on several occasions and hes also had to escalate his complaint to this service 
when I think it could have been resolved earlier. Hes explained that the whole process has 
been stressful for him and, in the circumstances, Moneybarn should pay him £225 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Mr M appears to have had reasonable use of the car up until November 2019 when hes 
explained the fault prevented him driving the car anymore. When the car was being repaired 
he was kept mobile with a courtesy car. So, I think it was fair for him to pay for the car up to 
November 2019 but Moneybarn should refund or waive any payments made or due from that 
point. They should add interest to any refund as Mr M has been deprived of that money.    My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
to:
allow Mr M to reject the car and end the finance agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr M if they havent already done so;
refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund, or waive, any finance instalments made from, and including, 18 November 
2019 the point at which Mr M reasonably stopped using the car. Add 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund the cost of the garage report, any storage costs or any repair costs Mr M 
incurred and can provide receipts for, as they were consequential losses. Add 8% 
simple interest per year to the refund from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
pay Mr M £225 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ms credit file in relation to 
this issue.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman