DRN-3233909
The complaint
Mr R complained about delays by Scottish Widows Limited (SW) in a transfer from his Group
Personal Pension (GPP) to his retirement account policy (RA).
What happened
Mr R said he completed an online form on 5 March 2020 to transfer his GPP into his RA
policy. He first called SW and then completed the form. He thought the form was not clear.
When SW sent him confirmation of the transfer on 14 March 2020 it was clear that it was the
wrong way around. He immediately called them to explain and ask them to reverse the
transfer so that the GPP was transferred to the RA policy. He chased on 17 March and 24
March when he was told the transfer was being reversed but they didnt know where the
process had got to. Mr R explained that he needed access to his account but couldnt get
into it on the online portal. He didnt get online access until 17 April 2020. He felt he should
have been able to access his funds on or around 15 March so didnt think he should suffer
any losses from 24 March, which were around £7,000. He had called SW over eighteen
times between 14 March and 18 June but had not had any call returned. He felt his funds
were in limbo for 5 weeks. He felt he had suffered distress for 14 weeks, with no
communication other than the cancellation notice sent on 31 March 2020. His financial
adviser had also emailed. During this time, he was paying a service charge of £90 per
calendar month. He thought the £200 paid by SW was derisory.
SW said that on 5 March Mr R completed an online transfer request to transfer the value of
his RA to his GPP policy. It started this process on 6 March 2020. Mr R called on 14 March
to say he had made a mistake and intended to transfer his GPP to his RA. SW said it would
stop the process and reverse the arrangements which would include reactivating the RA. It
did not give any timescale for unravelling what had been started and then completing the
new request. It said it completed the process on 14 April 2020. It said the value of the RA on
6 March was around £128,000 but by the 14 April it was around £135,000. At 6 March the
GPP had a value of around £16,500 but by the time it was being moved to the RA it was
worth around £14,300. When the GPP was finally transferred to the RA on 14 April it was
worth around £14,900. It said Mr R had not lost out. It had started the transfer process
corrected and then took steps to restore the RA before completing the transfer for the GPP.
It accepted that it didnt get back to him sooner and sent £200.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said the following.
To make an award against SW I needed to decide if it had done anything wrong.
I had considered what happened. There were three separate transactions involved. Firstly,
the transfer from the RA to the GPP (that Mr R accepted was made due to his error),
secondly the cancellation of this step and then finally the transfer from the GPP to the RA.
SW had told me that the service standard timescales for an internal transfer was 10 working
days. It said it did not have a process to reverse the error that Mr R made but decided to
treat it as a cancellation. That also had a 10-working day standard. I have therefore
considered whether each of the steps has been completed within SWs service standards.
I noted that the initial request to transfer the RA policy into the GPP was made by Mr R on 5
March 2020 and by 14 March he said he had made an error and wished to reverse the
transfer. A 10-working day standard would have meant that the transfer was completed by
19 March 2020. So, it didnt not seem there was any delay in the initial transfer.
After Mr R notified SW that he wished to reverse the transfer it took some time to decide how
to treat this as there wasnt a reversal process. SW also said it had to reinstate the RA policy
which wasnt something it normally did. This meant there was not a standard process for this
step. I had seen internal SW communication exploring how to go about reversing the
transfer. I noted that Mr R said this should have been done quickly but I can see that this
was not a simple step for SW as it had to both reactivate a policy (something not normally
done) and then transfer the funds back to it.
The internal team considered several options but settled on the one it believed had the
least impact for Mr R and treated it as a cancellation which would have a 10-day service
standard. SW made this decision around 20 March with action started on Monday 23 March.
I thought this was reasonable as SW needed to consider how to action Mr Rs request as it
was agreeing to do something that it didnt have to do and for which there was no process to
follow. During this time the policy would not be visible online, but this wasnt explained and
no time scale given.
10 workings days from 23 March 2020 would take us to Friday 4 April. I could see
cancellation papers were issued to Mr R towards the end of March and he signed them on 2
April and returns them. So, it seems this step had been implemented within a reasonable
timescale and within the service standard timescale once the action was started.
Mr R then made a new transfer request to move the GPP to the RA on 6 April. 10 working
days for completion of this step would be 23 April 2020 (allowing for Easter bank holidays
which were not working days). It seemed the transfer was made on 14 April and finally
settled on 24 April and confirmation issued on 28 April 2020. So, it seems that the service
standard was met for the second transfer.
So, I didnt think there has been any unreasonably delay in taking action to deal with the
transfer and cancellations.
However, each transfer and cancellation would also have an impact on Mr Rs investments,
so, I had also considered how these were dealt with.
At the start of the process on 5 March 2020 the RA (policy ending 1049) was shown with an
approximate transfer value of around £128,000 and invested in SW Pension Portfolio Three.
Confirmation of transfer listed the actual transfer as £128,833.54.
By 14 April the value of the reinstated RA policy was around £133,105.00 so the original
funds had been benefited from movement in the underlaying fund. This seems reasonable
but SW had not explained how the RA value was reinstated. It seemed the fund was moved
into cash when the transfer was started. This would have benefited Mr R if the unit prices
were falling during this time. When the RA transfer was reversed, I might reasonably have
expected SW to apply the cash to purchase such number of units in the SW Pension
Portfolio three fund as the cash would buy at that point in time, alternatively it may have
reinstated the same number of units he held prior to the transfer. Before I issued my final 
decision, I asked SW to confirm what happened and the number of units Mr R held before 
the transfer to the GPP and after the transfer was reversed and in which fund.By the time Mr R called to cancel on 14 March SW said the GPP had fallen in value to
around £14,350 due to changes in fund values due to market changes. When the RA was
reinstated, and the transfer reversed SW said it then actioned the transfer from the GPP to
the RA on 14 April 2020 and the amount transferred was around £14,985.00 which SW said
was the highest price the fund had between 14 March and 14 April 2020. A letter of 24 April
says that this is the amount that was disinvested, and the policy cancelled.
I said I would expect the money in the GPP should have remained invested throughout the
time up to the start of the transfer of the GPP to the RA in April 2020 and its value would
have moved in line with its underlying investment up to the point in encashment. It should
not have been affected by the attempted transfer in of the RA. However, I asked that before I
issued my final decision SW confirmed what the GPP was invested in and the number of
units held and in which fund before the 6 March 2020 request and the date and number
encashed to enable the transfer to the RA on 14 April 2020.
Based on the evidence I had and subject to the additional information I had requested from
SW I thought SW had acted reasonably in the way it had managed the movements of the
money and I didnt think Mr R lost out because of those changes, which were
completed within reasonable timescales and service standards.
I considered that Mr R said he wanted to change his investment in the light of the market
reaction to COVID 19. However, he said he couldnt do this. For the duration of the time
when the first transfer and reversal was taking place, it would have been difficult for him to
make any changes to the RA as it was being disinvested and reinvested to enable the
transfer. But I didnt think that would have prevented him making changes to his GPP
investment. I didnt think SW caused Mr R to suffer any loss while it followed his instructions.
I also noted that Mr R could not have made any changes online and would have needed to
give instructions to do this by phone or via his IFA. While he said both he and his IFA
contacted SW I had not seen evidence that was to make an investment switch instead it
seems the contact was to chase the transfers. So, I dont think the lack of online access
prevented him from making changes in his investments.
SW accepted that it didnt keep Mr R updated or give clear timescales for action or returned
calls and this was very frustrating for him. I have considered an award for distress and
inconvenience. Such an award is intended to reflect the impact on Mr R not to punish SW. I
have noted that SW had accepted its mistake and paid him £200 for this. I could see Mr R
was frustrated as he said he called many times, but his calls were not returned, and he felt
left on the dark. Given the market turmoil at the time I can understand Mr R was frustrated.
Having considered this, I think an award of around £200 is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances.
Subject to the provision of the additional information I had requested, I
thought SW has treated Mr R fairly and I didnt propose to uphold this complaint as I thought 
Scottish Widows Limited had acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr R didnt agree. He said he had access to his online portal on 17 April, but it didnt work.
He was unable to change, amend, alter etc any part of this account and his wasnt possible
until 18 June 2020. He said the RA value on 19 March was around £128,8000. This had
plummeted in value and he couldnt amend or alter it until June. He said while the funds may
have been transferred on 17 April he had no way of knowing as SW never told him this and
didnt communicate until 18 June and the change didnt show up on the online portal.
He felt the compensation of £200 was derisory having spent hours trying to call, email etc.He had a record of 18 calls made by him where SW offered no guidance advice or support. It
told him the system was down and they didnt know what was happening. He was relying on
this pension for his future and yet he had no access or control. He said he felt the RA value
increase was due to the transfer to the GPP rather than investment growth.
SW said the number of units was not altered as a result of Mr Rs mistake. The transaction
was reversed as though it never happened and consequently, he was in the same unit
position as he would have been had it not taken place. This this meant the around 61,790 
units he held in its Pension Portfolio 3 fund on 6 March were reinstated when the transaction 
was reversed.
In relation to the GPP at 6 March it was invested partly in two funds with a value at that date
of around £16,500 and at 14 April it was £14,900 approximately (and this was the amount
transferred to the RA policy). This meant that the RA policy then held around 69,579 units in
its Pension Portfolio 3 policy.
On 24 June 2020 SW paid out a transfer out to another provider, at that point the RA policy
had around 69,478 units in the pension portfolio three policy. The difference in units was due
to advice charges paid in April, May and June 2020.
My second provisional decision
In the light of the replies I reconsidered the following 1) what happened to Mr Rs
investments during the transfers, 2) the number of calls made and their impact and 3)
whether Mr R was prevented from changing his investments as he wished.
Investments
I could see from the replies provided by SW that Mr Rs RA value was reinstated on the 
basis that he was given back the same number of units in the same fund he held before it 
was transferred to the GPP. The value of those units at the time of reinstatement would have 
been different to the value at the time of the transfer as they will have been changing in line 
with the value of the underlying fund. As SW have reversed it on a like for like basis this 
seemed a reasonable approach for SW to have taken.
SW also explained the value of money held in Mr Rs GPP and the changes in value
when the money was transferred. The explanation provided seemed reasonable to me.
Calls
There was conflicting evidence submitted by SW and Mr R about the number of times that 
Mr R called SW and the nature of those call, but what was clear was that there were many 
calls. Mr R said that sometimes he didnt get through, so SW would not have known he 
called. I have already considered that Mr R made many calls and this was frustrating, and I 
felt that the payment of £200 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I remained of 
that view.
Changing investments
The notes for the calls listed by SW (at least 9 of them) referred to Mr R chasing his 
complaint, none of them referred to him making a specific request to change investments. Mr 
R also said that many of his calls were chasing his complaint, about not being able to control 
or move the pension. Mr R specifically lists a conversation with a named person on 24 
March. However, this was during the time that the transfer was being reversed so in any 
event it would not have been possible to change investments while the transfer was being 
reversed.
So, while it was clear Mr R was chasing SW it did not seem that he attempted to give aspecific instruction to change his investments. I had seen an SW information sheet about
investments changes. This was clear they could be made at any time and that it was 
possible to do this by phone, so the lack of online access should not have prevented any 
changes to Mr Rs investments. I also noted that SW issued confirmation that the final 
transfer had been done on 28 April so it should have been possible to change his 
investments over the phone after that time.
Mr R confirmed he had access to his online portal on 17 April but couldnt make changes
until mid-June. Of the calls listed by both parties only SW recorded a call after this date on
20 April and 4 May but the notes show that on neither call was there a request to change
investments.
So, while Mr R may have wished to make changes it seems the calls related to lack of
information and lack of control but stopped short of setting out a clear decision on the
investment changes he wished to make.
So, I didnt think he was prevented from making changes to his investments because he
could have requested this over the phone. Even if I was wrong in that conclusion, I didnt 
think it would have made a difference, because Mr R had not decided which fund or funds to 
move into.
I said that because I had seen a copy email from Mr Rs IFA to SW complaining about the
time taken for the transfer. It also mentioned that he wanted to move his funds into an area
with less risk to soften the losses, but no specific fund was identified. I listened to a call
between Mr R and his IFA but the focus was on a transfer away from SW and the investment
options this created but no specific advice was given about which funds he should move in 
to pending a transfer.
So, I didnt think SW prevented Mr R changing his investments after the transfers were
completed in April.
So, having considered all the further information and evidence submitted I didnt change 
my mind. I remained of the view that I didnt propose to uphold this complaint as I thought 
Scottish Widows Limited had acted fairly and reasonably.
SW said it had nothing further to add.
Mr R said he felt that both customer service and communication had been extremely poor. 
He said when he made the initial mistake he had taken instructions from the SW 
representative and felt this should be taken into account. He also felt the form was 
confusing.
With respect to changing investments he didnt think he could change them if neither he nor 
his IFA had access to the account. He thought he had discussed this with SW at least once. 
He wanted to know if all the calls had been recorded and listened to.
While he may not specifically have asked for movement of funds, he didnt think this was 
possible if the SW representative couldnt even tell him where his fund was and there was no 
access to it.
Even if he could have changed his mind by calling he had called many times (at least 18 
times) many times waiting over an hour for an answer. Action simply was not possible. Even 
when he did get through there was no support only promises to call back. 
He sent a further copy of his cancellation notice dated 2 April 2020 which he said clearly recorded that he was concerned as to the whereabouts of his pension and desire to move it. 
He didnt get a reply until a letter dated 18 June.
He sent a further copy of his letter of complaint and said SW still had not answered all his 
points, and this was a further example of poor communication.
Finally, if SW had reinvested on 14 April why couldnt he or his IFA access it until 18 June?
He also wanted to see the SW explanation of the value of money in the GPP and changes in 
value.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered what Mr R said but havent changed my mind. I have already considered 
his comments about communication so have not commented further.
I note Mr R says that when he made the initial mistake he had taken instructions from the 
SW representative and felt this should be taken into account. He also felt the form was 
confusing. I have considered this before. But even if Mr R had discussed the transfer with 
SW before he completed the form that doesnt mean it was their fault he completed it 
incorrectly. I have not seen any evidence to suggest he relied on specific advice to complete 
the form in the way he did. Based on the evidence I have I cannot reasonably conclude that 
SW is responsible for the mistaken direction given when Mr R completed the form.
With respect to Mr R comments about changing investments he said he didnt think he could 
change them if neither he nor his FA had access to the account. But as I have explained he 
could change investments over the phone whether or not he had online access. 
I have not listened to all of the calls but have seen call notes. As I commented before the 
notes show that these related to the transfer and then the complaint and control of his 
account. I have not been supplied with evidence that Mr R had decided how to change his 
investments (in the sense of which new fund/s to move into) nor that he called and 
attempted to give specific instructions to change investments. So, for that reason I dont 
think it would make a difference if I did listen to the calls as it is already clear that he had to 
call many times and was frustrated his calls were not returned and he couldnt get the 
information be wanted from SW. I have already considered these in considering the award 
for distress and inconvenience.
I have again reviewed the further copy of his cancellation notice dated 2 April 2020 which he 
said clearly recorded that he was concerned as to the whereabouts of his pension and 
desire to move it. He didnt get a reply until a letter dated 18 June. But the handwritten notes 
did not give any direction about changing investments merely refer to moving the pension 
which could have meant transfer out or change investments. If it was the latter Mr R didnt to 
give a direction about the fund he wished to move into. 
I cannot explain why if SW had reinvested on 14 April neither he or his FA could access it 
until 18 June. But for the reasons given I dont think the lack of online access  would have 
prevented him from changing his investments.
I supplied Mr R with the SW explanation of the value of money in the GPP and changes in 
value. He said based on the monetary values SW did not transfer like for like. But as I have 
already said, SW reinstated Mr R on the basis that he has given back the same number of units as he had before the mistaken transfer request. This puts him back in the position he 
would have been in had he not requested the transfer. I said I thought this was reasonable.
Having reconsidered all the evidence and for the reasons given, I have not changed my 
mind.
I remain of the view that SW has treated Mr R fairly and the payment of £200 was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I direct that SW has treated Mr R fairly and the payment of £200 was fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman