DRN-3782755
The complaint
Although the complaint is brought in the name of a business P Ill be referring only to the 
parties directly involved - Mr S and Ms S.
Mr S and Ms S complained about Covea Insurance plcs slow progression of a subsidence 
claim at their ground floor flat they usually let out to tenants. They are also unhappy about 
Coveas decision to decline cover for the cost to put right their partially collapsed garden wall 
and loss of rent claim.
What happened
Mr S and Ms S notified Covea of a claim to their ground floor flat. After a period of 
investigation, the loss adjuster appointed by Covea accepted the claim having identified the 
cause of the damage as tree root induced subsidence. The most influential tree was situated 
in a neighbouring section of ground to the rear of the property. An arboricultural report 
recommended the tree should be completely removed to prevent further damage, and some 
other neighbouring trees and foliage, should be reduced.
Mr S and Ms S raised a number of complaint points. They said there was no progress on 
removing the tree or any other mitigation works. Mr and Ms S said Covea should pay for the 
collapsed wall. They submitted an independent expert report which suggested the proximity 
of the vegetation and defective drain meant it was more likely that the wall damage was 
linked to the same subsidence damage that had affected the house. Mr and Ms S wanted 
Covea to cover the loss of rent which they say is due to a loss of attraction caused by the 
collapse of the wall. Their basis for the claim was that they rent out their ground floor flat as 
a garden flat. Therefore, access to the garden was an obvious requirement of any 
prospective tenant. But they felt this was not going to be possible while a section of the 
garden wall was lying in the garden and part of the wall seemed only to be still standing due 
to another tree. They said the walls unstable state meant access to the garden was a safety 
issue.
Covea accepted it wasnt able to progress the claim as quickly as it would have liked. But it 
said the delays were because the tree belonged to a neighbour and was in a conservation 
area. The neighbour required permission from the local authority before being able to take 
action. Covea was satisfied its loss adjuster sufficiently pursued the vegetation works in 
order for the claim to progress. But matters were further delayed outside of Coveas control 
because the neighbour initially only applied to prune the tree despite being provided with 
evidence showing it had to be removed.
Covea said the wall collapsed possibly due to ground movement, mortar degradation or 
inadequate construction. It said it wasnt due to the same subsidence event identified as 
being the cause of the damage to the house. And it refused the loss of rent claim as it didnt 
feel the property was uninhabitable due to the claim.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He accepted the lack of progress was outside of 
Coveas control. And he said the property wasnt made uninhabitable because of the 
damage to the garden wall. On those points he felt Covea had acted reasonably. But he did 
accept based on Mr S and Ms Ss independent expert report that Covea had acted 
unreasonably when it declined to pay for the damage to the garden wall. He said Covea 
should cover the cost of putting right the garden wall.
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
Slow progress of the claim
Theres no doubt the claim didnt progress as quickly as the parties would have liked. 
However, I am not persuaded that the delays are down to Covea. Subsidence cases are 
very time consuming, especially when vegetation belonging to another party has to be 
removed or reduced. But its even more complex and time consuming where the vegetation 
is protected and requires local authority approval. So, I dont think theres any evidence 
Covea acted unreasonably here.
Garden wall
I have considered the points made by Coveas agents as well as the independent expert 
instructed by Mr S and Ms S on the cause of the damage to the wall. Covea and its loss 
adjuster decided the outcome of the wall claim based on pictures as opposed to carrying out 
site investigations. Neither party has undertaken any specific sub-ground site investigations 
to confirm the cause of damage to the garden wall.
Covea said long term deterioration was present with vegetation growing in the mortar. 
Whereas Mr S and Ms Ss expert pointed out there were leaking drains and roots found near 
the collapsed section of the wall, these according to their expert must have contributed to 
the collapse of the wall.
I dont think either side has enough evidence to allow me to uphold their position in full. So, 
to decide this case and enable the matter to be brought to a fair and reasonable conclusion I 
think an independent third-party expert is required.
Covea should provide details to Mr S and Ms S of three independent subsidence experts 
who are chartered engineers. Mr S and Ms S can then look at their details and select one. 
Once they have confirmed to Covea which one theyd like to be the independent expert 
Covea should pay that experts costs and arrangements should be made between the parties 
for this new expert to inspect Mr S and Ms Ss claim damage regarding the collapse of the 
wall. As both sides will have some involvement in the selection of the expert, the expert will 
be considered to have been jointly appointed by Covea and Mr S and Ms S.
Once appointed the expert should be provided with all the evidence already produced in the 
claim by both sides so they can review it before inspecting the wall. Mr S and Ms S should 
arrange a convenient date to allow the inspection to take place and they will be able to 
explain their position about the wall to the independent expert in person. The expert should 
then provide a report with findings on the cause of the damage to the wall to both parties for 
their comments, along with how this can be remedied, and what Covea should be repairing, 
or paying for under this policy.
The parties will be bound by the findings of the independent expert.
Loss of rent due to loss of attraction after the collapse of the garden wall
Covea said it wouldnt pay for any loss of rent suffered by Mr S and Ms S stating that terms 
of their policy only cover loss of rent when the property is uninhabitable as a result of the 
same claim.I dont think there is any suggestion from Mr S and Ms S that their property was rendered 
uninhabitable by the damage to the wall. The point Mr S and Ms S are making is that the 
loss of rent section provides cover in much wider circumstances.
Mr S and Ms S have pointed to their policy document, page 30, Loss of Rent Section, 
subsection 10.
10. Loss of attraction
Interruption of or interference with the business in consequence of damage to property in the 
vicinity of the premises which shall deter potential tenants or lessees whether the premises 
is subject to damage or not. Our liability will not exceed £50,000 any one occurrence and 
£250,000 in any one period of insurance.
Mr S and Ms S are claiming for loss of rent due to a loss of attraction as covered under 
subsection 10 of the Loss of Rent section of their policy. This is on the basis that they rent 
out their ground floor flat as a garden flat. Therefore, access to the garden was an obvious 
requirement of any prospective tenant. They have sought the advice of a local estate agent 
and concluded its not possible to rent out the property while a section of the garden wall 
was lying in pieces in the garden. The estate agent effectively told Mr S and Ms S this. Also, 
the remaining wall is in an unstable and precarious state. Theres a suggestion more of the 
wall would topple over but for a small tree holding it in place. So, any access for a tenant to 
the garden would be a huge safety issue. As a result, Mr S and Ms S felt they had no option 
but to withdraw the property from the market.
I havent seen Covea make any specific comments about this point. Having carefully 
examined the policy documents, I am satisfied with the principle that loss of rent due to loss 
of attraction is covered under the policy.
However, I think the loss of rent claim hinges on the outcome of the claim for the wall.
If the independent expert recommends Covea should cover the claim for the garden wall, 
then it will follow that the rent claim is covered too. Mr S and Ms S should present the 
available evidence to demonstrate what loss of rent they reasonably and unavoidably 
suffered as a result of the loss of attraction caused by the damage to the wall. Covea should 
then cover this loss of rent claim together with interest at 8% simple per annum (less tax if 
appropriate) from the date of loss until the date of settlement.
If the independent expert concludes that the wall was damaged due to an uninsured cause  
I think then the loss or rent claim due to loss of attraction fails. In such a situation, the 
responsibility to put right the wall would be down to Mr S and Ms S.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ive read all the further points made but Ill only mention the points central to this decision.
Mr S and Ms S said tree removal had taken place and monitoring carried out. This allowed 
the main building repairs to go ahead. But the work hasnt begun despite a schedule of 
works being drawn up. The loss adjuster didnt accept the works and said repairs now were 
different to the original works when the claim first arose in 2019.
Mr S and Ms S think further damage and changes occurring over the course of the past 
couple of years seems perfectly normal. A further site meeting took place between the 
contractor and the loss adjuster but theres been no sign of a further schedule.Mr S and Ms S feel the further recent delays are down to Coveas loss adjuster and would 
like this service to consider this.
Mr S and Ms S have confirmed Covea provided details of surveyors and one has now been 
picked and so hopefully their appointment is imminent.
Covea didnt respond to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator responded to Mr S and Ms S to confirm that the later delays arent 
something I can consider as part of this complaint. But if Mr S and Ms S wish to they can ask 
Covea to review these delays as part of a new complaint.
Im pleased to see a surveyor has been picked and I hope Covea can arrange for the 
inspection and report to take place as soon as possible.
Theres no detail in the responses to my provisional decision that make me think I need to 
change anything so my provisional decision will now become my final decision.
Putting things right
pay for and jointly appoint with Mr S and Ms S an independent expert engineer to inspect 
and report on damaged wall claim.
both parties will be bound by the expert report findings and solutions put forward to 
resolve the claim.
If the independent expert recommends Covea should cover the claim for the garden wall 
then Mr S and Ms S should present the available evidence to demonstrate what loss of 
rent they reasonably and unavoidably suffered as a result of the loss of attraction caused 
by the damage to the garden wall.
Covea should then cover the reasonable loss of rent claim together with interest at 8%* 
simple per annum (less tax if appropriate) from the date of loss until the date of 
settlement.
if the independent expert concludes that the garden wall was damaged due to an 
uninsured cause  then a loss of rent claim due to loss of attraction should not succeed.
And I wont require Covea to take any further action over this matter.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Covea Insurance plc to:
pay for and jointly appoint with Mr S and Ms S an independent expert engineer to inspect 
and report on damaged wall claim.
both parties will be bound by the expert report findings and solutions put forward to 
resolve the claim.
If the independent expert recommends Covea should cover the claim for the garden wall 
then Mr S and Ms S should present the available evidence to demonstrate what loss of 
rent they reasonably and unavoidably suffered as a result of the loss of attraction caused by the damage to the garden wall.
Covea should then cover the reasonable loss of rent claim together with interest at 8%* 
simple per annum (less tax if appropriate) from the date of loss until the date of 
settlement.
if the independent expert concludes that the garden wall was damaged due to an 
uninsured cause  then a loss of rent claim due to loss of attraction should not succeed.
And I wont require Covea to take any further action over this matter.
*If interest on the rent is payable and Covea Insurance plc considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S and Ms S 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S and Ms S a certificate showing this if they 
ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P and P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman