DRN-3830266
The complaint
Miss K complains Bank of Scotland plc (Bank of Scotland) insisted she spoke to it on the
phone to arrange a repayment plan for her arrears, despite advising it she is hearing
impaired. Miss K is also unhappy Bank of Scotland sent a field agent to her home during the
coronavirus, Covid-19, pandemic (the pandemic).
What happened
Miss K held a mortgage with Bank of Scotland which was in arrears.
Miss K informed Bank of Scotland around October 2019 that she has a hearing impairment
which makes it difficult for her to speak on the phone. She asked Bank of Scotland to
communicate with her in writing instead. Miss K says she was surprised Bank of Scotland
didnt offer alternative methods such as email or web chat, but ultimately said she would
prefer to communicate by letter.
Miss K says Bank of Scotland didnt acknowledge a proposal she had made to repay her
arrears, and that it continued to ask her to speak to it on the phone. She says all of the other
methods of communication it suggested were not appropriate.
Miss K feels she incurred greater financial loss because Bank of Scotland refused to come
to a repayment agreement by letter. Shes also unhappy because she discovered a card had
been left at her home by a field agent Bank of Scotland asked to attend her home. She says
Bank of Scotland broke the governments guidelines for the pandemic at the time.
Bank of Scotland looked into Miss Ks complaint, but it didnt think it had done anything
wrong. It said it had provided a number of alternative options to allow Miss K to discuss the
account with it. That until Miss K discussed the account, she would continue to be chased for
the arrears and her account was due to be reviewed by its legal team.
Our investigator thought Bank of Scotland had offered reasonable adjustments to Miss K
and that the pandemic rules at the time permitted Bank of Scotland to send a field agent to
her home. Miss K didnt agree, so the complaint was referred to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on 18 January 2023. Below is an extract of what I said: 
Miss K describes herself as hearing impaired. Its unclear to what extent Miss Ks hearing
loss affects her day-to-day, but Bank of Scotland seemed to accept what Miss K said about
this.
Under the Equality Act 2010, banks should make reasonable adjustments so that customers
with disabilities can use their services. And considering what Miss Ks said about her hearing
loss, I think theres enough information to indicate Bank of Scotland would be expected to
make reasonable adjustments for Miss K as soon as it was made aware of her hearing loss.
Ive looked carefully at Bank of Scotlands contact records and it appears Miss K told it about
her disability in October 2019. So, Im satisfied Bank of Scotland was aware of Miss Ks
disability by then, and I would expect it to have made reasonable adjustments for her from
then onwards.
Miss K informed Bank of Scotland that her preference would be to communicate by letter,
and at the time, Bank of Scotland said communication would need to be by phone or letter.
So, as Miss K had already explained she couldnt speak on the phone, and letters were her
preference, letters should then have been the most reasonable method of communication for
both parties.
Bank of Scotland offered a number of alternative communication methods to Miss K in the
various correspondence it sent. It offered her a Text Relay service, which she attempted to
use. But Miss K reported that the numbers provided didnt work. Bank of Scotlands records
show it tested the numbers it sent her and also found the numbers didnt work. I understand
it provided Miss K with a different number it had tested and that did work, but I havent seen
where Bank of Scotland explained this to Miss K and she continued to believe she couldnt
use the service each time it was offered to her.
Miss K was also encouraged to go to her local branch. Miss K explained that her nearest
branch had been closed and she didnt have a car to access branches further afield. Im not
sure how difficult it would be for Miss K to attend a branch  it does appear theres an open
branch less than 20 minutes walk away. But Miss K had explained she didnt feel
comfortable going to a branch because of her hearing loss. She said it would be just as
difficult to talk to someone face to face as it would be on the phone, particularly in a branch
setting. Looking at her nearest branch, it appears it was in a central location and would more
likely than not have been fairly busy. Miss K also mentioned that she was shielding due to
the pandemic. So, I think its reasonable Miss K was concerned about discussing the arrears
in a branch and that her preference to communicate by letter remained.
Miss K was also advised she could use a sign language service online. But Miss K said she
doesnt know how to sign, which isnt surprising considering she seems to have lost her
hearing fairly recently. I note Bank of Scotland also mentioned lip reading, but for the same
reasons I think its understandable Miss K wouldnt have been able to communicate in sign, I
also think she may not have been able to lip read. So, while I think Bank of Scotland was
right to offer all of the alternative options available, it seems to me that Miss K had some
valid reasons for rejecting the alternative options offered to her and I can understand why
she persisted in wanting to reach an agreement by letter.
Even though Bank of Scotland had previously said it could correspond by letter, it seemed
reluctant to do so and Ive seen correspondence where it says any repayment plan would
need to be formed as part of a two-way conversation which cant be had by letter. It
suggested that this was a regulatory requirement. And it seems this is why Bank of Scotland
continued to ask Miss K to use other methods which she had already explained werent
accessible to her.Our investigator, on my behalf, asked Bank of Scotland to confirm what regulatory
requirement it was referring to. While Bank of Scotland explained why a two-way
conversation would have allowed it to reach an agreement more easily, it hasnt been able to
point to any regulation that says this couldnt have been done by letter.
Ive thought about this carefully, and I can understand why a back and forth conversation
would ordinarily be helpful to form a suitable arrangement. I also appreciate communicating
by letter would more likely than not have slowed down the process. But I dont think
persistently asking Miss K to phone Bank of Scotland, when she has already explained she
cant, is fair. For example, the most recent final response letter sent in June 2021 said:
please get in touch with our Customer Financial Assistance Team on (phone number) to
discuss your options further While the account has been in arrears, we have attempted to
contact you via phone calls without success and have sent letters requesting contact and
payment arrangements from you. I feel we have acted correctly in doing this, and although I
appreciate you do not wish to speak to us over the phone, this is the easiest means for us to
make plans with you for your accounts.
I appreciate that, on occasion, automatic letters may be issued that provide contact numbers
for Miss K to call. But the final response letter is a tailored letter written specifically to
address Miss Ks concerns. And even in this letter, while mentioning Miss Ks hearing loss,
Bank of Scotland still advised her to make a phone call and said that this would be the
easiest method of communication.
Given Miss K has declared her hearing loss multiple times and has said that speaking on the
phone is no longer possible for her, I can understand why she would find responses like this
distressing. Speaking on the phone will clearly not be the easiest means of communication
for someone with hearing loss. And Im not satisfied Bank of Scotland has handled the
situation as well as it should have. Although its necessary for Bank of Scotland to chase the
arrears on the account, Im not persuaded it has always understood or been considerate
enough of Miss Ks disability.
 
That said, I dont think the arrears would have been paid off any sooner than they were. I say
this because Miss K explained she was waiting to receive inheritance from her late father
and that she would use this to bring her account up to date. Miss K also said her other option
was to sell the property. So, from what Miss K has said, I think it would have been difficult for
her to have cleared the arrears any sooner than she did. So, for this reason, I dont intend to
ask Bank of Scotland to refund any of the additional fees or charges Miss K incurred during
the period she was unable to settle the arrears on her account. And, as Miss K was unable
to immediately clear her arrears, I also think Bank of Scotland was entitled to send a field
agent to the property.
I understand Miss K feels strongly it was inappropriate for a field agent to attend her home
during the pandemic, but Im satisfied that by April 2021 the restrictions in place allowed for
this to be done. Bank of Scotland issued a letter dated 6 April 2021 to inform Miss K it had
instructed a field agent, and on the same day, the Scottish Government updated guidance
around the pandemic. The guidance Ive read suggests the rules were loosening further, but
from what I can gather, a field agent visit would have been allowed prior to 6 April 2021. So,
I dont uphold this part of Miss Ks complaint, but as Ive said, I do understand why Miss K
would have been alarmed about someone attending her home, particularly as she had
mentioned shed been shielding.Based on everything Ive seen, I think Bank of Scotland was right to offer Miss K alternative 
methods of communication, but when she explained why those methods werent reasonable 
in her particular circumstances, I think it should have communicated with her by letter as it 
had previously offered to do.
I think Bank of Scotland caused avoidable upset to Miss K by continuing to ask her to phone,
even in tailored letters, such as the final response letter. Its clear from what Miss K has told
us that she has found this distressing. So, I think Miss K should receive some compensation
for this and I provisionally consider £250 to be a fair award.
I dont uphold the other parts of Miss Ks complaint as I dont think she could have cleared
her arrears any sooner than she did. And I think Bank of Scotland was within its rights to
send a field agent to her home when it did.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following my provisional decision, Bank of Scotland plc agreed to pay the £250 
compensation I recommended and made no further comments. 
Miss K also responded and raised the following points:
If shed been able to communicate by letter from the end of 2019, she would have 
been able to reach a repayment plan much sooner. Miss K says this would have 
reduced the demand letters and avoided any visits, which would have reduced the 
level of stress she went through.
She had access to funds from her late fathers estate with approval from the 
executor. So, she could have made monthly payments and did offer to pay a 20% 
lump sum, followed by a monthly amount. Miss K says Bank of Scotland didnt 
respond to this letter. 
Miss K wasnt able to set up a repayment plan until she was able to send an income 
and expenditure form to Bank of Scotlands solicitors by letter. Miss K then made 
regular payments for six months, after which she repaid the arrears in full. Miss K 
says if Bank of Scotland had allowed her to do this sooner, she could have avoided 
further stress, harm and costs would have been reduced.
Miss K also says the £250 I recommended is extremely low and that Bank of 
Scotland wouldnt notice it. Miss K feels this isnt enough to ensure Bank of Scotland 
changes its behavior towards disabled customers.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss K has said and I know shell likely be disappointed, 
but my findings remain the same as my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
I saw the offer Miss K made by letter during my initial review of her complaint. I agree that 
Miss K was attempting to reach a solution with Bank of Scotland. And I know Bank of 
Scotland didnt acknowledge the offer, instead it continued to request alternative 
communication methods were used. Ive thought about this, and as I found in my provisional decision, Bank of Scotland should 
have eventually agreed to communicate by letter. But further exchanges and possibly proof 
of funds would have been necessary for Bank of Scotland to put an arrangement in place. 
And its very difficult for me to say that a suitable arrangement would have been reached 
considering the funds werent immediately accessible, even if the solicitors managed to 
reach an agreement later on. 
Miss K has explained she was able to make monthly payments for six months and then 
eventually repaid the arrears in full after Bank of Scotlands solicitor got involved. Im 
pleased Miss K was able to sort out an arrangement at this point, but I havent seen enough 
to persuade me this would have been possible much earlier, especially given Miss K wasnt 
making regular contributions to her mortgage prior to this.
Miss K also accepts that she wouldnt have been able to make her full contractual monthly 
payments or pay off the arrears in full until her late Fathers estate was settled. So, I think its 
more likely than not Bank of Scotland would have continued to pursue her for the 
outstanding amount, including referring her case to its solicitors. 
Miss K did ultimately owe a large sum, and I think this will have caused her significant stress 
regardless of how Bank of Scotland communicated with her. Of course, I still acknowledge 
that Bank of Scotland could have handled things better, but I dont think its entirely 
responsible for all the stresses Miss K would have been under at the time. 
When Im considering a complaint like Miss Ks, I need to think about what a fair amount of 
compensation to award for distress and inconvenience is, bearing in mind our awards arent 
intended to fine or punish a business. I appreciate Miss K wants Bank of Scotland to learn 
from this, and I hope it does too. But the ombudsman service is an informal dispute 
resolution service, we dont regulate the financial services industry  thats the role of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. So, while I can recognise the impact any mistakes made by the 
business had on Miss K, I cant award significant sums in order to punish it. In addition, 
given our informal role, our awards are often lower than you might expect to receive from a 
more formal process, such as the courts.
I have reviewed all of the correspondence on file and as I explained in my provisional 
decision, I think Bank of Scotland was right to offer alternative methods of communication to 
Miss K, and I think some of those alternatives would have allowed other customers to reach 
an agreement more quickly. But, in Miss Ks particular circumstances, I found that ultimately 
other communication methods werent right for her. After this was established, I dont think 
Bank of Scotland should have persisted asking her to speak to it on the phone and so for 
that, I think £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused is fair. 
If Miss K accepts my final decision, Bank of Scotland should put things right as set out 
below.
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland plc should pay Miss K £250.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman