DRN-4370839
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) failed to appropriately 
resolve a leak at their property which resulted in more damage being caused by a second 
leak.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Bs home insurance policy is underwritten by UKI. It includes a section of cover 
for home emergencies. 
On 22 January 2023, Mr and Mrs B reported a claim for a leak underneath their bath. They 
explained that they had isolated the water supply using the stop tap, but this had caused the 
handle of the stop tap to break.
UKIs repair agent attended on 23 January 2023. They removed the bath panel and noted 
the pipe had popped out of its fitting, causing the leak. They rehoused the pipe, tested the 
supply and noted no further leaks. They also confirmed the stop tap had no handle but was 
still operational and able to be turned using grips.
Following this, a second leak caused the kitchen ceiling to collapse later the same day. The 
engineer reattended, fixed the second leak and installed a new stop tap handle.
Mr and Mrs B complain that due to the stop tap handle not being repaired after the first leak, 
their property suffered additional damage and they had to pay their home insurance excess 
to get the damage repaired. They want UKI to cover the excess they paid.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. She said 
Mr and Mrs Bs home emergency cover was there to stop the emergency  the leak. She 
said the evidence supported that the engineer fixed the initial leak and didnt support that he 
was responsible for the second leak. She said the stop tap was operational, and the lack of 
handle wouldnt have caused or contributed to the second leak.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, as no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach the same overall outcome as our investigator. But because I also 
intended to award a small amount of compensation for a missed appointment, I issued a 
provisional decision to give the parties the opportunity to respond before I reached my final 
decision. Heres what I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach broadly the same outcome as our 
investigator. But, unlike our investigator, I am also minded to award a small amount 
of compensation. So, because the outcome Im reaching is slightly different, Im 
issuing a provisional decision to give everyone the opportunity to respond, before I 
reach my final decision.
There have been several businesses involved in this claim and complaint acting as 
either agents or representatives of UKI. So, any reference to UKI in my decision 
includes its agents or representatives.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy provides the following cover for home emergencies involving 
internal plumbing:
Youre covered for
 Plumbing and drainage
We will pay the cost of emergency assistance needed for an emergency 
involving:
internal plumbing and drainage
underground external drainage for which you are legally responsible.
The policy also provides specific definitions for emergency and emergency 
assistance, which are:
Emergency (section 5) 
An incident in the home that happens during the period of Insurance and 
which needs to be dealt with quickly to avoid:
> making the home unsafe or insecure for you
> damaging the home and its contents, or
> the home losing its main source of heating, lighting or water (hot or cold).
Emergency assistance (section 5) 
Work carried out by an authorised repairer to temporarily or permanently deal 
with an emergency, carry out emergency repairs or prevent further damage.
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs Bs property suffered an emergency, or that UKI 
provided emergency assistance within a reasonable time. The issue I need to decide 
is whether the emergency assistance provided was adequate, or whether it likely 
resulted in or contributed to, the second leak and more significant damage.
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that the stop tap wasnt repaired during the initial repair. 
They also say the engineer didnt test the repair by running the taps.
The contemporaneous claim notes Ive seen explain the actions taken by the 
engineer:
Visit Note: Leak in bathroom somewhere, removed tiled bath panel and plinth 
on vanity unit found leak was a pipe that popped out of fitting rehoused pipe 
and got water back on tested and no more leaks present. Stop cock had no 
handle on but still operational just turned off with grips and back on
In situations like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ill make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is more likely than not, 
based on the evidence which is available.Given there is a written record, from the date of the incident, which supports the 
engineers version of events, I find this to be more persuasive that Mr and Mrs Bs 
recollections. Particularly as I find it unlikely that an engineer/plumber wouldnt run 
the taps to check that their repair to a leaking pipe had been successful.
Based on the record of works carried out during the first visit, Im satisfied that UKI 
provided emergency assistance, as defined, as the engineer resolved the emergency 
situation. I appreciate the stop tap was left without a handle. But that alone wouldnt 
constitute an emergency situation because it wasnt causing damage or creating an 
unsafe situation  as it was still operational.
I appreciate that a second leak occurred shortly afterward, and that it was more 
difficult to isolate the water supply because of the handle issue. However, I 
understand that Mr and Mrs B were able to isolate the supply by borrowing a spanner 
from their neighbour. 
Ultimately, I havent seen any persuasive evidence to suggest that the repair to the 
first leak wasnt successful, or that it caused or contributed to the second leak. So, I 
cant reasonably conclude that the engineer failed to resolve the first emergency. 
The second emergency only became apparent when the kitchen ceiling collapsed. 
So, even if the stop tap handle had been repaired on the first visit (which I dont think 
it needed to be in order for the emergency situation to have been resolved) the 
second leak still would have caused significant damage by the time it was 
discovered. This means the stop tap issue isnt the reason Mr and Mrs B made a 
claim on their home insurance for the damage caused by the second leak, which 
means they would always have been required to pay the policy excess. In these 
circumstances, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable for me to hold UKI 
responsible for the second leak or to direct it to cover Mr and Mrs Bs home 
insurance excess.
Mr and Mrs B also raised concerns about delays in UKIs handling of their combined 
claims for the emergency situations and the subsequent escape of water damage. It 
took around four months from the point of the leak for the damage claim to be 
concluded.
UKI says it told Mr and Mrs B that using its network contractor might be slower than 
taking a cash settlement and/or using a local contractor. It also says the property 
required drying, which cant be rushed, and that there was a small delay while 
awaiting delivery of materials which were outside of its control. UKI also says some 
delays during the claim were due to it waiting for decisions or preferences from 
Mr and Mrs B and that there was a non-claim related electrical wiring issue which 
caused some delays, until it agreed to cover the issue as a gesture of goodwill to 
keep the claim moving.Mr and Mrs B say UKIs contractor failed to diagnose issues with de-bonded floor 
tiles and was reluctant to do the tiling works which meant they had to arrange this 
themselves. They also say there were times where UKIs contractors missed 
appointments.
Ive thought carefully about everything both sides have said and provided about the 
overall level of service. Ive also listened to the call between UKI and Mr B where he 
was advised that using the network contractor would be the slowest route to 
completion of the works, which he accepted. 
Taking everything into account, Ive not been persuaded that the reason the claim 
took as long as did to conclude was because of something UKI or its agents did 
wrong. Mr and Mrs B were clearly advised the network contractor route would take 
additional time and its clear that the drying and non-claim related electrical issue 
added time to the claim  neither of which would be something I could reasonably 
hold UKI responsible for. I also note that UKI disagrees with Mr and Mrs Bs 
suggestion that its contractor wasnt prepared to deal with the floor tiling. Instead, 
UKI says the contractor was willing to do the works, but Mr and Mrs B provided their 
own quote, which UKI approved despite the costs being higher than it could have 
completed the work for via the network contractor.
Based on the above, Im not intending to award any compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the length of time the claim took to conclude, as I dont 
believe there were avoidable or unreasonable delays caused solely by UKI.
 
However, Mr and Mrs B have also complained that one of UKIs appointed 
contractors missed two appointments, which meant Mrs B missed two days of work 
unnecessarily. UKI says there was only one missed appointment. But it says its 
unable to check the contractors system to see whether this was communicated to 
Mr and Mrs B or not. 
As explained previously, where evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ill make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities, based on the evidence which is available.
Ive seen an email from Mr B to the contractor complaining that an appointment was 
missed that day. Based on this, I consider it more likely than not that the contractor 
missed an appointment without giving prior notice, which would no doubt have been 
unduly inconvenient to Mr and Mrs B. So, unless further evidence in response to my 
provisional decision changes my mind, Im intending to direct UKI to pay Mr and 
Mrs B £50 to compensate them for the impact of this missed appointment.
I asked all parties to send me any further comments or evidence they wanted me to consider 
before I reached my final decision.
Mr and Mrs B provided additional comments explaining why they disagreed with my 
provisional findings. In summary they said:They maintain the stop tap ought to have been replaced on the first visit given its 
purpose. Had it been, they say the damage in the second claim would have been 
greatly reduced.
The plumber did not water test the taps and shower mixers following the first repair, 
in line with good practice.
They had issues with UKI failing to clean up or collect the drying equipment. The 
latter point they say prevented them from using their kitchen for an extended period.
They feel the compensation Ive suggested is insulting.
UKI didnt provide a response, and the deadline to do so has now passed, so Im moving 
forward with my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered Mr and Mrs Bs response to my provisional decision. But 
having done so, my conclusions remain unchanged. Ill explain why.
In my provisional decision I specifically considered and addressed Mr and Mrs Bs concerns 
about the stop tap and the plumber not testing the taps after the initial repair. So, these 
points theyve raised in response to the provisional decision arent new and have already 
been thought about at length.
 
Nothing in Mr and Mrs Bs response has persuaded me that my provisional findings on these 
points were unfair or unreasonable. So, my decision on these points remains that same as 
outlined in my provisional decision  and for the same reasons.
Mr and Mrs B have said UKI delayed in cleaning their property and in collecting the drying 
equipment, which rendered their kitchen unusable for a period. Ive not previously seen any 
reference to this issue within the complaint file. Ive not seen that this has been raised with 
UKI or our service prior to now. And crucially, this point hasnt been considered or addressed 
by UKI as part of its final response to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, which means Ill not be able 
to consider or answer that point as part of this complaint.
Should Mr and Mrs B remain unhappy about this element of their claim, theyll need to raise 
it as a new complaint with UKI in the first instance. Should they remain unhappy with UKIs 
response to their new complaint, theyll be able to refer it to our service for consideration, 
subject to our normal rules.
Im sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs B are insulted by the level of compensation I provisionally 
awarded. But this seems to be because theyre considering the compensation against the 
length of time the claim took overall, and all the issues theyve suggested UKI has caused. 
However, as explained in my provisional decision, Ive not agreed that UKI have caused all 
the issues Mr and Mrs B have complained about, or that it has caused unnecessary or 
unreasonable delays. Instead, the £50 Ive recommended is solely for the impact of its agent 
missing an appointment. And I remain of the view that £50 is enough to fairly, and 
reasonably, compensate for the impact of this error in isolation.
It follows that Ill not be amending my provisional findings or awarding any additional 
compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in part. 
UK Insurance Limited must pay them £50 to compensate them for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the missed appointment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman