DRN-1573904
 
The complaint
Miss W complains that Starling Bank Limited won't refund a payment made to an airline 
when it didn't provide the service she'd paid for. She thinks the bank should have done more 
to dispute the payment.
What happened
In July 2019 Miss W booked a flight. She paid £299, using her debit card issued by Starling 
Bank. She says she understood from the airline that she could check in up to three bags 
weighing no more than 23kg each. After she had booked her flight, however, the airline said 
that the total maximum allowance was 30kg; she had bags weighing 40kg in total. 
Consequently, she had to book a different flight - costing more - and a hotel. 
Miss W asked Starling Bank to seek a refund from the airline. It said it wasn't able to help, as 
the flight that Miss W had booked was non-refundable. Unless there was confirmation from 
the airline that it had agreed a refund but hadn't paid it, there were no grounds on which it 
could properly dispute the payment. It paid Miss W £30 because it hadn't provided her with 
updates about the dispute, but didn't feel it needed to do any more.   
Miss W referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered it. She 
thought that Starling Bank had been within its rights to decide not to pursue matters with the 
airline. She thought it unlikely that the airline had agreed to a refund in circumstances where 
its booking terms said that the booking was non-refundable. 
Miss W didn't accept the investigator's conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, however, I've reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Chargeback is a means of resolving certain types of payment dispute between cardholders 
and merchants - in this case Miss W and the airline. It's run by the relevant card scheme, 
which in this case was Mastercard. This service generally takes the view that a card issuer 
isn't under any obligation to raise a chargeback dispute but, as a matter of good practice, 
should do so where there's a reasonable chance of recovery. 
Miss W's dispute with the airline in this case arose because of what she says she was told 
about the baggage allowance and about a refund. There is however no written evidence on 
either of those matters. That doesn't mean of course either that Miss W wasn't misled about 
her baggage allowance or that she wasn't promised a refund. It's possible that she was 
misled and that the airline did say it would provide a refund, although that would be contrary 
to its published literature. I share the investigator's view however that Starling Bank was right to take the view that 
there wasn't sufficient evidence to enable it to submit a valid chargeback request. Had it 
done so, it's unlikely it would have been successful. In my view, it was reasonable of the 
bank to decline to pursue things any further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Starling Bank Limited to take nay further steps to 
resolve Miss W's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman