DRN-3197627
The complaint
Mr R says Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (SLoC) invested his 
pension contributions in funds that didnt match his attitude to risk (ATR). He says this has 
caused him financial detriment.
Mr R is represented by Etico Group Limited (Etico).
What happened
In bringing a complaint on behalf of Mr R, I start by noting that Etico raised concerns about 
three pension policies he had with SLoC. Two of these related to plans established with 
funds from an occupational pension scheme (OPS) hed been a member of. These are the 
subject of a separate complaint.
This decision focuses on the personal pension plan that Mr R set-up in April 1990 into which 
he would make monthly contributions. For the purposes of clarity, that plan reference 
includes the following digits ***-***652-*4.
SLoC has confirmed that in April 1990 Mr R met with its adviser to talk about his finances. 
His main objective was to consider his pension arrangements. The fact-find and 
recommendation report completed by the adviser at the time recorded his circumstances, 
objectives and ATR.
Mr R was advised to start a personal pension plan. It was agreed to begin with a gross 
monthly contribution of £20, which was invested in four different funds. In July 1991, his 
contributions increased to around £32 per month. And in December 1994, Mr R secured 
employment and his employer took on the monthly contributions to his pension plan and 
increased these to £50.
On 3 May 2002, Mr R transferred his pension to AIG Life (UK).
In July 2020 Etico complained to SLoC on behalf of Mr R about what had happened in 1990. 
It said the funds he ended up putting his pension contributions into werent appropriate for 
his risk appetite.
SLoC issued its final response letter in August 2020. It said:
I have considered all of the information carefully and I believe this plan was suitable and 
[am] unable to uphold the complaint. This is because the documents completed when you 
started this plan showed you wanted to make further pension provisions and as you were 
self-employed there would be no occupational pension scheme available for you to join 
through an employer. Therefore as you did not have the alternative of contributing to a 
pension scheme with your employer and as you wanted to save for your retirement, I believe 
that starting a personal pension plan was a good option to save for your future.
Etico was unhappy with the response. It said SLoCs review had been about the general 
suitability of a personal pension for Mr R. It had no disagreement with the importance of 
setting up a pension plan at the time because hed been self-employed. But it didnt think the 
issue of investment choice had been addressed, so it brought the case to this Service.
The Investigator considered the evidence and upheld Mr Rs complaint. He thought the 
funds hed been invested in were beyond his risk appetite. SLoC disagreed and so the case 
has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The events complained about happened in 1990. Memories can and do fade. And its 
perhaps inevitable given the passage of a third of a century that I dont have perfect 
information to review. Im also mindful of the dynamic regulatory position over that time. The 
way things must be done today isnt necessarily the way things could be done 32 years ago.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr R s complaint. Ill explain why.
On review of SLoCs final response letter to Mr R, it acknowledges its adviser wouldve 
provided him with recommendations to take out the pension plan. So, Ive proceeded on that 
basis.
At the time of the advice, SLoCs predecessor was a member of the Life Assurance and Unit 
Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). Its code placed certain requirement on advisers, 
including that they:
- Exercised due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors.
- Gave best advice, including giving the investor all relevant information and using 
best endeavours to enable the investor to understand the nature of any risks 
involved.
- Should have regard, in particular, to the investors financial position generally, to any 
rights they may have under SERPS and to use best endeavours to ensure that only 
those contracts which are suited to that investor were recommended.
Ive kept these regulatory requirements in mind when considering Mr R s case.
I cant know what was discussed between the adviser and Mr R over 30 years ago. I dont 
know what was covered, in how much depth or in what way. However, there are some 
documents available from the time. These include the fact-find and an application to open a 
SLoC personal pension.
The fact-find recorded the following about Mr Rs circumstances, objectives and attitude to 
risk:- Mr R was aged 22 and a non-smoker. He was self-employed and earning £10,000 as 
a Will Drafter.
- He wanted to retire at 55. He wanted to start saving for his pension and had an 
available monthly budget for this of up to £25.
- Mr R didnt have significant savings. He had no investments. He owned his own 
property and there was an outstanding mortgage of approximately £26,000.
- His attitude to investment risk was recorded as 3. The spectrum was from 1 (lower, 
but secure growth) to 5 (higher growth or loss potential).
- Mr R was a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS) with a former 
employer, where hed accrued some deferred benefits.
Mr R accepted SLoCs recommendations and signed an application to start a personal 
pension in April 1990. The adviser recorded that contributions were to be invested in the 
following funds:
- Aggressive Managed 4 Pension  50%
- Cautious Managed 2 Pension  25%
- European Pension  12%
- 2nd Japan Pension  13%
Etico said the investments made werent a match for Mr Rs risk appetite. In its final 
response to him, SLoC said:
As this is a long-term investment you may have been willing to accept some risk and the 
funds you have selected are in line with this attitude to risk. You had 38 years until 
retirement and therefore I believe you would have been prepared to take some risk during 
that time. The Product Particulars and Terms and Conditions would have made you aware 
you could switch funds. Your adviser would have provided a factsheet showing the funds 
available and whether they were low, medium or high risk. As more than 1 fund has been 
selected I believe some discussion of the funds would have taken place.
I dont think theres any debate between the parties that establishing a personal pension plan 
was the right thing for Mr R to do. At the time he was self-employed and potentially he had 
nearly 40 years ahead of him in the workplace. As such, accepting some volatility within his 
portfolio wouldve been appropriate. And the risk appetite assessment for Mr R placed him in 
the middle of the scale, 3 from 5. So he was prepared to take risk to achieve long-term 
investment returns  a balanced outlook. I think this was about right.
SLoC says Mr R was provided with fact-sheets that wouldve allowed him to make an 
informed decision. It also says there wouldve been a discussion before the investment 
choices were made. However, this was an advised sale, so the onus was on its adviser to 
make a positive recommendation. And I think that its more likely than not this is whats 
reflected in the application from April 1990.
The problem for SLoC, is Mr Rs funds were invested in excess of his risk outlook. From the 
information on file, I can see 75% of his funds were placed in holdings that were high risk.
At the time of the advice in 1990, Mr R had little investment experience or knowledge of 
pensions. It was for SLoC to have advised him effectively about how he should proceed. 
Based on the available evidence I think it failed to do so and as a result he ended up 
investing in a portfolio of funds that taken together were inappropriate for him.Putting things right
My aim is to put Mr R as close as reasonably possible to the position he wouldve been in 
now if hed been given suitable advice. I think he wouldve invested differently. Its not 
possible to say precisely what he wouldve done, but Im satisfied that he wanted capital 
growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr R's 
circumstances and risk attitude.
I require Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited to put things right in the 
following manner:
-Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value (what the investment wouldve been worth at the end date 
had it produced a return using the benchmark) is greater than the actual value (the 
actual amount paid from the investment at the end date), there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable. 
-If there is a loss, SLoC should also pay any interest on it as set out below, to allow 
for Mr R for being deprived of the use of those funds from the end date.
-SLoC should pay any loss into Mr R's pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. Its payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. It shouldnt pay the compensation 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
-If SLoC is unable to pay the compensation into Mr R's pension plan, it should pay 
the amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve 
provided a taxable income. So, the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
-The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if hes likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would 
equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr R wouldve been able to take a 
tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
investment 
namestatus Benchmark from 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
***-
***652-*4 transferredFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income 
Total 
Return 
Indexdate of 
investmentdate 
transferred8% simple 
per year on 
any loss 
from the 
end date 
until the 
date of 
settlementAny additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. And any withdrawal, income or other 
distribution out of the investment should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was 
actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. 
SLoC should also pay Mr R £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its failings.
SLoC should provide the details of the calculation to Mr R in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If SLoC considers its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R 
how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC.
Further information
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by typing compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our 
website: www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. I now require Sun Life 
Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited to put things right in the way Ive outlined
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman