DRN-2646786
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about an insurance policy he held with Aviva Insurance Limited. The 
policy covered his photographic equipment, which was stolen from his car. Mr L is unhappy 
that Aviva declined his claim for the theft.
What happened
Mr L took out a policy in the middle of 2019 for his photographic equipment. The policy 
document he was sent highlighted the following exclusion for theft:
Loss or damage by theft
i) from any unattended vehicle unless the equipment is concealed from view and the 
vehicle is securely locked and all security devices set 
The terms and conditions went into slightly more detail:
(6) Theft from Unattended Vehicles
You must ensure that when Technical Equipment is left unattended inside any road vehicle 
that;
(i) the vehicle is securely locked and all security devices set into operation
(ii) the technical equipment is concealed from view
In late 2019 Mr L placed his photographic equipment in the boot of his car. The parcel shelf 
was removed as the equipment wouldnt fit with it in place, but Mr L covered the equipment 
with a black cloth/sheet.  The car was broken into and the equipment was stolen.
Mr L made a claim to Aviva. The claim was declined because Aviva wasnt persuaded the 
relevant policy condition had been complied with  the sheet didnt conceal the existence of 
items, just what they were. It explained that to conceal something was to hide it  to remove 
it from observation, which covering the items with a sheet hadnt done. In addition, it 
commented that Mr L had been unable to provide the sheet he had used to cover the items. 
Mr L wasnt happy with Avivas decision and complained.
Aviva responded to Mr Ls complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It said that it didnt consider the 
precautions taken to conceal the equipment were enough as it would have been apparent 
from looking through the car window there were items in the boot and the attempt to cover 
them could have indicated to thieves that they were of value.
When Mr L asked this service to consider his complaint, he said that both he and his broker 
consider the claim to be valid and the wording on the insurance policy to be wrong.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Mr L didnt accept the investigators opinion and asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The items Mr L has claimed for were stolen from an unattended vehicle. As such, I must 
decide whether he complied with the requirement for such situations; that the items be 
concealed from view. I am not persuaded that he did. 
To conceal an item in a car, we would expect that item to be stored in such a way as to 
mean that it wasnt visible from outside the car  hidden from view - for example in a glove 
compartment or in a boot with a parcel shelf in place. I acknowledge that Mr L had covered 
the items so their exact nature couldnt be identified, but it would still have been clear from 
outside the car that the items existed.  I am not satisfied the actions Mr L took were sufficient 
to comply with the policy requirement of concealing the items when left in an unattended 
vehicle. As such, I dont consider Aviva was wrong when it declined the claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 
17 August 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman