DRN-3783510
The complaint
Mr T complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) declined a claim 
involving a named driver on his policy and is pursuing him for the third-party costs, under his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr T says he was away from home and his partner (at the time) decided 
to drive his car. The car didnt have an MOT. Whilst driving Mr Ts car, his partner was 
involved in an accident. She was determined to be at fault. 
Watford wrote to Mr T later in September 2018 to say it was not indemnifying him for any 
claim that arises as a result of the incident when his partner was driving the car. It says its 
policy doesnt provide cover in these circumstances. Watford advised it would be pursuing 
Mr T to recover any payments it is required to make by law to any third-party. 
In July 2022 Watford wrote to Mr T to say that under the Road Traffic Act it is obligated to 
settle any third-party claim made against its policyholder. The cost of settling the claim came 
to £84,463.05. Watford asked Mr T to pay this amount. 
Mr T didnt think this was fair and submitted a complaint. Watford didnt change its mind, so 
he asked our service to consider the matter. Our investigator decided to uphold his 
complaint. She says although the policy terms allow a claim to be declined in the absence of 
an MOT, she didnt think Watfords decline decision was fair in these circumstances. 
Our investigator says its only reasonable to rely on this term if the absence of an MOT was 
material to the incident that gave rise to the claim. She says Watford hadnt shown that Mr 
Ts car wouldnt have passed an MOT. So, she didnt think itd shown that this had a material 
impact on the accident that happened in September 2018. Because of this she thought 
Watford should reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and pay Mr T 
£350 compensation for the distress he experienced. 
Watford disagreed with this outcome. It thought its decision to decline the claim was fair. It 
asked for an ombudsman to consider Mr Ts complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Let me explain. 
There is no dispute that Mr Ts partner (now ex-partner) was driving his car when the 
accident occurred in September 2018. I cant see that Mr T is disputing his ex-partner was at 
fault for the accident. So, I neednt consider these points further. My remit here is to consider 
whether Watford behaved fairly when declining to indemnify Mr T for the costs incurred as a 
result of the accident, under his policy. 
In its response to Mr Ts complaint Watford refers to the following excerpt from his policy 
terms. The section relating to, General Exclusions says:
This Policy does not cover the following:
- used in an unsafe or unroadworthy condition or, where such regulations require, does not 
have a current MOT Certificate;
- any loss, damage or liability when Your Car is involved in any incident regardless of type, 
be that Accident, Fire, Malicious Damage, Theft or attempted theft and does not have a valid 
MOT Certificate in force at the time of the incident. 
Watford has supplied information obtained by its underwriters when it was considering the 
claim. This shows a current MOT wasnt in place. The evidence provided shows the MOT 
expired in June 2018, which was around three months prior to the date of the accident. 
Ive thought about whether it was fair for Watford to rely on its policy terms in order not to 
indemnify Mr T in these circumstances. I accept no MOT was in place. But I dont think this 
means Watford acted fairly in deciding not to cover the cost of the claim.
When considering this point, Ive thought about the industry guidelines as set out in the 
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). This says an insurer can only decline 
a claim, due to a breach of a policy condition if its material to the loss. In these 
circumstances Watford would need to show that the lack of an MOT also means the car 
wouldnt have passed an MOT. I dont think its shown that Mr Ts car wouldnt have passed 
an MOT or that its condition was a factor in the accident. So, Im not persuaded that its fair 
for it to rely on this exclusion to reject the claim. 
I can see from its response to our investigators view that Watford says it would usually 
consider whether the lack of an MOT had been a relevant factor in the accident. But in this 
case, it thinks the time the vehicle was without an MOT is of relevance. It says the car 
shouldnt have been on the road other than to travel to an MOT testing station. Watford says 
it shouldnt have to provide cover when a vehicle isnt being driven legally. It says it was the 
policy holders choice to allow his car to be driven despite there being no MOT in place. 
Ive considered these points. But it remains that Watford hasnt shown that the car wouldnt 
have passed an MOT inspection or that this was material to the loss. I can see from the 
contact records Watford supplied that Mr T described his car as roadworthy and in good 
condition, as of the time of the accident.
Having considered all of this, I dont think Watford treated Mr T fairly when declining to 
provide cover for the reasons it gave. He describes the stress this matter has caused him 
and the impact this has had on his mental health. I can understand that it must have been 
very upsetting for Mr T to be pursued for this amount of money, when he felt he wasnt at 
fault. I dont think this was fair and I agree with our investigator that its reasonable for 
Watford to pay £350 compensation for the distress this caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited 
should:
reconsider the claim in line with its remaining policy terms; and pay Mr T £350 for the distress it caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman