DRN-2692908
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car he obtained through a hire agreement with PSA Finance UK 
Limited (PSA) was not of satisfactory quality. He wants PSA to accept his rejection of the 
car.
What happened
Both parties are familiar with what happened, and I summarised the background to this 
complaint in my provisional decision dated 1 February 2021.
In that decision, I explained why I was minded to uphold the complaint. I said:
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The hire agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service 
can consider complaints relating to it. PSA is the supplier of goods under this 
agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that, under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term 
that the quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, 
I would have to be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a 
breach of contract has taken place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are 
its age and mileage when it was supplied, and how long after supply the fault(s) 
materialised.
The car in this case was brand new and I think its reasonable for Mr B to expect it to 
be fault free. On the day he collected the car, he was disappointed that it was not 
clean. The photos hes provided clearly show the extent of dirt and dust on the car. It 
looks like the car has been stored near a construction site. It looks like there has 
been an attempt at cleaning, but there are layers of dirt which have not been 
removed. The dirt and debris are also in the engine and in the brake discs. There are 
also marks inside the car. The photos also show evidence of scratches which have 
probably been caused during attempted cleaning of the car.
I dont think its reasonable for a new car to be supplied in this condition and I find 
this means it wasnt of satisfactory quality.
But it doesnt automatically follow that PSA is obliged to accept Mr Bs rejection of the 
car. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, a consumer has the right to reject goods 
that arent of satisfactory quality within 30 days. Ive seen evidence to show that Mr B 
did reject the car in this period  he signed to say he wanted to cancel the agreement 
and PSA made arrangements to collect the car.
Unfortunately, Mr B had also agreed to take the car back to the supplying garage for 
it to be cleaned. He was worried he would be charged for cleaning if PSA collected it 
in the state it was in. I do think this led to some confusion as to whether Mr B was 
rejecting the car or not. There was further confusion because PSA accepted his 
cancellation and then later said it should never have done that.
Even if Mr B had accepted cleaning as a resolution, it did not rectify the problem. 
I can see from the photos that the cleaning resulted in scratches on the car. Mr B 
didnt immediately notice this which is why he initially sent an email to say he was 
happy with the cars condition.
Mr B had the right to reject the car in the first 30 days. I find he exercised this right. 
So PSA should now accept his rejection of the car.
I am aware Mr B also complained about the car not being fitted with a dual floor boot. 
I dont need to comment on that because Ive already found the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality, so whether the boot was misrepresented or not will not change 
the overall outcome here.
And I set out what I thought PSA ought to do to put things right. I said:
PSA is responsible for putting Mr B back in the position he would have been in if he 
hadnt entered into the hire agreement.
PSA should cancel the agreement with nothing further for Mr B to pay. It should 
collect the car from him, at no cost to Mr B and at a mutually convenient time.
PSA should also record the finance agreement as settled on Mr Bs credit file or 
remove it altogether.
I now need to consider what, if anything, Mr B needs to pay for his use of the car. 
And whether he has incurred any financial losses which PSA should refund, and 
whether PSA needs to compensate him for any trouble and upset caused.
Mr B has been able to use the car, and its fair that he pays for that use. But hes not 
had the expected enjoyment from the car. I think its fair that PSA refund two months 
payments to compensate Mr B.
Mr B also paid an initial rental. PSA should refund on a pro-rata basis the advance 
payment for spread rentals plus 8% simple interest per year on the unused portion 
from the date it was paid to the date of settlement.
Ive not seen evidence to show that Mr B incurred any financial losses  such as 
needing to hire an alternative vehicle or use public transport. If Mr B has evidence of 
such losses, I invite him to submit this by 16 February and I will consider if he should 
reasonably be reimbursed.
This has been upsetting for Mr B  he expected to hire a brand-new car which should 
have been free from any defects. And PSA accepted his cancellation and then 
changed its mind. Mr B has told us about the impact this has had on him. But Im 
mindful that there are other reasons, such as the coronavirus, which have impacted 
on his financial position and his wellbeing. Thinking about the trouble and upset PSA 
caused by supplying him with an unsatisfactory quality car, I think £250 is fair and 
reasonable compensation.My provisional decision dated 2 March 2021
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond and provide further information in response to 
my provisional decision dated 1 February 2021. PSA did not agree to accept Mr Bs rejection 
of the car. Mr B didnt think it was fair for PSA to retain 16 months payments; he also wanted 
additional costs and other issues to be considered. 
I set out in a further provisional decision why I still thought PSA should accept Mr Bs 
rejection of the car. I said:
PSA does not agree that it should accept Mr Bs rejection of the car. It says Mr B 
signed the delivery note to accept that the car was satisfactory. I cant say with any 
certainty why Mr B signed that document. I think its likely he needed to do that to be 
able to drive the car away. But its clear from the photos hes provided  and for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision - that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. So the document he signed does not make a difference to my conclusion.
PSA highlighted some terms in the finance agreement which say that Mr B should 
not have accepted the car if it was unsatisfactory and that he should have 
immediately notified PSA. Im not sure that Mr B felt he had much choice but to drive 
the car away when he turned up to collect it. But this was on the understanding that it 
would be returned to be properly cleaned and valeted. Ive seen evidence that Mr B 
contacted PSA seven days after hed collected the car to tell it the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality. And I think its more likely than not that  despite what he 
signed  hed already told the supplying garage he didnt consider the car to be of 
satisfactory quality on the day he collected the car. So I dont find Mr B was in breach 
of the terms of the agreement as PSA suggests.
PSA said the problems with the car were minor and could have been fixed under the 
manufacturers warranty. Mr B returned the car to the supplying garage on at least 
six occasions for it to resolve the issues and, as I explained in my provisional 
decision, Im not satisfied that the supplying garage rectified the problem. Which is 
why I thought PSA should accept Mr Bs rejection of the car. PSA hasnt provided 
any new evidence which would lead me to depart from that conclusion.
I carefully considered the additional information Mr B had provided and this changed what 
I thought PSA needed to do to put things right. I said:
Mr B should be put back in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out the hire 
agreement. I set out in my provisional decision how I thought this should be done. 
Mr B has provided further evidence and argument and I have considered this very 
carefully.
Credit file
Id concluded that PSA should record the finance agreement as settled or remove it 
altogether. Mr B says he would like it removed. But either option will have the same 
outcome in that, if the finance agreement is shown as settled, this wont have a 
negative impact on Mr Bs credit worthiness.
Monthly payments
I thought Mr B had had use of the car, although hed not had the expected enjoyment 
from it. And that PSA should refund two months payments to compensate Mr B for 
this lost enjoyment.Mr B thinks PSA should refund more than this as hes only driven the car around 
5,200 miles. And hes explained that he had little use of the car in the first month 
because it was returned to the supplying garage six times.
Ive re-considered this carefully. I dont think all the payments should be refunded 
because Mr B has had some use of the car and I think its fair that he pays for that. 
The mileage allowance in the agreement is 8,000 miles a year. I can see that when 
the car had to be recovered following a breakdown in January 2021, the mileage was 
5,192 and Mr B says he hasnt driven the car since. I cant conclude that the poor 
cleanliness of the car meant it wasnt driveable. But Mr B has explained how the 
state of the car spoiled his enjoyment of it and he was reluctant to drive it. It certainly 
seems hes not had the use he anticipated from the car. Taking all this into account, 
I do think he should receive more than two months refund. The mileage hes covered 
equates to around eight months of the agreed allowance. So I think its fair and 
reasonable that PSA retains eight months payments and refunds the rest.
My provisional decision did not take into account that Mr B was also paying a 
monthly service charge of £18.34. I think its fair that PSA also retains eight months 
service charge payments and refunds the rest.
Initial payment
Under the terms of the agreement, Mr B paid an advance hire payment due when 
you sign the agreement of £1,673.14. He paid £200 when the car was ordered (1 
July 2019), and the balance when he collected the car on 15 July 2019. This was not 
a deposit that I think should be refunded in full. Rather it was an initial lump sum 
rental amount which allowed the monthly payments to be lower than they might 
otherwise have been. My conclusion has not changed  I find PSA should provide a 
pro-rata refund from the date of termination to the date the agreement was due to 
end, plus interest at 8%. It should also refund a pro-rata amount for the months that it 
is providing a full refund.
My provisional decision did not take into account that Mr B also paid an advance 
payment for the service charge of £110.04. PSA should refund a pro-rata amount 
from the date of termination to the date the agreement was due to end, plus interest 
at 8%. It should also refund a pro-rata amount for the months that it is providing a full 
refund.
Other payments to be considered
Ive considered each of the payments Mr B says he would like refunded:
Initial deposit of £200.
This was part of the advance hire payment which I have already covered above.
Delivery and number plates - £583.33.
Cost of larger wheels - £375.00
These items are listed on the new vehicle invoice. But Ive not seen evidence that 
Mr B paid these sums. As noted above, when the car was ordered he paid £200 and 
when the car was collected he paid £1,583.18. The finance agreement he signed 
was a hire agreement. PSA owned the car from the outset and will continue to own it 
when the agreement ends. There was never an option for Mr B to own the car. The 
monthly payments were for the cost of hiring the car from PSA. So I dont find he is 
due a repayment of these items, because he didnt pay for them.Invent fee - £15.00
Mr B paid £15 on 31 July for an invent fee. I cant see this formed part of the 
agreement so I think PSA should refund this fee.
Car insurance - £375.20  If Mr B hadnt hired this car, he would have still obtained a 
car from elsewhere so would always have had to pay the expenses that come with 
car ownership, such as car insurance. So I dont find this should be reimbursed. If 
there are any charges for cancelling or amending his existing policy, PSA should 
reimburse these, on receipt of evidence from Mr B.
Out of pocket expenses
In my provisional decision, I invited Mr B to provide receipts for any additional 
expenses hes incurred such as taxis or public transport. Whilst hes told us that he 
had a train journey and taxi ride each time he had to collect the car from the 
supplying garage, hes not provided evidence of this. In the circumstances, I think the 
compensation Im awarding for distress and inconvenience adequately compensates 
him.
Mr B says the car was unreliable as he had to have both rear lights changed. But this 
seems to have been fixed by the supplying garage at no cost to him as hes not 
provided any evidence of costs incurred.
Distress and inconvenience
I dont underestimate the impact this has had on Mr Bs health and well-being. But 
Ive already explained why its difficult for me to conclude that the supply of an 
unsatisfactory car has directly led to all the financial and health difficulties Mr B is 
sadly experiencing. In the circumstances, I consider £250 to be fair and reasonable 
compensation. In arriving at this figure, I had already taken into account the way Mr B 
was treated by the supplying garage.
Mr Bs other complaints
Mr B says he wants me to take into account that in or around January 2021 the car 
developed a steering problem and hes not been able to drive it since. And that his 
monthly payments increased after an agreed payment break.
I now think it is the interests of both parties to resolve this complaint. PSA has not 
been given the opportunity to investigate the new issues Mr B has raised and it 
needs to be given the opportunity to do that before our service is able to investigate. 
Whilst I can understand that these additional issues may well have added to the 
trouble and upset Mr B has been caused, I cannot award additional compensation 
without being able to conclude whether PSA did anything wrong. And I can only do 
that if a full investigation is carried out. Mr B is free to raise these issues with PSA 
and then bring a separate complaint to us if he is unhappy with the outcome. Or he 
may decide that the overall outcome here is enough to compensate him for what he 
thinks has gone wrong.
Responses to my provisional decision dated 2 March 2021
PSA did not respond to my provisional decision.
Mr B replied to say, in summary, that:He queried the number of payments I was saying PSA should be able to retain and how 
much of the initial deposit I was saying PSA should retain.
The £700 delivery charge and £450 charge for the wheels increased the price of the car 
which would have had a bearing on the hire charge.
PSA increased the length of the contract and the amount he had to pay following a 
payment holiday. This isnt what the FCA says should happen and this needs to be taken 
into consideration.
PSA is being allowed to retain too much and his consumer rights to reject the car  
which he did within days of ownership  are being ignored.
He has had use of the car. But if he hadnt used it, it would have deteriorated beyond 
repair.
He is not being put back in the position he would have been in if he hadnt taken out the 
hire agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully thought about what Mr B has said, but this has not changed my earlier 
conclusions. Whilst I appreciate Mr B feels he had no choice but to drive the car, to be fair to 
both parties I have to take into account that he was able to drive the car and did get some 
use out of it. I think its fair that PSA retains eight months payments, to reflect this.
Mr B says he has paid a higher monthly amount since August 2020. I think the refund 
provided by PSA should include the months that hes paid a higher amount  in other words, 
the eight payments PSA retains should be the months Mr B paid the original amount set out 
in the hire agreement.
Mr B has queried how much of initial deposit will be refunded to him  PSA will pro-rata the 
amount Mr B paid over the term of the agreement (36 months) and then refund this amount 
for the period remaining on the agreement, and for the months it is refunding.
Mr B says the delivery charge and the cost of the wheels increased the price of the car, 
which in turn will have increased the amount he was required to pay each month. But the 
value of these costs was a relatively small percentage of the overall cost of the car, so the 
impact on the monthly payments, if any, would have been negligible. I dont find theres any 
action PSA needs to take in respect of these payments.
This has clearly been a stressful episode for Mr B and Im sorry he feels my decision does 
not put him back in the position he would have been in if he hadnt taken out the hire 
agreement. Im satisfied that, overall, the action Im requiring PSA to take fairly and 
reasonably compensates Mr B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, PSA Finance UK 
Limited should:1. Cancel the agreement with nothing further for Mr B to pay. It should collect the car from 
him, at no cost to Mr B and at a mutually convenient time.
2. PSA can retain eight months payments (£2,230.88) and should refund the rest.
3. PSA can retain eight months service charge payments (£146.72) and should refund the 
rest.
4. Provide a pro-rata refund of the initial hire payment from the date of termination to the 
date the agreement was originally due to end, plus interest at 8% *. It should also refund 
a pro-rata amount for the months that it is providing a full refund.
5. Provide a pro-rata refund of the initial service charge from the date of termination to the 
date the agreement was originally due to end, plus interest at 8% *. It should also refund 
a pro-rata amount for the months that it is providing a full refund.
6. Refund the £15 invent fee, plus interest at 8% *.
7. On receipt of evidence from Mr B, reimburse him for any charges incurred in cancelling 
or amending his car insurance policy.
8. Pay Mr B £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
9. PSA should also record the finance agreement as settled on Mr Bs credit file or remove 
it altogether.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires PSA Finance UK Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. PSA Finance UK Limited must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman