DRN-4266171
The complaint
Mr H has complained The Co-Operative Bank plc wont refund money he lost from his 
account after being the victim of an investment scam.
What happened
In 2022 concerned about the rising cost of living, Mr H searched online for investment 
opportunities. He found a website he believed looked slick which claimed it was 
appropriately regulated and supposedly recommended by a personal finance expert. He 
most likely filled in an online form and got a call from someone who recommended how he 
could invest in cryptocurrency. 
Mr H started small in making investments, then made a payment of £12,100 but could see 
how the value of these grew. He was also receiving credits from his supposed investment 
account.
The fraudsters took their time to persuade Mr H they knew what they were doing. So much 
so that Mr H allowed them to download software which gave them control over his accounts. 
They also encouraged him to change the investment strategy and change what he was 
investing in.
This meant Mr H wanted to make a payment of £11,750 to a new payee. This payment was 
sufficiently unusual that Co-Operative blocked the payment and spoke to Mr H. They 
discussed investment scams and encouraged Mr H to carry out further research. Mr H called 
them back two days later to confirm he was happy with what hed found out and felt secure 
in what he was doing.
Over the next month, Mr H made two smaller value payments towards his investment. 
Following this, the scammers took control of Mr Hs computer and made transfers 
themselves into and out of his account. This took the form of payments from Mrs Hs account 
or loans the scammers conned Mr H into believing were necessary to ensure payments 
werent blocked from his account.
Mr H realised in July 2022 when he couldnt access his investment account that hed been 
the victim of a scam. He asked Co-Operative to refund him.
After a detailed investigation, Co-Operative refunded £33,000 to Mr H as they believed they 
should have sent individual text warnings as payments were being made without his 
authority. They wouldnt refund any further amounts.
Mr H brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator felt Co-Operative 
had properly flagged the early payments but not those later on. However after reviewing the 
phone conversations Mr H had had with his bank, she didnt feel that any additional 
intervention by Co-Operative would have made any difference as Mr H was so firmly 
involved in the scam.
Still dissatisfied, Mr H asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint. His representative 
subsequently confirmed that Mrs H had been refunded £56,700 by her own bank so Mr Hs 
own loss now stood at £45,778.98. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
I dont dispute Mr H was scammed and has lost a considerable amount of money from his 
pension and savings. He has my sympathy about what he has gone through.
Theres no dispute that Mr H made and authorised the initial payments. Mr H believed he 
was making financial investments in cryptocurrency. 
Im satisfied those initial transactions were authorised under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs).
Ive also reviewed the following payments that the scammers were able to make because 
Mr H had allowed them to download software onto his computer and access his accounts. 
Co-Operative suggested Mr H had acted with gross negligence. Im wary of this approach as 
gross negligence is a high bar to get over. However as our investigator suggested, Mr H 
provided the scammers with apparent authority to act on his behalf.
The PSRs say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of Mr H can be treated as acting 
with apparent authority when making transactions on their account.
Authority consists of two elements. The transactions must be authenticated, and Mr H needs 
to have consented to the payments being made.
Im satisfied the payments were authenticated from the information provided to us by Co-
Operative. In other words, Mr Hs genuine details logon details were used. Payments were 
also properly authenticated.
Turning to consent, the evidence from Mr H suggests he was aware that the scammers had 
downloaded software onto his computer which gave them access to his accounts. Its clear 
from the evidence Mr H shared with us from conversations with the scammers, that he 
questioned what they were doing. However, at no stage did he stop their activities or report 
them to any authorities. 
I appreciate he was won over by their convincing story, but I do wonder why he didnt think 
that allowing these individuals (whom he didnt know) full access to his finances was 
potentially dangerous.
I would suggest this means Mr H provided apparent authority to the scammers to make the 
transactions. Whilst apparent authority can be withdrawn or annulled by the payment service 
user (Mr H in this context), Ive seen nothing to suggest this was the case here.
Its also accepted that Co-Operative has an obligation to follow Mr Hs instructions. So in the 
first instance Mr H is presumed liable for his loss. But thats not the end of the story.Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Co-Operative 
should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Mr H fell victim to an investment scam. These unfortunately arent particularly unusual and 
are invidious in the way those carrying out the scam inveigle themselves into someones 
trust. 
It is clear from the detailed testimony Ive seen from Mr H that he firmly believed he was 
making genuine investments. But its also clear that he didnt carry out due diligence on 
those who were advising him to spend thousands of pounds. Despite being prompted to 
check out whether the investment company was regulated with the Financial Conduct 
Authority, I dont believe Mr H did so otherwise hed have been aware of regulatory warnings 
about the company he was dealing with.
Ive noted the conversations Mr H had with Co-Operative on 28 and 30 May. He was 
adamant that he was aware of what he was doing, and hed not been duped in any way or 
persuaded to carry out these investments. Apart from refusing to carry out his instructions, 
Im not sure what else Co-Operative could have done.
Ive also considered whether Co-Operative should have taken other steps or made additional 
checks before processing any of the future payments which might have included providing 
warnings to Mr H. 
Co-Operative has confirmed they do have mechanisms in place to check unusual 
transactions. I can see this is the case as they took further action later on to delay Mr Hs 
payments. 
Payments of £18,000, £6,900, £18,000, £10,000 and £15,000 made in June 2022 were 
stopped. Mr H authorised these subsequently by text. I should stress that Co-Operative 
refunded £33,000 to Mr H because they didnt provide single alerts for these five payments 
and felt this could mean that the two later individual payments of the pairs (£18,000 and 
£15,000) werent appropriately authorised.
As stated above, Im satisfied that Mr H provided apparent authority to the investment 
company. This refund forms a substantial part of Mr Hs losses.
I say this because Im not convinced that £56,700 of those losses were, in fact, Mr Hs. 
Payments were transferred from Mrs Hs account to Mr H. I understand from Mr Hs 
representative that Mrs H has subsequently been refunded this amount by her own bank.Mr Hs representative has suggested that more should have been done to demonstrate to 
Mr H that he was the victim of a scam. However Im satisfied with the steps Co-Operative 
took to identify potential risks to Mr H. It is clear from the earlier phone conversations that 
Mr H ignored what he was being told.
This means that whatever further actions Co-Operative may have taken would have meant 
having, what I suspect would have been very similar conversations with Mr H.
As noted above, Mr H knew that the scammers were making payments and transferring 
loans into his account. At this stage, he should have realised what was going on. He didnt 
and Im sure whatever further warnings Co-Operative issued, these would have also been 
disregarded by Mr H.
Overall I think theres enough evidence to suggest Co-Operative took the appropriate steps 
to probe what was going on here. Whilst a bank is always in a better place than an individual 
customer to appreciate the complexity of scams, as stated earlier, it is also accepted a 
banks required to follow its customers instruction. Co-Operative warned Mr H that his 
payment had all the hallmarks of an investment scam. Mr H took no notice of them.
I have considered, in the light of Co-Operatives warning and knowledge, whether they 
should have stopped Mr H from making the payment at all. But I dont believe they acted 
improperly here.
Overall I cant fairly tell Co-Operative to refund Mr Hs money.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Hs complaint against The Co-
Operative Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman