DRN-3809747
The complaint
Ms F, Ms G and Ms S complain Covea Insurance plc has poorly handled a claim theyve 
made following an escape of water and are also unhappy with the £1,000 excess charged.
What happened
Ms G has led the complaint with this Service so Ive largely referred to her throughout. 
References I make to Ms G and Covea include respective agents and representatives 
unless stated otherwise.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and so Ive provided a 
summary here.
Ms F, Ms G and Ms S own the freehold of a house which is divided into three flats. 
They each live in one of the leasehold flats. Ms G occupies the basement flat. The 
house is insured by a buildings insurance policy underwritten by Covea. 
In early Autumn 2021, Ms G noticed the flooring around her toilet was uneven and 
had become spongy so she reported the damage to Covea. It appointed an agent to 
inspect the damage and validate the claim. Following investigations, the subfloor was 
found to be saturated with mould present.
The cause of the damage was uncertain but Coveas agent suspected that water had 
escaped from around the bath and shower seals. The agents were concerned though 
the flat might have been impacted by flood water following a storm in the summer of 
2021.
Ms G was unhappy with Coveas actions and she complained about service, delays 
and the excess she was charged. It said some of the delays experienced during the 
claim were out of its control; it had charged the correct excess and the amount was 
detailed in the policy schedule; and it didnt think its agents had provided poor service 
or that any delays resulted in worse damage and increased costs. Ms G didnt agree 
and raised a complaint with this Service.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint and said Covea should pay £350 for delays 
with the claim and should consider a disturbance allowance for when Ms G wasnt 
able to live in the property. But she didnt think Covea had acted unfairly in charging 
the £1,000 excess. 
Ms G broadly accepted the recommendation but commented further on the number of 
people appointed by Covea who had visited her property together with the associated cost of 
this. Covea disagreed with the findings and so the complaint has been referred to me for an 
Ombudsmans decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Policy excess
Covea initially said the claim would be considered under the Accidental Damage part 
of the policy, for which an excess of £250 was payable. It later said its agent had 
made an error when it said this and the claim would be considered under the Escape 
of Water (EOW) part of the policy for which an excess of £1,000 was payable. 
The excess on a policy is the part of the claim that the consumer has to pay. Its 
agreed in advance and will be detailed within the policy terms. Having considered the 
policy documentation, Im satisfied the EOW excess of £1,000 is clearly detailed in 
the policy schedule.
I know Ms G was unhappy with the higher excess she had to pay. Having considered 
the cause of the leak, it seems reasonable to me the damage was considered under 
the EOW part of the policy with the excess that incurred. 
Overall, Im satisfied Ms G has been charged the correct excess. Ms G says that had 
she been told the correct excess earlier she might have dealt with the claim 
differently. But Ive not seen evidence which persuades me that if the claim had 
proceeded more quickly from the start, the overall cost of the claim would have been 
reduced  taking into account the excess. Coveas expert was of the professional 
opinion the damage was already advanced and the subfloor would have needed to 
be lifted regardless of the area affected.
I wont be asking Covea to take any further action on this aspect of the complaint. But 
I do acknowledge Coveas error in saying the excess would be £250. Ive kept this 
error in mind when considering the impact of Coveas actions on Ms G throughout 
the claim and the consequent award I recommend. 
Claims handling and delays
The claim took longer than Id expect and there have been a number of delays 
throughout. For example, in the early stages of the investigation when there was a 
delay of approximately a month between visits from one of Coveas agents due to the 
high volumes of work they had at the time. And there were delays with another of its 
agents being able to supply quotes for the remedial work, which Covea said was out 
of its control.
Covea is under an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly, and having 
considered all the evidence, I dont think its met this obligation. Ill be keeping this on 
mind when considering the award I recommend.
Alternative Accommodation 
I acknowledge Covea discussed the provision of alternative accommodation with 
Ms G but she declined the offer and chose to stay with a friend instead. In its internal 
communications, I note Covea said it would consider paying a subsistence allowance 
to Ms G while she was out of the property but its not clear to me if this was offered to 
her or not.
Ms G may have incurred additional costs during her time away from the property, 
such as increased travel, for example. In the specific circumstances of this case, I 
think Covea should consider the payment of a disturbance allowance to cover the reasonable additional costs she may have incurred on the provision of appropriate 
supporting evidence and/or receipts. 
Summary
I understand Ms Gs frustration with how the claim has been handled by Covea and I 
think it could have done a much better job than it did. Covea says some of this was 
out of its hands due to supplier issues and delays but as the underwriter of the policy 
its still responsible for the impact this had on Ms G.
Ive thought about this case very carefully, and having done so, Im directing Covea 
to pay Ms G £350 for the distress and inconvenience it caused Ms G through its poor 
complaint handling. Together with consideration of a disturbance allowance Ive 
referred to above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Covea Insurance plc to:
Pay Ms G £350 for the impact of its claims handling and delays.
Consider any reasonable costs Ms G incurred while away from her property on the 
provision of appropriate supporting evidence and/or receipts.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F, Ms G and 
Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman