DRN-2177861
The complaint
Company M is unhappy Squareup Europe Ltd closed their account and withheld the money 
in it for 90 days. 
What happened
Company M took a virtual terminal payment for £4,051.59 on 3 July 2019. The following day 
Squareup contacted Company M. It asked various questions and wanted Company M to 
provide documentation, including bank statements and invoices. Squareup placed the funds 
in the account on hold in the meantime. 
Company M provided information to Squareup straight away but was then asked to provide 
further documentation on 5 July 2019. 
Whilst Squareup was considering this, Company M processed a further payment for £129.99 
on 5 July 2019. But later that day Squareup let Company M know it was deactivating their 
account with immediate effect. It explained that based on the information provided it wasnt 
able to support their business needs. Squareup explained that any funds in the account 
would be held for 90 days but advised that refunds could be processed. 
Company M processed a refund of the £4,051.59 in the evening of 5 July 2019. Theyve 
explained they had to refund their customer and ask them to pay via a different method 
because otherwise they wouldnt have had access to those funds for 90 days. 
Company M complained to Squareup. They were unhappy with being forced to complete a 
long and intrusive information request, in which Squareup requested confidential financial 
information. Then following this, their account was closed, and they were told their funds 
would be held for 90 days. Because of this they were forced to refund their customer and 
request payment in a different way. This caused embarrassment and damage to Company 
Ms relationship with their customer. 
Squareup responded to Company Ms complaint explaining that under the terms of the 
account it could hold funds after deactivation to offset any potential disputes that may occur 
or refunds that may be issued. It said the terms allow it to ask for additional information 
where necessary and also to close the account. It said it wouldnt be able to reverse its 
decision or provide any further details around its decision. 
Company M brought its complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She explained that the terms and conditions of the account allowed Squareup to 
block and review the account and request the information it did. She explained that this is 
necessary sometimes in order for Squareup to meet its legal and regulatory obligations. The 
terms also allowed Squareup to withhold the funds. So, whilst she acknowledged the whole 
process was inconvenient for Company M, she wasnt able to conclude that Squareup had 
made any errors and therefore didnt have to compensate Company M for this. 
Company M remained unhappy. They said that Squareup had no good reason to ask for all 
the information they did and then close the account and block access to the funds  
especially the £129.99 that was unrelated to the £4,051.59 transaction. They pointed out that 
just because their customer paid them a second time, didnt mean the trust hadnt been 
broken. They explained their customer hasnt placed any orders since this happened and 
they were previously one of their best customers. 
As Company M didnt agree with the investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Squareup has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing
account services to its customers. These are ongoing so dont just apply at account opening
stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts and the activity
taking place on them. If Squareup didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction.
With this in mind, Im satisfied Squareup was entitled to ask Company M the questions it did 
and block access to the funds in the meantime. This was in line with the account terms and 
conditions. I understand these questions may have seemed intrusive to Company M, but 
having considered all the information available to me, I can understand why Squareup 
wanted to review the account and ask the questions it did. 
Squareup was also entitled to close Company Ms account and did so in in line with the 
account terms and relevant regulations. Squareup has the discretion to offer accounts to 
who it wishes, just as Company M can choose who to bank with. So, whilst I appreciate this 
caused Company M inconvenience, I cant say Squareup has treated them unfairly here.
 
Holding the funds for 90 days 
Under the terms and conditions of the account, Squareup is entitled to hold the funds in the 
account for 90 days following the account closure. It does this to prevent losses should an 
account holder receive a chargeback or refund request in that time. I understand Company 
M doesnt agree with this, but it is something they agreed to when taking out the account. 
Squareup does allow the option of the payments being refunded back to the cardholders, 
and Im pleased to see it notified Company M of this. 
I understand having to refund the £4,051.59 payment to its customer caused Company M 
embarrassment and Company M wouldnt have had to do that if Squareup hadnt blocked 
access to that money. Im very sorry to hear this has caused issues between Company M 
and its customer. But as Ive explained, Squareup was entitled to hold the money for the 90 
days. 
Company M isnt happy Squareup held onto the £129.99 which wasnt connected to the 
£4,051.59 payment that they were questioned about. The £4,051.59 may have triggered the 
initial review and been the subject of the questions Company M were asked, but as Ive 
explained, the terms allow Squareup to hold the funds in the account for 90 days. So, it was 
entitled to hold this money too. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Company M, but taking all the above into 
account, whilst I appreciate the actions taken by Squareup caused Company M 
inconvenience and potential damage to its reputation, I cant say Squareup made any 
mistakes that mean it should compensate them for this. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Company Ms complaint against Squareup Europe 
Ltd.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Company M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2020. 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman