DRN-4360588
The complaint
Mrs T has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined a claim under her pet 
insurance policy. References to Great Lakes include its agent.
What happened
Mrs T took out a policy with Great Lakes in April 2021 for a pet. On 21 January 2023 she 
added her new dog, whom Ill call L, to the policy. L was also covered by a different policy 
until 22 January 2023.
On 20 January 2023 Mrs T had taken L to the vet and been told that he might have a mild to 
moderate leg deformity. The vet recommended x-rays which were carried out at the end of 
January. It was found that L did have a limb deformity.
Mrs T made a claim for the cost of the investigation. Great Lakes declined the claim. It said 
the policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions. It said a pre-existing condition included 
anything a vet had given advice about in the 24 months before the policy started. 
In March 2023 L had surgery to correct the issue.
Mrs T complained that in the phone call when shed added L to the policy, she hadnt been 
told about the exclusion for pre-existing conditions. She said she would have continued the 
existing policy covering L if shed known about the exclusion.
Great Lakes accepted that its adviser hadnt read out the policy terms and assumptions to 
Mrs T when shed contacted it to add L to the policy and sent her a £20 gift voucher. But it 
said Mrs T had already been given a copy of the policy wording and it had been confirmed to 
her that Ls cover would be on the same terms. It said it also made a copy of the revised 
policy accessible to her online within 24 hours.
Mrs T brought her complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. She didnt think Great Lakes needed to take any further action.
As Mrs T disagreed, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ts policy, like many other pet policies, doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. It defines a 
pre-existing condition as anything your pet has had treatment, medication or advice for in 
the last 24 months. We consider advice to include anything a vet observed and recorded in 
your pets clinical records. 
The vets clinical notes following the examination on 20 January 2023 refer to mild to 
moderate valgus suspected forelimbs. He advised that L should be x-rayed sooner rather 
than later as we have more options the younger they are.
As that was before the policy started, I think it was reasonable for Great Lakes to say Ls 
limb deformity was a pre-existing condition which had been observed and recorded in the 
pets clinical notes.
Ive considered how the information about the exclusion for pre-existing conditions was 
presented to Mrs T. She already had access to the policy and a two-page summary of the 
key information. In the summary document it says:
What is not insured?
We cannot cover pre-existing conditions. That means any condition that has been treated, 
medicated or that you have received advice for in the last 24 months.
I think this and the policy wording were clear. Overall, I think there was sufficient information 
available to Mrs T to have enabled her to make an informed decision about whether the 
policy met her needs at that time. I dont think it was unfair of Great Lakes to assume that 
Mrs T had checked the cover she had already for her other pet and was satisfied that it 
would be suitable for L. I wouldnt expect an insurer to go through exactly the same process 
on adding a pet to an existing policy as it would when the policy was first sold. 
So while it would have been better if Great Lakes adviser had specifically drawn Mrs Ts 
attention to the main terms of the policy in the phone call, on balance I think it did enough to 
ensure she had all the information she needed before adding L to the policy.
Mrs T is also unhappy that it took until June 2023 for Great Lakes took to make a final 
decision on her claim and by that time she had already incurred the further expense of 
surgery on L which she could have delayed for 24 months if shed known the condition would 
be classed as a pre-existing condition. However I can see that the claim was submitted on 8 
February and declined the next day by a phone call, with confirmation following by email on 
10 February. Although Great Lakes agreed to give the claim further consideration, I think it 
was already clear some time before Ls surgery in March that the claim might well be 
declined.
I appreciate that this outcome will be very disappointing for Mrs T but I dont think Great 
Lakes has treated her unfairly.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman