DRN-3963452
The complaint
Mrs T complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc hasnt paid out the proceeds of an 
investment she made in a guaranteed equity bond (GEB) in 1997.
What happened
Mrs T, represented by her daughter, says that in 1997 she invested into a GEB with a 
building society that has since been acquired by Co-op Bank. Mrs T says that when the 
product was launched in 1997 her application form and cheque was handed in at the 
building society head office. Mrs T complained to Co-op Bank that theres no record of the 
GEB investment being paid to her account. Co-op Bank initially said it had no open accounts 
for Mrs T, but later found an account in her name and paid out the balance. Co-op Bank said 
the GEB was sold by the regulated financial advisers of the building society, and these had 
been taken over by another business. Co-op Bank says it asked the other business if it had 
any investment in the name of Mrs T, but the new administrators could find no investment 
records for Mrs T.
Mrs T brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and an Investigator 
looked into things. The Investigator thought there was no evidence that Co-op Bank still held 
funds for Mrs T. As Mrs Ts representative didnt agree with the Investigator, she asked that 
an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is whether Co-Op Bank is still holding on to the funds Mrs T 
invested in 1997. I understand that Mrs T and her representative will be disappointed, but 
Ive decided its more likely than not Co-op Bank doesnt hold any Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) or Personal Equity Plan (PEP) funds for Mrs T, nor any further bank accounts. 
I will now explain why.
Neither Mrs T nor Co-Op Bank has been able to provide any documents showing precisely 
what Mrs T invested into in 1997. However, Mrs Ts representative has been able to provide 
a reasonable description of the investment. Mrs Ts representative says The purpose of that 
product is to keep your capital secure and give an agreed, reduced percentage of capital 
growth i.e., 90% of the FTSE. In the unlikely event that the long-term FTSE value goes 
down, the capital is safe, and for that safety, the investor sacrifices 10% potential growth. 
This sale of this type of policy would have been regulated. So, I think its more likely than not 
the building society only marketed the policy and that it was sold by its regulated financial 
advisers. Typically, these products had a fixed term of between four and six years, but In this 
case, the financial adviser part of the building society was sold to another regulated business 
in late 1999 and has since been sold on again. Co-Op Bank didnt acquire the building 
society until 2009. So, I consider it unlikely Co-Op Bank will have received any details of the 
GEB investment, other than an account number for its records  which it has since provided 
to Mrs Ts representative, and which correlates to an account number for a PEP Mrs T held 
in 2006. 
Mrs Ts representative says she has no evidence of what happened to the investment. 
Whilst there is no evidence of what has happened to the funds, Im satisfied that Co-Op 
Bank has completed a reasonable search of its records and found no further accounts or 
investment accounts for Mrs T. The business that took on responsibility for the regulated 
sales made by the building society financial advisers has also confirmed it holds no 
investments for Mrs T.
Mrs Ts representative says Mrs T received no regular statements for the investment. I 
acknowledge this may have been the case, but because I think the GEB was a regulated 
investment, I wouldnt expect Co-Op Bank or the building society to have provided regular 
statements. Instead, I think it was more likely than not the responsibility of the regulated 
business that more likely than not sold the investment to provide any statements.
Mrs Ts representative highlighted reference to a PEP on a 2007 rewards statement the 
building society provided and feels strongly that Co-op Bank should have records of this 
PEP account. But, as Ive explained earlier, I dont think Co-Op Bank held this investment as 
it was also likely to have been a regulated product. This is supported by the number of points 
rewarded to Mrs T which doubled when she purchased regulated products, such as a PEP. 
The reward statement confirms Mrs T held a PEP in 2006 but it isnt enough for me to 
reasonably conclude this was the investment Mrs T made in 1997. The statement is a 
snapshot of the bonuses Mrs T earned on her accounts and investments held in 2006  it 
doesnt confirm if it was held after 2006 or if it was a re-investment of the proceeds of the 
GEB or a new investment. 
I emphasise with Mrs T and her representative for the frustration this matter has caused 
them at a difficult time. They have strong feelings that something has gone wrong with the 
1997 GEB investment Mrs T made, but, taking into account all of the circumstances of this 
complaint, Im not persuaded Co-op Bank holds the proceeds of the GEB investment or 
indeed any other regulated investments Mrs T may have taken out with the financial advisers 
of the building society. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint against The Co-operative Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman