DRN-1666868
The complaint
Mr S in unhappy with the duplicate income protection cover and premiums applied in error 
by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
What happened
Mr S took out an income protection insurance alongside his mortgage. But a second policy 
was set up in error so Mr S was incorrectly charged two separate premiums each month. 
The duplicate premium charge appeared on Mr Ss monthly statements and he received 
annual renewal notices for both policies. 
14 years passed before Mr S noticed the duplicate charges on his statements. 
Mr S complained to Aviva in June 2019. Aviva apologised for the error and cancelled the 
duplicate policy. It refunded the premiums paid by Mr S and 8% interest. It also offered £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr S made a complaint to our service. He said hed been significantly disadvantaged 
financially by the incorrect charges and it had contributed to his financial difficulties 
throughout the years since. And his decisions to take out credit and finance agreements. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and she thought the business had acted 
fairly in trying to resolve the matter. Mr S remained unhappy so he asked for an ombudsman 
to review his complaint so its been passed to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that the second policy should never have been into place. My role is to 
decide if I think Aviva acted reasonably in resolving the issue as fairly and promptly as 
possible. 
To put Mr S back in the position he wouldve been had the error not occurred, I would expect 
the business to refund the additional premiums paid each month. And add interest at 8% up 
to the date of settlement. 
Mr S paid a total of £6,126.17 in duplicate premiums and the business has refunded this plus 
interest applied at 8% being £487.66. So Im satisfied Aviva has been reasonable. And I note 
Mr Ss acknowledgment that Aviva acted swiftly in refunding his premiums and the 
associated interest. And that he felt at the time the matter had been dealt with very 
professionally and very quickly. 
Aviva also offered Mr S £300.00 as an apology for any inconvenience caused. Mr S has 
taken time to provide detailed testimony about his financial circumstances during the 14 year 
period. I want to assure him Ive given this careful consideration. However, a lot can change 
over such a long period and there are several factors that have contributed to Mr Ss 
financial position throughout the years. So Im unable to hold Aviva accountable for the 
financial circumstances Mr S has described. 
Its clear Mr S is frustrated with the amount of time this error went on for. And whilst I can 
appreciate his position its important to note that its possible Mr S ought to have been aware 
of this problem sooner and complained earlier. 
Although the business is at fault for the error, I also must consider if Mr S couldve minimised 
the impact of what happened. And Mr S does have a role to play for not noticing the 
duplicate charges every month over such a long period. Or the annual renewal notices sent 
twice each year for the exact same type of policy. Mr S has explained he was struggling 
financially during this time which suggests he would have been reviewing his outgoings to 
see if he could make any savings. So its unfortunate this error wasnt picked up at an earlier 
opportunity so the funds were returned sooner. 
Taken all this into account, I think the premium refund and applicable 8% interest plus £300 
compensation is appropriate. And Im satisfied Aviva has acted reasonably in resolving the 
error fairly and promptly.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman