DRN-2299916
The complaint
Mr C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly handled a         
claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2020, Mr C was involved in a road traffic accident while driving his van, which 
consisted of a collision with a third-party driver. He notified RSA as his insurer and provided 
evidence to support his position that the third-party was to blame. This included CCTV 
footage he obtained, which he believes proves he should not be held liable. 
RSA later received a claim against Mr Cs policy from the third-party. RSA accepted and 
settled the claim, based on the evidence available. Mr C was unhappy with this, especially 
as he believes the third-party set up the collision with the intention of claiming for damages 
and/or injury. Therefore, he thought it unfair that the claim be recorded as him being at 
fault.  
RSA maintained that it had reached a fair decision, based on the key evidence and having 
relied on the legal opinion of a solicitor. It explained that the claim had been settled on a 
without prejudice basis  so Mr C could challenge the outcome through legal proceedings, 
at his option. 
Mr C remained unhappy, so he brought the complaint to our service and one of our 
investigators looked into it. In light of the way that RSA handled everything, he was satisfied 
that it hadnt unfairly recorded or settled the claim. 
Mr C disagrees. He submits that RSA has been unreasonable, particularly given his actions 
leading up to the incident which were in keeping with proper conduct while driving.
Because Mr C is not in agreement, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When determining this complaint, my role is to consider whether RSA handled the claim in a 
fair and reasonable manner  it isnt to decide who was at fault for the accident. Im satisfied 
that RSA settled the claim in a way that leaves it open for Mr C to still challenge liability  
often called settling on a without prejudice basis. Consequently, if Mr C wishes to pursue 
such a dispute, he can do so through legal proceedings; and decisions on which party was 
responsible for an accident are generally best dealt with by a court of law in any event.
RSA accepted the claim because the policy provides a benefit which covers Mr C for injury 
or damage he (or any other insured drivers) may cause to third parties or their property. So, 
according to the policy terms, it was obliged to assess whether the claim should be met.  
Ultimately, RSA made a commercial decision to settle rather than dispute, to avoid the time 
and costs legal proceedings would incur. Ordinarily, when an insurer adopts this approach, 
its often on the grounds that an application to the courts would likely prove unsuccessful. 
Here, RSA reached its decision because it believed there were no real prospects of denying 
liability. 
It based this primarily on evidence obtained from Mr C, including his statement about the 
circumstances of the collision and the CCTV footage available. It arranged an investigation 
report into what happened, which was centred around the relevant rules of the highway code 
and was predicated on the sequence of events that Mr C described, together with a review 
of the footage. With this in mind, Im not persuaded that RSA overlooked key information. 
Rather, its my judgment that RSA took account of the meaningful evidence when 
considering this claim. 
The investigation report determined it was probable that Mr C would be found to hold the 
majority of liability for the accident  and RSA is entitled to rely on such findings from an 
industry expert. That said, the report was somewhat inconclusive; in the sense that a further 
review of evidence was also suggested. And of course, we know that Mr C strongly contests 
that he should bear no responsibility for the collision  so liability was not necessarily clear. 
A fault claim may impact a consumers future premiums and no claims discount  so it can 
be of great consequence if insurers act unreasonably when determining liability. Accordingly, 
its important to ensure that further opinions are captured where necessary. 
In keeping with this, RSA depended on a legal opinion when making its decision, having 
referred to a solicitor for counsel on how the claim should be settled. Theres no compelling 
reason for me to doubt the credibility of this advice, not least because RSA afforded key 
evidence and the circumstances of the claim for review. Therefore, Im satisfied that it relied 
on a recommendation from a suitably qualified legal professional, having duly sought clarity 
on the liability of the claim.   
To conclude, the policy terms permit RSA to both settle or defend a claim, depending on the 
terms it finds most appropriate  and on this occasion it was determined that settling was the 
best course of action. Overall, I find that RSA handled the claim fairly and it follows that I do 
not require it to do anything differently for this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman