DRN-2151324
The complaint
Miss P complains that she was given the wrong settlement figure when seeking to voluntarily 
terminate her finance agreement with FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance. 
She wants compensation.
What happened
Miss P tells us that she phoned MotoNovo to get a settlement figure for her hire purchase 
agreement. She says the estimate she was given was inaccurate and was substantially 
below the final settlement figure. As a result, she says she thought she had more money to 
spare than actually proved to be the case. And subsequently she spent this on a holiday. 
Miss P says she then had to borrow money to pay off the loan when she was advised the 
final settlement figure was several hundred pounds more than the estimate.
MotoNovo told us that its call handler shouldnt have given Miss P an estimated figure. It 
said it had paid her £30 in recognition of the error.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said Miss P had 
understood the figure she was given was only an estimate. He didnt think MotoNovo should 
be held responsible for any decision which Miss P had made which disregarded the fact that 
shed only been provided with an estimate.
Miss P didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Miss P would be disappointed when the final settlement figure proved to be 
greater than the estimated figure shed been given. And I also accept that in the 
circumstances it mightve be tempting to spend any spare money in anticipation.
Theres no dispute about the basic facts surrounding this complaint. Miss P phoned 
MotoNovo to obtain a settlement figure. She was given what all concerned knew to be an 
estimated figure. This proved to be several hundred pounds less than the correct settlement 
figure.
Businesses are required to make such settlements in accordance with the Consumer Credit
(Early Settlement) Regulations 2004. This involves a highly complex calculation and in 
practice the final figure is invariably the result of a computer calculation. 
Ive listened to a recording of the relevant phone call. It seems to me the call handler was 
merely trying to be helpful and couldnt reasonably have anticipated that Miss P would make 
significant spending decisions based on what all parties knew was imprecise information.
Miss P has explained that she had spent money on the basis of the estimate. Whilst I dont 
doubt what she says Ive not been given anything to show the extent of any such 
expenditure. So its impossible to say how much, if any, of this might be additional to her 
normal outgoings.
But even if this information was available it wouldnt affect my final decision. By its very 
nature an estimate is unlikely to exactly match the eventual calculation. It wouldnt be fair 
and reasonable to hold MotoNovo liable for any under-estimate. Any more than it would be 
fair to expect Miss P to pay the estimated figure if the actual settlement had proved to be 
less.
In summary, MotoNovo has acknowledged that its call handler didnt follow the correct 
procedure. For myself, I find it difficult to criticise the call handler for trying to help a 
consumer. But the circumstances of this complaint illustrate the risks that can arise if 
procedure isnt followed. MotoNovo paid Miss P £30 by way of an acknowledgement of the 
error. Had it not already paid this money I should not have asked it to make any offer.
I find MotoNovo has dealt with this complaint fairly and I shant be asking it to do anything 
else. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman