DRN-3518037
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds decision to stop 
paying her claim. 
What happened
Mrs M has income protection insurance through her employer. She suffers symptoms of 
fibromyalgia including, low mood, lower back pain, irritable bowel, chronic fatigue and other 
cognitive issues related to verbal comprehension. She became too unwell to work in 
September 2012 and her claim was accepted by L&G in June 2013. Shes received regular 
benefit since then until November 2021, when L&G decided to stop paying her claim. Mrs M 
said her health hasnt improved and that shed like L&G to reinstate her claim because she 
remains too unwell to work. 
L&G said it stopped paying Mrs Ms claim because it found that, following a desktop 
assessment, she was no longer incapacitated to such a degree that she continued to meet 
the policy terms. L&G said that Mrs M had over-exaggerated her symptoms and that it was 
clear, after seeing her social media footprint, that she was well enough to return to work. It 
stopped paying her benefit with one months notice. 
Our investigator thought that L&G had unfairly stopped paying Mrs Ms claim. She explained 
that whilst L&G may have had its concerns following its review, there wasnt enough medical 
evidence to show that L&G had fairly interpreted the evidence collected, especially around 
Mrs Ms functional capacity. She said L&G should therefore reinstate the claim from 
November 2021 and pay 8% simple interest on that amount until the date of settlement. 
L&G disagreed. It said the evidence clearly shows that Mrs M has a greater level of 
functionality than shed previously reported in her May 2021 continuation form and that it 
stands by its decision to cease benefit. And so, its now for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator. I think L&G has 
stopped Mrs Ms claim unfairly and should therefore reinstate it from November 2021. Ill 
explain why. 
Theres a wealth of arguments and evidence thats been submitted in this case, but not all of 
it will feature in my final decision because I think its best to keep things as simple as 
possible here. I wanted to acknowledge this has been a difficult time for Mrs M and that her 
mental health has sadly deteriorated since her claim was stopped. Its understandable that 
L&Gs decision has had a significant impact on Mrs M and shes described feeling over 
cautious, suicidal, anxious, depressed and as though her privacy has been unfairly invaded. 
Mrs M explained this was brought on by L&Gs desktop assessment where it began 
reviewing her claim. This involved considering evidence gathered online to ensure Mrs M 
continued to meet the policy terms. Ive seen much of the evidence collected by L&G 
through Mrs Ms social media accounts and so I have a good understanding of why she feels 
this way. But I should say that insurers, like L&G, are entitled to periodically check this 
information in order to validate claims. Its a tool thats used by many insurers and given the 
length of time Mrs Ms claim had been running, Im not surprised by L&Gs decision to use it. 
That said, I think L&G should have remembered that Mrs M suffers with fibromyalgia and 
chronic pain. Also, the emphasis is on L&G to persuasively demonstrate that Mrs M no 
longer meets the policy terms given itd previously accepted that she was too incapacitated 
to work.  
This is important because Im not persuaded that the evidence gathered by L&G 
successfully, or persuasively demonstrated that Mrs M was well enough to return to work. 
The evidence Ive seen is also incomplete. L&G provided links to videos which dont work 
and so Im unable to see what evidence it relied on to make the decision to stop paying her 
claim. Further, theres no specific commentary, by a suitably qualified medical professional, 
which gives any indication on Mrs Ms ability to return to work. Id have expected to see 
some evidence of a medical opinion, specifically commenting on the videos, and other 
evidence gathered, that discusses Mrs Ms illnesses and her reported symptoms that 
preclude her from work and why thats no longer the case in L&Gs opinion.
Ive reviewed the notes from the multidisciplinary team that discussed Mrs Ms claim, but 
theres nothing specific mentioned there either, other than they agree the claim should be 
stopped. I think, given the complexities of Mrs Ms illnesses and the length of time her claim 
has been ongoing, it would have been fair for L&G to refer her to an independent medical 
examination with the view to better understanding her functional capacity. That way it would 
have been able to point to some meaningful and persuasive evidence to show that itd fairly 
considered stopping her claim. But because this didnt happen, I agree with our 
investigators view that L&G treated Mrs M unfairly by stopping her claim the way it did. 
L&G highlighted Mrs Ms medical records show that shed rarely visited the GP during the 
time it was reconsidering her claim. But I dont think thats unusual given the wider 
circumstances with COVID-19. I say that because thats the narrative for many people as 
advice was not to visit the doctor unnecessarily from March 2020. There were also national 
lockdowns during that time. Mrs Ms medical records continued to show that she regularly 
took her medication to help ease some of her symptoms, which I think satisfactorily shows 
she was still suffering her illnesses. Further, Mrs Ms illnesses are chronic and shes been 
coping with them for some time, and so, I dont think its unusual that theres perhaps less 
interaction between her and the GP than what there was when this first began, other than to 
collect her medication.  
I note that in Mrs Ms claim continuation form completed in May 2021, she explained that she 
suffered with chronic pain in her hands and wrists. She also explained that she never has 
good days, only bad. And so, I can see why L&G questioned this when it discovered her 
social media pages where she was holding books and showing her completed artwork. But 
this ought to have been discussed in the context of a functional capacity examination to 
better understand her abilities, rather than the basis to stop the ongoing claim altogether.   
My final decision
Its for these reasons Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited should now reinstate Mrs Ms claim and pay her 8% simple interest of that 
amount until the date the settlement is paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman