DRN-2439263
The complaint
Mr L complains that Swinton Group Ltd treated him unfairly when he renewed his home 
insurance.
What happened
Mr L had a home contents insurance policy, arranged through Swinton. In February 2020, 
Swinton wrote to Mr L to say that his policy was due for renewal the following month. It also 
said, among other things, that if he renewed his policy and continued to pay his premium by 
direct debit, his payments would be managed by a third party company (which Ill refer to in 
this decision as B).
Mr L was concerned by this new arrangement and the short time between the letter and the 
renewal date. He was further concerned when he received his credit agreement from B, 
which he found extremely difficult to read, and when B was able to take the first payment 
from his account before he received a large print copy of the agreement. He didnt think 
Swintons actions were in his best interests, and he complained about this.
Swinton didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It said its February 2020 letter explained the renewal 
process, including the involvement of B. It said it would forward his complaint about the 
credit agreement to B.
Mr L was unhappy with this response, so he complained to this service. In summary:
He felt he was forced into a credit agreement with B without his consent.
He believed Swinton was hiding the true nature of its relationship with B.
He wasnt given reasonable notice of this new arrangement.
The credit agreement he received from B was in extremely small print and virtually 
unreadable.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. Mr L disagreed 
with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, its worth emphasising that this service isnt a regulator and doesnt monitor firms 
compliance with Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules. Thats a matter for the FCA itself. 
So some of the issues raised by Mr L  for example, his belief that Swinton didnt meet the 
FCAs CONC rules  arent ones I can consider.
This was a renewal of Mr Ls existing home insurance policy. Like many insurance policies, 
Mr Ls policy allowed Swinton to automatically renew it unless Mr L cancelled. And like many 
insurance brokers, Swinton had an arrangement with a third party credit provider for 
customers who paid their premium monthly by direct debit. Swinton set out both these points 
in its 20 February 2020 letter:
If your policy renews your Direct Debit payments will be managed by our finance 
partner [B] 
Well automatically renew your policy for you 
If youre happy with your quote and providing there is a live Direct Debit instruction in 
place, well take care of everything for you and well renew your policy automatically 
so youll remain covered.
When Mr L didnt cancel, Swinton sent him a new welcome pack on 15 March 2020. This 
included his policy documents. The cover letter restated the role of B  Now your policy has 
renewed your Direct Debit payments will be managed by [B]  and the breakdown of Mr Ls 
premium, including the interest for paying by direct debit. It also explained that Mr L could 
cancel his policy within 14 days, starting from the date you receive this letter.
Given the above, Im satisfied that if Mr L was unhappy with either his policy or Swintons 
arrangement with B, he was able to cancel the policy.
Im also satisfied that Swinton gave Mr L roughly six weeks from 20 February 2020 to decide 
whether he wanted to cancel his policy. I think this is reasonable.
So I dont agree that Mr L was being forced into a credit agreement with B, that Swinton hid 
its relationship with B, or that the notice Swinton gave him about the new arrangement with 
B was unreasonable. It follows that I dont think Swinton did anything wrong or acted unfairly.
Finally, if Mr L wants to complain about the delay getting the credit agreement from B, he 
must first address this complaint to B. If hes dissatisfied with Bs response, he can refer his 
complaint to this service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 February 2021. 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman