DRN-1474275
 
The complaint
Miss T complains about what happened when Barclays Bank UK PLC decided to make a 
refund to her. She said the money was used to pay off her existing debt without asking her.
What happened
Barclays wrote to Miss T in July 2019, saying it had refunded £248 onto her account, 
because it might not have offered her appropriate support when she went over her overdraft. 
It paid back the interest, fees and charges that she paid during this time, to make up for that.
Miss T said shed previously set up a payment plan on this account. Shed then been 
advised by Barclays to talk to a debt management charity, and she had done. The charity 
said she could manage her monthly payments. But she then got into difficulties again. She 
said Barclays helped for a while, but then stopped, and she had to close the account. 
Miss T said she didnt get the letter from Barclays until the end of July, after the refund was 
already made. If Barclays had told her earlier that it was making this refund, she wouldve 
made different financial decisions in the meantime. 
Barclays said Miss T previously had an agreed overdraft of £1,500 on her account. All 
changes on her account in the last six years were in line with the terms of the account. It 
said it had written to her in August 2017 to say she needed to get in touch urgently about her 
debt or it might have to close her account. Miss T did then get in touch. Barclays set up a 
payment plan for her, but the plan failed, and the account ultimately closed. 
In 2019 Barclays had reviewed its procedures for dealing with customers who were over 
their account limits. It had refunded £248 to Miss T as part of that process, and had paid 
£100 in compensation when she then complained. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She noted that Barclays had 
initially set up a payment plan on Miss Ts account. Then, when the plain failed, it had placed 
her account on hold while she spoke to a debt management charity. These were the actions 
that our investigator said she would expect a bank to take. 
Our investigator said shed checked Miss Ts monthly statements and she didnt think the 
fees that were there had been applied incorrectly. She said what Barclays had done in 
paying Miss T a refund wasnt an admission that it had made a mistake. 
Miss T replied. She didnt think Barclays shouldve just used the refund to reduce her debt. 
She thought she shouldve been given the choice of where this money was paid. Our 
investigator said what Barclays had done wasnt unusual. But Miss T wanted this point to be 
considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Barclays made a refund of interest and charges to Miss T. I understand it did that because it 
cant be sure that it was appropriate to add both interest and charges onto Miss Ts account 
at the time. Its paid her this money back, in case it wasnt. 
But, as our investigator said, that doesnt mean that Barclays had actually made a mistake. 
She didnt think it had. Ive considered the evidence we have of what happened to Miss Ts 
account too, and I havent been able to identify any clear error by Barclays. 
But Miss T said that wasnt what she had complained about. The problem was Barclays had 
just used this money to reduce her debt. It hadnt asked her what she wanted to do with it. 
I understand that Miss T is disappointed not to be given the choice of how to allocate a 
refund of £248. But she does still owe Barclays money. Some of that money may be owed 
because of the charges or interest that Barclays is refunding now. So I dont think its unfair 
or unreasonable for Barclays to choose to use that refund to reduce Miss Ts debt to it. I 
dont think it had to ask Miss T where she wanted this money to be paid. 
I note that when Miss T complained about this, Barclays awarded her £100 in compensation, 
which it has paid into her savings account. So I expect that Miss T will have a choice over 
how she allocates that compensation. 
I know Miss T will be disappointed but I dont think Barclays has to do any more. And for that 
reason, I dont think her complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman