DRN-3408930
The complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC gave him poor customer service when he contacted
them to process a transaction.
What happened
Mr K attempted to make a payment to a third party company, but he said he didnt receive a
one time passcode, so he contacted Lloyds to make the payment. Mr K says he was in a
hurry at the time and he needed to return to work. He said the call handler he spoke to
asked him irrelevant questions when he thought he had already passed Lloyds security
procedures.
Mr K asked to speak to a supervisor, but the call handler explained she wasnt able to
transfer him and Mr K would either need to answer the questions or go into a branch, but Mr
K did not want to go into a branch due to the pandemic. He asked again to be put through to
a supervisor and he told the call handler he wanted to make a formal complaint with her.
The call handler asked Mr K further security questions and then the block was removed. He
told the call handler he would make the payment later and asked to speak to a supervisor. 
The call handler told Mr K she was raising a complaint and asked Mr K to hold while she
communicated with a supervisor. The call handler told Mr K that her manager would listen to
the call and the complaint was raised. Mr K told the fraud handler that he wanted £50
compensation as a result of his complaint.
Mr K received a call back from a complaints handler two days later. The complaints handler
confirmed that he should have been passed to a supervisor when he asked to be, but she
said the security questions which the original call handler had asked him were relevant. Mr K
told the complaint handler that on his last message he sent to them he wanted £150, but the
complaint handler offered him £20 compensation.
The complaints handler explained to Mr K that she would be unable to explain the reason
why his card had been blocked due to their procedures. The complaint handler also
confirmed that Lloyds had sent Mr K the one time passcode on 09:04 on 2 June 2021,
whereas he called them at 09:14 on 2 June 2021. Mr K had said there may have been an
overlap as he wasnt looking at his phone when he called Lloyds. Mr K rejected the £20 offer
of compensation and he told the call handler he had added more information to his complaint
online.
Mr K brought his complaint to our service. Mr K received a call from another complaint
handler from Lloyds on 15 June 2021. The complaint handler again reiterated that they
couldnt agree the security questions were inappropriate. She agreed that the original call
handler had set an expectation that he would get to speak to a supervisor. The complaint
handler said that she would be able to agree to the compensation Mr K asked for on his
original call  of £50, however, Mr K said that as he needed to escalate the complaint, he
wanted £100. The complaint handler told Mr K that she would pay the £50 compensation
into his account, despite Mr K initially refusing to accept the money into his account.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said that he was satisfied that the fraud
agent asked Mr K appropriate questions in order to verify his identity and explained that
Lloyds have a process which may mean placing restrictions on their customers accounts
until theyre able to speak to the right person and confirm that transactions are genuine. Our
investigator added that although the agent remained polite throughout the phone call, there
were moments of unprofessionalism. He said Mr K had wanted £150 compensation (and
later £100) after initially stating on the first call he wanted £50 compensation. But our
investigator could not agree to the £100 compensation that Mr K wanted as he thought the
£50 reflected the inconvenience that Mr K suffered.
Mr K wanted an Ombudsman to review the complaint. He said he didnt feel the
compensation which was offered was in line with being embarrassed by the original call
handler, also the way the complaint was handled by Lloyds. He said the £50 was forced into
his account in a bullying manner and he said that he didnt say that he wanted £150
compensation.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive thought about what Mr K has said about how Lloyds have handled his complaint.
But our service can only look at complaints about regulated financial activities and complaint
handling isnt one of the regulated activities, so Im unable to address Mr Ks concerns
relating to this here.
Ive listened in full to the three phone calls that Mr K has had with Lloyds (one with a fraud
call handler and another two with different complaint handlers). The first call was made by
Mr K due to him not receiving the one time passcode and while Lloyds have said this was
sent shortly prior to Mr K making a phone call to them, the crux of Mr Ks complaint here is
how this telephone call went.
I agree that the call could have been handled better by the fraud handler. While its not within
the remit of this service how to tell a business on how to handle their policies and
procedures, Im persuaded that the call handler replying to Mr K that she can ask as many
questions as she wanted to, couldve been phrased better to explain why she needed to ask
certain questions which Mr K thought were irrelevant, even though they were actually
relevant. Although I have noted that this was said in response to Mr K swearing at her and
asking how many questions she was going to ask, I still think the response could have been
better explained.
I also agree that an expectation was set by the initial call handler that Mr K was going to
speak to a supervisor after he had asked three times to do so. Im not persuaded that this
would have made a difference to the block on his card being removed any quicker as Mr K
needed to answer the additional security questions, but it would have been frustrating for
him to ask to speak to a supervisor and not to be transferred to one.
On the second call I listened to, this time with the complaints handler, Mr K does inform the
complaint handler that he has added further information to his complaint. Which she says
she would take a look at. He also says my last message to you was (£)150 because I thinkthats fair enough. So although Mr K says he never asked Lloyds for £150 compensation, he
did ask for £150 on this call. The conversation here was cordial and Im not persuaded the
call was rushed as it lasted over 11 minutes. They agreed if there were any points in Mr Ks
message that they hadnt touched upon then she would contact him about them.
The third call he has with Lloyds, he does mention £100 compensation. Ive considered what
Mr K has said regarding the £50 being forced into his account in a bullying manner, but I
cant agree with this. The conversation was very cordial and its clear from listening to the
call that Mr K initially didnt want to accept the compensation as he thought it may look like
hes accepting Lloyds resolving the complaint.
Ive noted Mr Ks strength of feeling on this matter, so Im satisfied this wasnt him accepting
the outcome of Lloyds complaint. Mr K told the complaint handler you can pay it if you want
to and he rightfully said that if our service agrees to the higher compensation then Lloyds
could top up the amount of compensation. Whether the compensation was paid or not, it
would make no difference to how our service would assess Mr Ks complaint.
So Ive considered what would be a fair amount of compensation for Mr K here for Lloyds
providing him with poor customer service. As Ive mentioned previously, Im unable to
consider how Lloyds have handled his complaint, so I cant factor that into any
compensation, but I can look at the other events here.
Compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business
has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer
over and above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend
compensation, it is often modest and within our established guidelines.
There would always be an element of inconvenience in ringing the bank to process a
transaction. But Lloyds were entitled to ask the additional security questions which they did.
And when Mr K refused to answer some of the questions the call handler asked, he was
asked different security questions and he was informed the block on the card was removed.
The block was removed within 14 minutes of him speaking to the call handler.
While Mr K may have wanted to know the exact reason for his card being blocked, Lloyds
are not required to divulge their security procedures to him, so I cant say they did anything
wrong here, by not telling him the exact reason why the card was blocked and also the fraud
handler herself may have not been privy to that information. But I can see why Mr K may be
embarrassed with raising a complaint with the call handler hes complaining against. As Ive
mentioned earlier, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so this is not something I can
address Mr K concerns about here, but I can look into the poor customer service which he
had on the call.
I know Mr K will strongly disagree with me, but Im satisfied that £50 compensation does
reflect the inconvenience he had, with him not being able to speak to a supervisor when he
asked to speak to one on three occasions. I can understand his frustration at being told by
the call handler that she can ask as many questions as she liked, especially when it was
clear that Mr K was upset by this point. So if Lloyds had not upheld Mr Ks complaint, then
considering all of the circumstances of the complaint that Im able to, £50 is the amount I
would have awarded him. As Im satisfied this reflects the inconvenience of the poor
customer service on the call would have had on him. So it follows I do not intend to ask
Lloyds to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Lloyds did not respond to my provisional decision. Mr K responded to the provisional decision, but he did not give me any further information about the merits of his 
complaint for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman