DRN-3958907
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined his application to switch his account from 
another bank. 
What happened
Mr L applied to take advantage of an HSBC current account switching offer, in which he 
would be paid £200 if the switch took place. 
When he applied, HSBC said his application was unsuccessful, and offered links to more 
information about credit scoring. It said Mr L could provide more information if he wanted it to 
reconsider his application. 
Mr L sent HSBC information from a credit reference agency showing he had a good credit 
record. HSBC still declined his application. 
One of our investigators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. Mr L didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
As a business, HSBC is entitled to decide who it offers accounts and services to. What 
wed expect is that, if someone applies for an account like Mr L did here, then HSBC 
considers their application fairly, as it would any other customer.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that HSBC guaranteed Mr L that his application would be 
successful if he met certain minimum requirements  instead, as would be normal, it 
assessed each application. 
HSBC has sent us information to show that it fully considered Mr Ls application. Its 
shown that it didnt just rely on credit reference information in making this decision. We 
cant share all of this information with Mr L, as its commercially sensitive to HSBC. But 
Im satisfied, as an impartial observer in this dispute, that it was entitled to make this 
decision and that it treated Mr Ls application fairly.
I can understand why Mr L is disappointed with HSBCs decision, but there is no evidence 
that HSBC acted unreasonably or unfairly in the way it assessed his application. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman