DRN-3356373
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) migrated his account from a 
fee-paying Graduate Additions account to a fee-free account with a Tech Pack added, 
without his consent.
 
Mr A would like a refund of the Tech Pack fees.
What happened
Barclays didnt think that it had done anything wrong, although it did agree, as a gesture of 
goodwill, to refund the Tech Pack fees incurred between January and May 2021. One of our 
adjudicators assessed the complaint, and they also thought that Barclays had not acted 
unfairly or unreasonably, and so didnt think that Barclays needed to do anything more than 
what it had offered to do. As Mr A disagreed, the matter was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 June 2022 and explained why I was inclined to uphold 
the complaint. I have included an extract of my provisional decision below and it forms part 
of this decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about packaged accounts, and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. 
And having considered everything, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Sale of Graduate Additions account
Firstly, I can see that the adjudicator assessed whether the Graduate Additions account had 
been mis-sold. But Mr A originally only complained to Barclays about being unaware of the 
migration of his account from the Graduate Additions account to a fee-free account with the 
fee-paying Tech Pack added.
So I dont think it would be appropriate for me to address the sale of the Graduate Additions 
sale before Barclays has an opportunity to investigate this and issue a final response letter. 
Therefore, if Mr A is still unhappy about this, he should raise his concerns under a separate 
complaint.
Migration from Graduate Additions to fee-free account with Tech Pack added
Barclays withdrew the fee-paying Graduate Additions in January 2017, and migrated all 
Graduate Additions accounts to a fee-free account, but included a fee-paying Tech Pack, 
that account holders could opt out of, if they didnt want the Tech Pack added to their 
account.
In this case, Barclays says that it never posted the migration letters to Mr A as it didnt have 
the correct address for him. But despite this, it allowed the inclusion of the Tech Pack to take 
place on Mr As account anyway. And Mr A says that he was initially unaware of the changes 
that had taken place on the account.
Barclays says that it doesnt think its done anything wrong and essentially places the 
responsibility on Mr A for not updating his address and says that the documents wouldve 
been available to Mr A through online banking.
Having considered what Barclays has said, I dont think its reasonable to place the 
responsibility on Mr A for being unaware that his account had been migrated to a fee-free 
account that also included a fee-paying Tech Pack.
In this case, Barclays was aware that the notification letters were not sent to Mr A. And in the 
circumstances, I think Barclays shouldve done more to make Mr A aware of the migration 
that was due to take place on his account, rather than just allow it to happen without his 
knowledge. I say this especially as the change required him to opt out - rather than opt in  
of the Tech Pack being added to his account.
I also think that Barclays shouldve done more to make Mr A aware of the migration, 
because I can see that an outbound call note was added to Barclays customer notepad in 
September 2016, shortly before the migration was due to take place. That note said next 
time the consumer calls in, the member of staff should discuss with Mr A whether he should 
downgrade from the Graduate Additions account, due to him living abroad and therefore not 
being eligible for the account. I can see that Barclays did register an inbound call from Mr A 
in May 2020 and the fact his Graduate Additions account had been migrated to a fee-paying 
Tech Pack was still not discussed then.
Mr A says that he did contact Barclays before about removing the Tech Pack, but Barclays 
says it has no evidence that he did get in contact to remove the Pack from his account. But 
Barclays says that Mr A updated his address (to an overseas address) on 10 October 2018 
and then again to a UK address in 31 July 2020. So I think its likely that Mr A did contact 
Barclays on these occasions, even if not every occasion was recorded on the customer 
notepad. I also note that the notepad entry in 2016 was an outbound call  which suggests 
that Barclays did have Mr As telephone number, so I think Barclays couldve called Mr A to 
inform him of the contents of the migration letters. Again I cant see anything to suggest that 
Barclays tried to do this.
As such, based on what Ive seen so far, I think Barclays shouldve (and couldve) taken 
further steps to reach out to Mr A so that it could discuss the migration on his account. And 
had Barclays done this, I think its likely that Mr A wouldve opted out of the Tech Pack from 
being added to his account, had he known what his options were.
Putting matters right
So based on the above, I currently think that Barclays should refund the Tech Pack fees 
(that have not already been refunded) that were applied to Mr As account since it was 
migrated in January 2017.
I also currently think that Barclays should pay 8% simple interest, less tax, on those fees to 
compensate Mr A for not having had the benefit of that money in that time.
After issuing my provisional decision, both Barclays and Mr A responded.
In summary, Barclays said that it was willing to accept the findings in my provisional 
decision.Mr A wanted to add that hed moved abroad much earlier than 2018. He says that hed 
actually moved abroad in 2013 and that hed notified Barclays of a change to his overseas 
address in 2015. Mr A said he was grateful for the provisional decision finding in his favour 
but did question whether only refunding the fees he was charged is reasonable. Mr A said he 
equates this to letting a thief go by only returning the stolen goods. He also added that the 
hours spent pursuing the matter and the feeling of helplessness should also be 
compensated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered everything, including what Mr A and Barclays have said in their responses 
to my provisional decision. And I still think that what I proposed in my provisional decision to 
put matters right is reasonable.
Firstly, I note that Mr A says that he had moved abroad much earlier than 2018. However, as 
I explained in my provisional decision, Mr A had only complained to Barclays about the 
Packs that were added to his account, as he says without his consent, in 2017. So anything 
that mayve happened before then is essentially not part of this complaint. Therefore, I dont 
think it is appropriate for me to comment on whether Barclays shouldve done anything 
differently regarding the Graduate Additions account fees that Mr A was charged before his 
account was migrated in 2017.  
Mr A has also questioned whether refunding just the account fees is reasonable. However, I 
should point out that it is beyond the remit of our service to fine or punish businesses if they 
get things wrong. Our job, where we think a business has been unfair or unreasonable, is to 
put the consumer back into the position they wouldve been in, had the wrongdoing not taken 
place. It is for this reason that I think that refunding the Pack fees since Mr As account was 
migrated is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And that is because had Barclays 
taken further steps to try and inform Mr A about the migration, I think its likely that Mr A 
wouldve opted out of having the Tech Pack added to his account and instead only had a 
standard fee-free current account.
Finally, Mr A has said that he believes he should be further compensated. Id like to assure 
Mr A that I did consider this before I issued my provisional decision. However, whilst I 
appreciate that Mr A mayve been frustrated having to go through the complaints process, 
our service does not routinely award compensation solely because a consumer has had to 
go through the complaints process. 
That said, I should point out that the redress I set out in my provisional decision did already 
include some compensation, which was in the form of compensatory interest. I thought it 
reasonable to also award this to reflect the fact that Mr A has not had the benefit of the 
money, each time the fee for the Pack was deducted from his account. And, having weighed 
everything up, I think this is reasonable redress in the circumstances, and I dont think that 
further compensation, in addition to this amount, is warranted in this case. Although I 
appreciate that Mr A may think otherwise.
Putting things right
Because of the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I require Barclays to do 
the following, in full and final settlement of this complaint.
refund the Tech Pack fees (that have not already been refunded) that were applied to Mr As account since it was migrated in January 2017; and
pay Mr A 8% simple interest, less tax, on those fees.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
I therefore require Barclays Bank Plc to do what I have set out above, to put matters right, in 
relation to the migration of Mr As account to a fee-free account that included a fee-paying 
Tech Pack.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman