DRN-2918763
Mrs M says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her 4 payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policies with 4 loans. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs M bought the policies in December 1998, November 1999, May 2002 and October 2002. 
All were taken out around the same time as taking out loans. 
Its not entirely clear by what process the first loan and PPI was sold, but loan number 2 was 
via a postal application, and loan numbers 3 and 4 were sold over the telephone. 
These types of PPI single premium policies were all paid for up front and so the borrower 
was lent money in addition to their loan to pay for the PPI cover. Both the loan and the PPI 
part of the loan attracted interest. 
Ive set out a summary of the lending below to make things easier:
Loan Amount Date Taken 
OutTerm of loan 
in YearsPPI Cost PPI Interest Total PPI 
CostSale Type
£2,000 07/01/99 2 £181.33 £31.07 £212.40 Not known
£4,500 30/11/99 3 £480.71 £94.21 £574.92 Postal
£4,500 03/05/02 3 £530.36 £73.00 £603.36 Telephone
£5,200 12/10/02 3 £477.05 £58.16 £535.21 Telephone
(There was another loan with PPI sold in 2003, but this matter was previously resolved and it doesnt form part of 
this complaint).
The 4 policies in the table above were all very similar to one another: all provided cover for 
disability, unemployment and life protection  subject to exclusions and limitations. In the 
event of a successful disability claim, the policies offered to repay Mrs Ms loans until the 
disability ceased, or until the loan(s) ended. The policies also offered to pay her loans for up 
12 months in the event of unemployment. For death, they paid off the loan minus any 
arrears. 
Mrs M was employed in various roles over the span of these loans and weve been given 
brief details about her sick pay being around 30 days in length. Looking at what she did, I 
agree her sick pay entitlements would have been in this region. 
Ive been made aware she suffered from irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), but the information 
about this isnt entirely clear and it looks to me as if no formal diagnosis was ever made 
when these PPI sales were taking place. However, Ive thought carefully about all Mrs Ms 
circumstances at the point of each PPI sale.
Mrs Ms representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf 
about each sale. I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all 
carefully. In summary, Mrs Ms representative says:
Nationwide failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Mrs M wouldnt 
have taken out each policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mrs Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The cover excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
the cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Nationwide should 
have told Mrs M about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms were unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs M and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaints about any of the PPI sales. 
Both parties have seen and provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs M 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be 
resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms complaint
These sales took place between 1998 and 2002. The first 2 sales were before the General 
Insurance Standards Council (GISC) published its code of practice in June 2000 and all 
sales were before the sale of general insurance products like this became regulated in 
January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for 
Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreements had all concluded by 2003. That means the unfair relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other 
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and 
these other publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ms case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into account what 
determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of the might have been 
expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under the Building 
Societies Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when considering Mrs Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
- If Nationwide gave advice, whether it advised Mrs M with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances. 
- Whether Nationwide gave Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. - If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs M suffered loss or 
damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs M and 
Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs M know she had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional in each case. 
I therefore start with the observation that for Mrs M not have understood the PPI was 
optional, she would have needed to have been misled on 4 separate sale occasions. I 
consider that quite unlikely.
However, we also know quite a bit about how these Nationwide single premium PPI sales 
tended to work, because weve seen many complaints. Weve therefore worked with the 
business to fully understand all the processes and paperwork that was typically involved. 
For example, postal sales usually involved the consumer filling out an application form and 
sending it off. For other types of sale, in my experience, there was usually a discussion in a 
Nationwide branch or over the telephone. But in all these cases the loan amount and 
conditions were established and this was followed by the credit agreement being printed out 
and / or sent to the consumer for them to check and sign. It looks like all the loans probably 
fitted into at least one of the above scenarios in some way  Mrs M would have received a 
credit agreement to sign each time.
A central point of Mrs Ms complaint is that she wasnt given information about the cost of the 
PPI. But Im afraid my experience of these sales is different. As Ive said above, consumers 
like Mrs M were given the relevant credit agreement and in my experience it set out the cost 
of the loan, the cost of the PPI part of the loan and the total of both these amounts. The 
credit agreements would each have also described the PPI  with the costs shown as above 
 as optional credit insurance. So Mrs M would have been able to see the PPI was optional, 
rather than compulsory.
As Ive implied, we dont seem to have quite as much information about loan number 1 (the 
1998 sale), but given how long ago this was, this isnt unusual. And businesses arent 
required to keep documents indefinitely. Nevertheless, for loan number 2, I see her postal 
application form did have a section about PPI on it. Mrs M ticked the box which said YES, I 
would like to take advantage of the peace of mind offered by Loan Care Cover / Payment 
Protection Cover, in the event that I am unable to work due to involuntary unemployment 
accident sickness or death. She also signed the application form directly below this space. 
She was then sent the credit agreement  which she also signed  with the optional nature 
set out on it as Ive described above. So I think the evidence is very strong that she wanted 
to protect this loan with PPI.
Ive seen similar documents for loan number 3 and an example of the loan 4 paperwork too. 
So, my experience tends to support the notion that Mrs M applied for loans 1  4 and knew 
each time she was also accepting an optional PPI policy. 
I think theres good evidence Mrs M would have been able to see PPI was something she 
had a choice about and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure each time. did Nationwide provide advice?
Nationwide says it didnt provide advice during these sales. Looking at what happened when 
Nationwide sold Mrs M the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. Thats because 
theres no indication there was a discussion about her wider financial needs or 
circumstances and we do see that most such sales were non-advised.
This means Nationwide didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs M each time. 
Instead, it had to give sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mrs M to make 
an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention 
and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy 
and significant limitations and exclusions.
 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs M was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect the payments if Mrs M was 
unable to work through accident, sickness and unemployment.) I have reached this 
conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs M would have taken out the policy without any 
sense of what the policy was. And I think Mrs M knew that the single premium being added 
to the loan. This information was, in my view, sufficiently clear on each agreement she 
signed.
But the evidence from the time of sales doesnt tell us whether Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit before Mrs M agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont think Nationwide gave Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mrs Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ms. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the 
insurer. 
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Mrs M about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the way Mrs M has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings have on Mrs M? To what extent did Mrs M 
suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide probably didnt do all it should have done when it sold the policies 
to Mrs M. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mrs M suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not 
Mrs M would have still taken out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mrs M says she would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs M had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure 
against the risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
may have made this decision based on incomplete information. So its likely that what Mrs M 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a 
relevant consideration when determining if Mrs M has suffered any loss or detriment. 
As Ive already said, the information Mrs M was given about the cost was clear enough. But 
the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mrs M would get back in return in the 
event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs Ms expectations about what 
the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet her loan payments) 
were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs M thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded certain claims relating to medical conditions that Mrs M knew 
about or ought to have known about 12 months before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mrs M 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might well have 
caused Mrs M pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the policy 
wasnt as good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs M from taking out the policy. 
However, the evidence about Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and 
it provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to 
her should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to 
suggest she would have been caught by any of the significant exclusions; theres no supporting evidence she had any pre-existing medical conditions at the time of the sales as 
the IBS hadnt been formally diagnosed. Even if thats not right, theres nothing suggesting 
Mrs M would have been thinking this condition was such that extended time off work was a 
possibility because of it. She was also in permanent employment. So, I still think she had 
some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental health conditions or place any additional restrictions 
or more onerous evidential requirements in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mrs M would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence to 
support that claim.
Having looked carefully, I think the policies did provide a pro-rata refund if they were 
cancelled early, so the policies provided enough flexibility if Mrs M decided to repay the 
loans early and cancel the policies. I take note that she did fit into this criterion by borrowing 
back to back, but as she was refunded the PPI to start over again with a new policy, I dont 
think she was disadvantaged in this particular case.
 
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs M would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close to what 
its likely she thought she was getting and provided benefits that would help her manage the 
consequences were Mrs M made redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mrs M would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ms representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs M would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mrs M 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs M believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would represent fair compensation to put Mrs M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should pay Mrs M compensation, as that would put her in a better position than 
she would have been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ms representative says a court might take if it 
were to find Nationwide had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs M in a better position than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman