DRN-3926813
The complaint
Mr J complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Home Insurance (UKI), 
through its agents delayed in repairing his drain and wastepipe in respect of his claim for 
accidental damage under his home insurance. Mr J is vulnerable because of his age and 
health problems.
What happened
On 29 July 2021 Mr J contacted UKI to make a claim. During recent rainfall he had noticed 
sewage coming out of his drainage pipe at the front of his house. UKI appointed an engineer 
from a company, A, who attended the next day and carried out a CCTV survey. A broken 
pipe was diagnosed. Unfortunately A was only able to return to do the repairs on 13 August. 
Mr J was offered the chance to appoint his own contractors, but on being told that UKI 
wouldnt guarantee such a repair, decided to wait until A could carry out the repair. 
In the meantime Mr J had use of the toilet but there was still a risk of it overflowing. He 
advised that he and his wife would be able to use their daughters facilities, who lived about 
a third of a mile away.
On 13 August A returned to do the repair but in inserting a drain liner in the pipe, that liner 
became twisted and A had to bring in another contractor to excavate the area and remove it. 
This took place on 17 to 18 August. The contractor was due to return on 21 August but due 
to a mix up with his diary, he wasnt able to return to complete the job until 1 September 
2021.
Mr J believes there were faulty repairs carried out which otherwise should have been 
completed in a day. He says he and his wife had to live for a month without toilet facilities as 
when they attempted to use the toilet it produced very unpleasant smells.  
He complained to UKI who said the toilet facilities were all there except for a short period 
between 13 and 18 August 2021. It offered £30 for the delays.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our investigator ultimately took the view 
that Mr J and his wife were without the full use of toilet facilities for about a month. As they 
had the inconvenience of having to use their daughters facilities, she said that UKI should 
pay compensation of £300.  
UKI disagreed, asserting that Mr and Mrs J were only without facilities for five days, during 
which time Mr J had said they were prepared to use their daughters facilities.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is some dispute as to whether Mr Js toilet facilities were in use at any time during 
August 2021. A insisted that the toilet was only out of use for five days, and UKI says that 
Mr J was made aware of the possibility of staying in alternative accommodation during that 
time.
Following Mr Js report of sewage coming out of the drainage system, there was a CCTV 
investigation on 30 July 2021. The survey revealed a section of collapsed pipework and 
multiple accounts of root ingress. The defects identified are affecting the function of the 
below ground drainage system, restricting the flow, and subsequently leading to the issues 
being experienced at the customers property. An accidental damage claim was accepted.
I dont think the toilet was in proper use from then, at least not without the likelihood of more 
sewage overflowing into the garden. Mr J was made aware that he could use his own 
contractor but he opted to use UKIs as it couldnt guarantee his own contractors repair. 
Although it was inconvenient for him and his wife, he had told UKI that they could use their 
daughters facilities and she lived just down the road.
As for the repairs on 13 August from what Ive seen from the reports and also Mr Js 
evidence, A tried to fit in a liner which had become twisted and had to be excavated by a 
specialist contractor. 
A said about this attempt at repair It is unfortunately [sic] that the repairs have gone awry in 
this [sic] circumstances and [A] apologise for any inconvenience caused to the customer. It 
is regrettable that in attempting to repair the drain in the least invasive way possible, that 
such inconvenience has been caused to the customer.
That does appear to me that A accepted it was at fault. And it was admitted that the toilet 
was unusable for the next five days. Whether it was usable after that is difficult to say. But 
the full repairs hadnt been carried out and werent completed for nearly a fortnight. And 
although Mr J was told he could use it this was on the basis that if it became blocked he 
could call out A to jet the blockage. Mr J said he and his wife attempted to use it but stopped 
doing so because of the bad smells coming from it.
Whilst Mr J could have called A out again it would have been very inconvenient  I dont 
think the toilet was in full use after the 18 August.
The delay until 1 September was As fault  the contractor was supposed to be returning ion 
21 August but due to a mix up the date wasnt put in his diary. So Mr and Mrs J had to wait 
another ten days for the toilet to be restored to a fully usable state..
So I think that Mr and Mrs A were left without a fully functioning toilet for a month and from at 
least 13 August 2021 A was at fault for this being the case. Whilst Mr and Mrs J were offered 
the option to contact UKI about alternative accommodation on 13 August, I understand that 
they didnt feel the need to do this as they thought the work would be completed within 5 
days. 
So I think that, as its responsible for its contractors, UKI should pay compensation of £300 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs J by not having a fully 
functioning toilet during this period.
Putting things right
UKI should pay Mr J £300 compensation. My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Home 
Insurance to provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman