DRN-2371142
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim made under 
their home insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr and Mrs W raised an escape of water (EOW) claim for their bathroom 
through their home insurance policy underwritten by AXA. 
AXA assessed the damage by video call. During the call Mr and Mrs W said they were doing 
a bathroom makeover but wanted AXA to settle for the damage caused by the EOW.
AXA made an offer of settlement. Mr and Mrs W declined AXAs offer, withdrew their claim, 
and complained. They said the offer was too low based on the damage and said AXAs 
claims advisor was unhelpful in dealing with the claim. Mr and Mrs W added that following 
strip out works, the extent of the damage meant that more extensive repairs were needed.
AXA reviewed Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and said its claim handler assessed the claim 
correctly based on the information available. It offered Mr and Mrs W £30 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to our service for 
review. Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint not be 
upheld. She found AXA had assessed the claim fairly up to the point that it was withdrawn by   
Mr and Mrs W. She didnt find any evidence of avoidable delays caused by AXA. And she 
confirmed AXA was willing to re-open the claim and review the settlement offer.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with our investigators opinion. They said AXA hadnt completed a 
full assessment of the damage, and so it had deliberately reduced the settlement value to 
avoid paying out anything further. They added that they needed to do the strip out work to 
find the extent of the EOW damage and had to act quickly as they were without a bathroom 
or shower. So they had no choice to withdraw the claim and do the repairs themselves.
Our investigator maintained her position that AXAs initial assessment of the damage was 
reasonable. She said that as the claim was withdrawn before AXA could investigate further, 
or consider any repair estimates, it didnt mean that it was deliberately reducing the 
settlement. She added that if the property was uninhabitable due to a lack of bathroom 
facilities, then AXA could have considered alternative accommodation. And as Mr as Mrs W 
had done the repairs themselves, AXA couldnt be held liable for the work completed.
Mr and Mrs W asked for an ombudsmans decision. In addition to the points already made, 
they added that if theyd known the costs could be reviewed upon further damage being 
found, it may have persuaded them to continue with the claim.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive checked Mr and Mrs Ws policy terms to see what AXA would reasonably be expected to 
do when settling a claim under the policy.
Under the section titled How we will settle your claim it states:
If we cannot replace or repair the property we may pay for the loss or damage in cash or 
cash alternativeWhere we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but 
we agree to pay a cash or cash alternative settlement, then payment will not exceed the 
amount we would have paid the preferred supplier. If no equivalent replacement is available 
then we will pay the full replacement cost of the item with no discount applied 
I think the terms are clear here in explaining how AXA would be required to settle the claim. 
As it hadnt appointed a repairer, it needed to offer a settlement in line with what it would 
cost Mr and Mrs W to repair the damaged area. 
Ive considered the claim notes provided by AXA when the claim was initially assessed via a 
video call. I understand Mr and Mrs W have concerns that this method of investigation 
wouldnt necessarily show all of the damage. But I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to 
use this method to get the claim progressed. AXA has said it has tools to scope the damage 
and provide a settlement figure in line with the market value. I can see it also confirmed to 
Mr and Mrs W that following the assessment its cash offer would be on a like for like basis. 
So Im satisfied AXA offered a settlement in line with the policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs W are disputing the settlement amount as they say its too low to cover the 
additional repairs needed. In response, AXA has said it was planning to appoint a floor 
contractor to assess the costs for the replacement floor but was unable to as Mr and Mrs W 
withdrew the claim. Having considered everything, I am persuaded on balance that it is likely 
AXA would have continued to investigate the damage and further costs if the claim remained 
open. So I cant fairly hold it responsible for Mr and Mrs Ws decision to stop the claim. 
I can see AXA has offered Mr and Mrs W £30 compensation following feedback about the 
tone of the claim handler. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I havent 
seen any evidence of avoidable delays  the claim was open for a short time before            
Mr and Mrs W withdrew it  so I wont require AXA to compensate them further. 
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ws comment that had they been aware that AXA would have 
continued to consider additional costs at the time, it may have led to them keeping the claim 
open. But based on everything Ive seen, I dont think AXAs actions have disadvantaged   
Mr and Mrs W. I say this because if Mr and Mrs W wish for AXA to review the claim and its 
settlement offer, it will still need to see evidence of the work carried out. And it appears      
Mr and Mrs W havent provided any invoices or receipts to AXA to dispute these costs. 
It is up to Mr and Mrs W if they now look to supply AXA with the receipts and invoices of the 
completed work. If as a result AXA does make a payment towards the costs of the repairs,    
I find it reasonable for this to be recorded as claim costs under the policy. However any 
developments here should be treated as a separate matter outside of this complaint.
In conclusion, I find both AXAs offer to review the claim, and its compensation payment 
reasonable, so I dont require it to do anything further.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman