DRN-2519613
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with how Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) handled his claim 
under his car insurance policy.
What happened
On 31 July 2019, Mr Es car was stolen. He reported it to Skyfire and they started to consider 
the claim. In the belief the car wouldnt be found, he bought another one shortly afterwards. 
On 23 August 2019, the car was recovered and on 4 September 2019, it was brought to 
Skyfires approved repairers to be inspected. 
Mr E said as he was told there was minimal damage to the car, he didnt expect the repair to 
take long so as he had already bought another car, he declined the offer for a courtesy car. 
Mr E sent the car keys to Skyfire so they could be forwarded to the repairers. However the 
keys werent received by them. After several days, it was discovered the keys had been sent 
to salvage agents in error. They were re-directed to the repairers and eventually received at 
the beginning of October 2019. Also as the V5 document (logbook) was sent by Skyfire to Mr 
E in error, he was required to travel to the repairers to deliver it. Due to these issues, there 
was a delay of around four weeks in inspecting Mr Es car.
The car required more repairs than initially thought and Mr E asked Skyfire to write it off. It 
had travelled around 3,000 miles after it was stolen and personal possessions had also been 
taken. However Skyfire considered the car to be repairable and authorised for repairs to be 
carried out. They paid £250 to Mr E for his stolen possessions and £240 for the depreciation 
value of the car. 
Mr E said despite being entitled to a courtesy car under his policy, he wasnt provided with 
one throughout the duration of this claim despite his requests. He was also unhappy with 
how the claim had been handled because Skyfire hadnt responded to his complaint points 
and they had given him incorrect and misleading information.
Mr E complained to Skyfire. In summary, he said:
- It wasnt necessary to provide proof of purchase to validate the claim;
- The keys & log book were sent to the wrong parties and this caused delays;
- He wasnt provided with a courtesy car;
- He hadnt been compensated for his stolen possessions and the 3,000 miles the car 
had travelled since it was stolen;
- He was unhappy with the consequential losses of the above and the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused. 
Skyfire accepted there had been failings in their service and they had poorly handled the 
situation with the keys and log book which caused unnecessary delays. By way of 
compensation, they offered to:
- pay one months insurance premium of £206.68;
- pay £30 for the road tax on Mr Es car;
- pay £10 per day to cover 12 days he was without a courtesy car (23 August to 4 
September 2019) 
In total, they offered £356.68 which was paid directly to Mr Es bank account. 
They also said once the approved repairer had completed an estimate of the damage, they 
would confirm whether the car would be repaired or written off. If repaired, the work would 
have a five year warranty. Lastly they said based on the terms of the policy, Mr E would be 
required to pay the £500 policy excess. Mr E was unhappy with this and felt the 
compensation wasnt enough given the circumstances.
Repairs were carried out on the car and it was returned to Mr E in December 2019. However 
he was unhappy as there were still outstanding issues with the paintwork and he suspected 
there was an oil leak. Skyfire agreed to carry out these further repairs however according to 
them, Mr E is unwilling to return his car given how the claim had been handled. 
Mr E referred the complaint to our service and our investigator recommended the case 
wasnt upheld. Although she agreed the service provided by Skyfire couldve been better, 
she believed they had done enough to put things right. Mr E disagreed and maintained his 
position. He has since told our service although he received correspondence that his policy 
would be automatically renewed, Skyfire didnt do so.
In December 2020, I issued a provisional decision and said:
Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my 
decision. Having done so, I dont intend to uphold Mr Es complaint and Ill explain why. 
The claim 
The terms of the policy say Skyfire can take over the claim and choose to defend, negotiate 
or settle it as they see fit. This is a common term in car insurance policies and it means 
Skyfire are solely responsible for determining how the claim should be settled. That said, I 
would expect them to do so fairly and reasonably. 
Although Mr E thought the car should be written off, Skyfire decided to repair it. Based on 
the claim notes of the cars market value and how much it would cost to repair, I believe 
Skyfires decision to repair it was reasonable. It follows that I dont think it was unfair for 
Skyfire to repair the car.
The keys and log book
The keys and log book were sent to the wrong parties and neither Skyfire or Mr E dispute 
this. Im satisfied an error was made but whats in dispute is whether the compensation 
offered is fair given the delays these mistakes led to. 
Skyfire paid one months insurance premium and road tax, which equates to around £230. 
Ive carefully considered what the parties have said and I appreciate the frustration Mr E 
mustve had during this time especially as he was in regular contact with Skyfire trying to 
establish the whereabouts of the keys and he was required to travel to the repairers to 
deliver the log book. However I consider Skyfires compensation amount to be reasonable 
given the trouble and upset caused. 
The courtesy car The policy terms say:
If following an accident or after sustaining fire or theft damage your car is being 
repaired by an approved repairer, we will provide you with an alternative car for the 
duration of repair. If the alternative car supplied is a courtesy car, it will be insured 
under this policy on the same terms and conditions as your car. A courtesy car is 
typically a small vehicle.
What is not covered
A courtesy car will not be provided if your car has been stolen, is a loss, falls under 
our new-car replacement scheme or if you choose a repairer not on the insurers 
approval panel.
This means Mr E was entitled to a courtesy car while the car was being repaired, not as a 
result of it being stolen. Skyfire considered the date the car was recovered, 23 August 2019, 
to be the start of the period Mr E was entitled to a courtesy car. They said they believed Mr E 
bought a new car on 4 September 2019. Skyfire concluded he was without a courtesy car for 
12 days (23 August to 4 September) and paid £120 as he wasnt provided with a courtesy 
car. This equates to £10 per day which is a long established approach our service adopts for 
such circumstances. However based on the claim notes I can see Mr E had in fact told them 
in August 2019 that he had bought another car. Had Skyfire correctly used this earlier date, 
Mr E wouldnt have been entitled to compensation for the courtesy car, so I cant agree they 
acted unfairly or Mr E has been financially disadvantaged. 
The purpose of an insurer providing a courtesy car is to ensure the policyholder is kept 
mobile. Mr E was initially offered a courtesy car but he declined this because he had bought 
another one and he believed the car was minimally damaged. As a courtesy car was offered 
but declined, I cant say Skyfire did anything wrong. 
Once there were delays due to the lost keys and it was clear the car would be repaired 
rather than written off, Mr E complained that he hadnt been supplied with a courtesy car and 
based on his communication to Skyfire, he didnt want to maintain two cars. I wouldve 
expected Skyfire to offer him the use of the courtesy car again at that point, which they did. 
They said they would be willing to arrange one in October 2019 and I believe this was fair 
given the circumstances. 
Mr E accepted he was required to pay the policy excess however he said he wasnt willing to 
pay this upfront due to the poor handling of his claim. He also indicated that he would keep 
the courtesy car for a number of days after his car was repaired, which was more than what 
the policy permitted. He said this would be compensation for the delays caused. As a result, 
Skyfire withdrew their offer in October 2019 to provide the courtesy car. While I accept Mr E 
was entitled to a courtesy car under his policy, given his comments that he didnt intend to 
follow the terms of the policy by keeping the courtesy car longer than he was entitled to, I 
think it was reasonable for Skyfire to withdraw their offer of the courtesy car and ask him to 
pay the excess upfront. 
By Mr Es own admission, he bought another car as a result of his car being stolen, not as a 
result of Skyfires actions when handling his claim. Therefore, I dont believe it would be fair 
to hold Skyfire responsible for him buying another car before the claim was settled. Nor do I 
believe they should be held responsible for the repair costs of this second car and if it was 
subsequently sold at a loss. Equally, I dont think Skyfire acted unfairly by not telling Mr E to 
cancel the insurance on the second car. Ultimately, this wouldve been Mr Es decision 
because Skyfire are only responsible for the car covered by their policy.
The repairsDue to the extent of the damage, Mr E requested a full inspection with the car manufacturer 
franchised dealership which Skyfire agreed to and arranged for October 2019. However as 
Mr E said he wasnt willing to pay the excess upfront due to the ongoing dispute, this 
appointment was cancelled. It was eventually re-arranged for a later time in November 2019 
but this ultimately increased the overall duration of the repairs. Given the situation, I believe 
it was fair for Skyfire to cancel the appointment until matters were resolved. 
Based on the claim notes, I can see once it was clear what repairs were required, Skyfire 
authorised them and these were carried out between November and December 2019. Im 
satisfied no material delays were caused. However Im aware Mr E is unhappy because he 
was told paintwork repairs would be carried out on the body of the car and he also 
suspected there was an oil leak. Im sorry to hear that there were still issues with the car. 
Having considered the job cards, pictures and the list of authorised repairs, I can see the 
paintwork repairs was carried out but I appreciate Mr Es comments this wasnt carried out to 
a satisfactory standard as there were still chip marks. It is disappointing this wasnt carried 
out to a satisfactory standard and I wouldve expected Skyfire to carry out a further repair to 
rectify this. At the time of the repair, there was no evidence to suggest there was an issue 
with the oil or that it was leaking so I cant say they did anything wrong there. Skyfire offered 
to carry out these outstanding repairs so Im satisfied they acted reasonably. I understand   
Mr E was reluctant to return the car given the history of the claim but if he decided not to 
return the car, I cant hold Skyfire responsible for this.
Cancellation of the policy
Mr E said despite being told his policy would be automatically renewed on 13 May 2020, this 
didnt happen and he doesnt believe he was provided with sufficient notice when it was 
cancelled. Skyfire said the policy wasnt renewed because they were unable to set up a 
payment plan and emails had been sent to Mr E asking him to get in contact. As they didnt 
hear from him, the policy wasnt renewed and it came to an end. 
The renewal notice that was sent in April 2020 said the following:
If your first payment is unable to be collected, well take this to mean youd prefer not 
to continue your car insurance with us and well cancel your policy with immediate 
effect from your renewal date
Skyfire said they werent able to take payment for providing cover so based on the above, 
they were entitled to cancel the policy and not renew it. Im satisfied they did what they said 
they would do so I dont think it was wrong for them to cancel the policy. Mr E was later sent 
emails that the policy hadnt renewed and if he didnt want this to happen, I think it wouldve 
been reasonable for him to contact them about reinstating the policy and making a payment 
but there is no evidence this happened.  
Summary 
Overall, its clear there were failings by Skyfire in regard to the keys, logbook and delays but 
for the reasons explained above, Im satisfied theyve done enough by the compensation 
theyve paid. In regard to the repairs for the paintwork and alleged oil leak, they offered to 
carry out these further repairs so I cant say they done anything wrong. 
For all other aspects of the complaint, I believe Skyfire acted fairly and in line with the terms 
of the policy in order to settle Mr Es claim.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties were invited to respond and give their further comments in response to the 
provisional decision. Skyfire responded to say they agreed with the findings however Mr E 
didnt respond.
As no further information nor evidence has been provided for me to consider, Ive decided to 
reach the same decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman