DRN-3589919
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt offer support when he had financial 
difficulties due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He says he had to sell his property and asks that 
Barclays refunds the early repayment charge (ERC).
What happened
Mr W says his income dropped due to the pandemic. Barclays agreed payment deferrals for 
six months, but Mr W was still experiencing financial problems when this ended. He says 
Barclays:
didnt offer suitable support. While it said he could make interest only payments for six 
months this was on the basis he made higher payments afterwards. Mr W said he 
couldnt afford this and didnt know if the pandemic would be over by then.
put many of his calls on hold, failed to call him when it said it would, sent texts about 
arrears without a contact, and didnt respond appropriately to his complaint.
applied an ERC. He said he wasnt aware of the ERC when he took out the product 
(which wasnt the product hed selected online). He had to decline offers for the property 
as he needed to sell it for enough to cover the ERC.
Our investigator said while Mr W said selling the property was his last resort, this didnt 
mean Barclays had to waive the ERC. The investigator said Barclays had failed to return 
Mr Ws calls. She said it should pay £200 for the upset this caused, which it agreed to do.
Mr W said, in summary, he hadnt been treated fairly and would never recover from the 
financial loss this caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays agreed payment deferrals, in accordance with the regulators guidelines, for March 
to August 2020. Unfortunately, when this ended Mr W was still experiencing financial 
difficulties and couldnt meet his contractual monthly payments. He says he contacted 
Barclays multiple times to ask for help.
Barclays says it searched its records and provided all available call recordings. Mr W says 
he made more calls for which Barclays hasnt provide recordings. While I understand Mr Ws 
frustration about this, I have enough information and evidence to reach a fair decision.
I should explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Did Barclays respond fairly when Mr W asked for support during his financial difficulties?
Barclays agreed to payment deferrals for six months, including August 2020. Mr W asked 
about switching to interest only payments in mid-September 2020. Barclays said this was 
possible as a temporary measure, and hed need to provide income and expenditure 
information and discuss this with the team dealing with requests for support. 
Unfortunately, I dont have recordings of Mr Ws calls with this team. But based on what 
Mr W has said and other available information, I dont think Barclays treated Mr W unfairly 
when he asked for support during his financial difficulties.
Mr W said the basis on which Barclays offered a temporary switch to interest only payments 
was unfair. This was because it said payments would increase after this ended to cover the 
capital that wasnt repaid during this period. Mr W says he didnt know if hed be back on full 
salary in six months and felt under pressure to commit to payments that were unaffordable 
on his current (lower) income. While Mr W later said Barclays told him he had to repay the 
capital in a lump sum, I think this is unlikely and it isnt consistent with Mr W also saying it 
told him monthly payments would increase. Most likely, Barclays said this was an alternative. 
I think it was fair for Barclays to explain that Mr W should expect payments to increase 
following a period of interest only payments. This was necessary if the mortgage was to be 
repaid within its term. I dont think it was unfair for Barclays to tell Mr W he could make a 
lump sum payment instead if he was able to do so.
I think it was fair for Barclays to offer support on the basis Mr W was experiencing short term 
difficulties related to the pandemic. If Mr W was still having difficulties at the end of the 
interest only payments period, Id have expected Barclays to discuss with him at that time 
what further support it could offer. 
Mr W says Barclays declined his request for consent to let the property. Mr W was living in 
the property and theres no evidence he made an application for consent to let. If Mr W 
wanted to look into his options, such as letting the property rather than selling it, moving to 
interest only payments for six months would have given him time to do so.
Was Barclays service appropriate?
Mr W made a complaint to Barclays on 24 September 2020. He said hed asked about 
interest only payments but no-one had got back to him. He said he was selling the property 
but had been told there was an ERC of £8,000. He said this would leave nothing for him. He 
said hed looked into switching to buy to let and needed to be contacted by someone who 
can allow this. Mr W said to resolve his complaint he wanted Barclays to reduce the ERC to 
something more affordable or for someone to call and offer other options.
In late October 2020 Barclays sent a series of texts saying it wouldnt waive the ERC. The 
texts also said if Mr W wanted to convert the mortgage to buy to let hed need to contact a 
mortgage adviser and make an application. It gave a contact number for Mr W to call if he 
was in financial difficulties.
Mr W said sending short texts isnt a good enough response to his complaint. As complaint 
handling isnt itself a regulated activity this isnt something I can look into unless it affects the 
resolution of the underlying problem. I dont think that was the case here. The texts did 
address Mr Ws main concern  whether Barclays would waive all or part of the ERC  and 
how to go about converting to buy to let terms. 
Mr W says he made multiple attempts to contact Barclays to discuss his options. He says he was passed around departments and told someone would call him back. Theres little 
evidence to support this. Mr W was able to discuss a temporary switch to interest only 
payments with Barclays (albeit he didnt like the basis on which this was offered). He was 
told how to start the process of applying to convert to buy to let. And he received a response 
to his request for the ERC to be waived well before his planned completion date. While Mr W 
says texts about his arrears didnt have contact details, he was able to contact Barclays.
But there was some poor service here  which Barclays accepts. Ive listened to the call 
recordings and there were call backs that didnt happen, Mr W was put on hold during calls 
and transferred to other teams. Some of this was unavoidable, as Mr W did need to speak to 
specialist teams, for instance to discuss his request to make interest only payments. But this 
happened during what must have been a difficult time for Mr W. His income was affected by 
the pandemic and he was selling his home. I think its fair that Barclays pays compensation 
for the additional upset its poor service caused during this time. I think, in the circumstances, 
£200 is fair and reasonable.
Is it fair to require Barclays to refund the ERC?
Mr W took out a five-year fixed interest rate product in 2019. This product included an ERC. 
Mr W agreed to this when he took out the product. Mr W repaid the mortgage and Barclays 
applied the ERC, as it was entitled to do under the mortgage terms and conditions. 
Mr W says this is unfair. He says he was forced to sell the property, and hed wanted a 
different product with a lower ERC.
Mr W says he tried to take out a product online in 2019 with a smaller ERC. Barclays said it 
wasnt possible for Mr W to take out a product online due to the type of mortgage he had, 
and there was also a discrepancy with his postcode. Mr W disputes this, saying hed taken 
out a product online before. However, regardless of the reason Mr W was unable to take out 
a new product online, he did take out a new product. This was the product in place when he 
repaid the mortgage. The ERC is clearly set out in the product offer sent to Mr W. If he 
wasnt happy with this, he could have declined the product.
I dont think Barclays was responsible for Mr Ws decision to sell the property. I think it was 
fair for Barclays to explain that following a period of interest only payments Mr W would need 
to make additional payments or higher monthly payments to repay the capital. While Mr W 
says Barclays should have offered other options, I think accepting interest only payments for 
six months would have allowed Mr W time to see what happened with his income and to look 
into what options he might have, such as letting the property.
Barclays was contacted by Mr Ws solicitor in late September 2020 for a redemption 
statement, so it seems Mr W had already started the process to sell the property. Mr W 
might well have thought that selling the property was his best  or even his only option. But I 
dont think its fair to say that he had to do so because Barclays treated him unfairly. If Mr W 
didnt want to sell the property at that time, he could have switched to interest only payments 
and decided later what to do. 
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays to refund all or 
part of the ERC or pay further compensation to Mr W.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £200 to 
Mr W, as it agreed to do. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman