DRN-2075630
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited declined his claim for a 
damaged TV under the accidental damage part of his home contents policy.
What happened
When Mr O moved house, he transported his TV himself so that it wasnt damaged in the 
move. However, when he installed the TV on the wall bracket in his new home, he found the 
screen had a blank patch.
Mr O initially tried to get the issue resolved under the TV warranty, but he then contacted 
Lloyds to make a claim. This was turned down because Lloyds said the TV had been 
damaged in the house move and would only have been covered if it had been professionally 
moved. 
When Mr O complained, Lloyds maintained its decision to decline the claim. The TV screen 
was also now cracked, so it suggested Mr O pursue this with the retailer, who Mr O had said 
caused this damage. Lloyds also paid Mr O a £75 gesture of goodwill due to the service it 
had provided when dealing with the claim.
Mr O complained to this service. He said that the TV wasnt damaged in the move. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that there wasnt sufficient evidence to 
show when the initial damage to the TV was caused and so she thought it was reasonable 
for Lloyds to turn down the claim.
As Mr O did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main issue I need to consider is whether Lloyds acted reasonably by turning down the 
insurance claim. Looking at Mr Os complaint, there are three different times that the TV was 
damaged. The first was that there was a blank patch on the screen. This happened around 
the time Mr O moved house. The second damage was a crack in the screen, which Mr O 
said happened when a retailer was inspecting the TV to see if the initial damage was 
covered by the warranty. The third damage was more extensive cracking to the screen, 
which Mr O said happened when the TV was being inspected by Lloyds.
When a policyholder makes a claim, they need to show that an insured event took place. I 
note that Mr O only made a claim to Lloyds after the TV screen had been cracked - the 
second damage described above. Mr Os reason for waiting until that point makes sense. He 
was trying to see if the issue with the blank patch could be resolved under the warranty 
before making an insurance claim. But this meant that by the time Mr O made the insurance 
claim, the TV screen was cracked. 
As part of the claim Mr O provided the job details form from the retailer. This showed that 
the fault reported to the retailer was Crack on the screen, customer has stated he had not 
dropped or marked the TV. In the Work Done section it said Returned unrepaired as 
screen has been damaged by end user and is not cost effective to replace the panel. So, 
this didnt show that there was a blank patch, but it did show that there was physical 
damage to the TV. 
But Mr Os account of how and when that damage happened was different to the written 
evidence that he provided. Mr O said the damage was caused, possibly deliberately, by the 
retailer who inspected the TV, but the written evidence he provided from the retailer said the 
crack was already there and was the reason it was asked to look at the TV. So, if Lloyds had 
accepted the written evidence, it would have done so despite Mr O clearly saying that wasnt 
how the damage had happened. If, however, it accepted what Mr O said, that the damage 
was caused by the retailer, the policy didnt cover damage caused in that way.
Lloyds also assessed the TV and the report said: 
"Upon inspection the unit is powering up, responds to remote controller and backlight is 
working. Unit suffered physical damage to the screen that resulted in a crack spreading all 
over the screen. During inspection no loose connections, liquid damage or visible wear and 
tear found. Damage to the unit most likely caused by falling face down/been dropped. 
Possible damage in transit."
So, regardless of any blank patch on the screen, by the time of the claim, Mr Os evidence 
showed that the TV was damaged beyond economic repair due to a crack that he said had 
been caused, very possibly deliberately, by the retailer. Lloyds own assessment then 
showed that the TV had some working functions, but had significant cracking, probably 
caused by it falling or being dropped, possibly while in transit.
On that basis, I dont think Lloyds had clear evidence of a blank patch, but did have evidence 
of cracking, which Mr O said was caused by the retailer. So, I think it was reasonable for 
Lloyds to turn down the claim for accidental damage and instead to suggest that Mr O 
pursue the damage further with the retailer.
Im also aware that Mr O has said that the damage to the screen was worse when it was 
returned to him after Lloyds inspected the TV. However, looking at the report by the retailer, 
regardless of how that damage was caused, I think the screen was already damaged to such 
a degree that it was beyond economic repair before Lloyds inspected the TV. So even if the 
screen was cracked further, I cant see that Mr O was any worse off as a result of this. Had it 
been an item that could reasonably have been repaired, I might have thought differently 
about this, but I cant see that that is the case here. Mr O had to replace the TV anyway, the 
only question was whether his insurance would cover it.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to turn down the claim 
and I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Louise O'SullivanOmbudsman