DRN-3880546
The complaint
Mrs E complains about the quality of a car windscreen Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
(Admiral) replaced following a claim on her car insurance policy and about the effect this had 
on her.
Mr E, a named driver on Mrs Es policy, has at times dealt with Mrs Es claim, so Ill also 
refer to him in this decision.
Admiral is the underwriter of Mrs Es policy, so its her insurer. But part of this complaint 
concerns the actions of an agent of Admirals. As Admiral has accepted its accountable for 
the actions of its agent, references to Admiral include the actions of its agent.
What happened
Mrs E notified Admiral of a crack in her car windscreen. Admiral replaced it with a 
windscreen made from stock glass, rather than original equipment or OE glass (that is, 
glass from the original supplier used in the manufacture of Mrs Es car). 
Shortly afterwards, Mrs E told Admiral there was a loud noise coming from the windscreen 
and the glass was distorted. Admiral inspected the windscreen and found there was a 
technical fault with the glass. 
Admiral told Mrs E it would fit another replacement windscreen, which it said would also be 
of stock glass, since thats what her policy entitled her to. Because of her experience with 
the first replacement, Mrs E said she wanted OE glass. Admiral said it would only fit OE 
glass if Mrs E agreed to pay the difference in cost between OE and stock glass. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs E paid to have the replacement windscreen inspected by the cars 
manufacturer. It said some of the trims werent fitted correctly and could come off at any 
time or let water into the car and affect the electrics. It also said the replacement 
windscreen was non-genuine. 
Following the inspection by Mrs Es cars manufacturer, Admiral agreed  as a gesture of 
goodwill  to replace the windscreen with one made with OE glass.
Mr E and Mrs E complained to us that Admiral had done a terrible job with the windscreen  
replacements and had left them with a car that wasnt roadworthy. They say this caused 
stress and financial loss.
The investigator who looked at Mrs Es complaint upheld it. He recommended Admiral pay 
Mrs E £530 for the loss of use of her car for the 53-day period between the first and second 
replacement windscreens being fitted. He also said Admiral should reimburse the cost of the 
car manufacturers inspection.
Admiral disagrees with our investigators findings. It says it couldve fitted a second 
replacement windscreen when Mrs E initially reported the fault with the first one but she 
turned this down because she wanted OE glass, which her policy didnt entitle her to. So 
Admiral doesnt think it should pay Mrs E for the loss of use of her car.
Mrs Es complaint has therefore now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Es car insurance policy covered her for the repair or replacement of broken glass in her 
cars windscreen. It also said if Admiral needed to replace any glass, it could use glass that 
wasnt from the cars manufacturer, as long as it was of a similar standard and quality.
Admirals position is that it offered Mrs E a second replacement windscreen made from stock 
glass multiple times and the customer has declined booking an appointment each time, 
advising they will only accept OE. And it says Mrs E didnt qualify for OE glass because of 
the terms of her policy, which Ive set out above. 
Mr E and Mrs E say they refused to allow Admiral to fit a windscreen made of stock glass 
because of fear of them causing further damage to our car, which they describe as not 
usable and not fit for purpose. They also say: We have completely lost confidence in 
[Admiral] and their ability to resolve the issues and the issues surrounding using less 
superior glass to what was originally installed in the vehicle.
Admiral doesnt dispute the first windscreen it fitted, made from stock glass, was faulty. It 
says this was a fault with the individual windscreen and not a wider issue. I dont know if 
Admiral explained this to Mr E and Mrs E. But, even if it did, I can understand why Mr E and 
Mrs E wouldnt be confident having a windscreen made from stock glass fitted to the car a 
second time  as they say, they feared thered be further damage to the car. Also, the cars 
manufacturer, in addition to highlighting faults with the fitting of the first replacement 
windscreen, described the glass as non-genuine. I think this wouldve made Mr E and    
Mrs E feel even less confident about having another windscreen made from stock glass 
fitted. So, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it was unreasonable 
of Mrs E to refuse to accept this.
In the end, and very shortly after Mrs Es car was inspected by the cars manufacturer, as 
Ive mentioned, Admiral agreed to replace the faulty stock glass replacement windscreen 
with one made from OE glass. And the second replacement windscreen was fitted a couple 
of weeks later.
In the circumstances of this complaint, I think Admiral was right, second time round, to 
replace Mrs Es car windscreen with one made from OE glass. But it wasnt until after the 
manufacturers inspection that it agreed to do this. Mrs E has said consistently that, until the 
second replacement windscreen was fitted  which was a number of weeks after the first 
faulty replacement  she didnt have the use of her car. She says she has two small children 
and didnt want to risk driving with a faulty windscreen, which I can fully understand. And she 
says Admiral also confirmed that, if she drove the car with the faulty windscreen and had an 
accident, her insurance wouldnt cover her. Mr E and Mrs E say they cant stress enough 
the financial and stressful impact not having the use of the car had on them.  
In a phone call with our investigator, Mr E said he and Mrs E didnt have the use of the car 
from 25 July 2022 until 16 September 2022, a period of 53 days. And not being able to use the car is something Mr E and Mrs E frequently referred to when they contacted Admiral 
during Mrs Es claim. I can understand that not having her car for this length of time had a 
serious impact on Mrs E. So I think its fair and reasonable for Admiral to pay her 
compensation of £10 a day from 25 July 2022 until 16 September 2002 for the loss of use of 
her car.
I also think its fair and reasonable for Admiral to reimburse Mr E and Mrs E the fee they paid 
of £78 to get the first faulty windscreen inspected by the cars manufacturer.  Our 
investigator has sent Admiral a copy of the invoice for this inspection and proof its been 
paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Es complaint and direct Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to pay Mrs E:
£10 a day to compensate her for the loss of use of her car from 25 July 2022 to 16 
September 2022, a period of 53 days.
£78 to reimburse the cost of the cars manufacturers inspection. Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited should pay simple interest on this amount at the rate of 8% a year 
from the date the invoice was paid to the date of payment by Admiral.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman