DRN-2421307
The complaint
A Company which Ill refer to as S complains that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd 
(China Taiping) unfairly declined a claim under its business protection insurance policy.
Mr P who is a director of S brings the complaint on Ss behalf.
What happened
S holds a business protection insurance policy with China Taiping. Mr P made a claim on 
that policy to cover his losses arising from the business closure as a result of the national 
Government-imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
China Taiping declined the claim as it said COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the 
policy. Mr P didnt agree. He said he thought the wording of the policy, specifically the 
wording for notifiable disease, meant that his claim should be covered.
Mr P complained to China Taiping, but it explained that, although the policy would provide 
cover in the event of certain diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the named 
diseases. Mr P wasnt happy with its response so brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Ss complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that, 
while he sympathises with Mr Ps situation, he didnt think there was cover available under 
the policy. Mr P didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on S, but I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr P is looking to claim on Ss business protection insurance policy. These types of policies 
offer protection from risks common to business, but there are a range of business protection 
insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. When considering 
whether China Taiping acted fairly in declining Ss claim, the starting point is to consider the 
specific policy he took out. 
Having reviewed Ss policy, I dont think there are any terms which provide cover for the 
closure of his business as a result of the Governments response to the national pandemic. 
However, I would like to explain why I dont think the part of the policy which appears most 
relevant provides cover.
Ss policy included cover for Notifiable Disease. The policy states that it would provide cover 
for loss of income or additional expenditure resulting from:
(a) any occurrence of a Notifiable Disease at the Premises or attributable to food or
drink supplied from the Premises
(b) any discovery of an organism at the Premises likely to result in the occurrence of a
Notifiable Disease
(c) any occurrence of a Notifiable Disease within a radius of 25 miles of the Premises.
The policy provides a definition for Notifiable Disease, which sets out a list of specified 
illnesses that are covered under the policy. However, COVID-19 isnt on that list.
I realise that COVID-19 wasnt something China Taiping would have known about when the 
policy was drafted, but there are other policies that were on the market that do provide cover 
for the pandemic  usually policies that cover all Notifiable Diseases, which are set out and 
updated on a Government defined list. In contrast, Ss policy sets out a specific list of 
illnesses which are covered by the policy. And having reviewed the policy wording, there is 
nothing which implies that it provides cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses 
which might emerge. So I think the purpose of the policy is to provide cover in the event of 
the specific illnesses listed and I dont think the policy can or should fairly be interpreted as 
covering any illnesses that arent specified in the list set out in the policy.
Mr P has referred to the Financial Conduct Authoritys test case. His policy has a definitive 
list of specified diseases and this kind of policy wasnt the subject of the test case, so his 
comments dont change my decision. And while Im sorry to hear about the financial impact 
the government-imposed lockdown had on Mr P, having taken all of this into account and 
having considered the remaining terms of the policy, I dont think China Taiping acted 
unfairly in declining his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman