DRN-3984267
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the advice given by a business that Thinc Group Limited is now 
responsible for to transfer her deferred annuity, which her employer set up when her defined 
benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme closed, to a personal pension (PP). She says 
the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mrs G is represented by her son, Mr G. Whilst most of our dealings have been with Mr G, Ill 
mainly refer to the complaint as being brought to us by Mrs G within this decision.
What happened
Mrs G met with another business in 2006 to discuss her pension and retirement needs. 
Thinc has now taken on responsibility for the advice given by the other business. So, for 
ease Ill refer to all actions as being those of Thinc throughout this decision.
Mrs Gs DB scheme with her employer had been closed in 2001 and her employer 
purchased a deferred annuity for her. Mrs G could take the benefits under a deferred annuity 
at retirement. Alternatively, there were options for her to transfer the annuity. This is what 
she sought advice from Thinc about.
Thinc completed a fact-find to gather information about Mrs Gs circumstances and 
objectives. Mrs G was asked to tick a box to confirm her attitude to risk (ATR). She selected:
I do not mind a reasonable degree of risk in the hope that my benefits could be higher in 
retirement. I accept that I may lose some of the value of my investment as a result of taking 
risk.
On 9 June 2006, Thinc advised Mrs G to transfer her pension benefits into a personal 
pension. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
Obtaining greater control of her pension funds;
To improve on the benefits she could get under the annuity, including increased 
tax- free cash (TFC);
Retaining flexibility of the timing and form of her pension; and
Access to a range of investment funds.
Mrs G complained in 2021 to Thinc about the suitability of the transfer advice. She said she 
hadnt been made aware of the guaranteed income she was giving up and that the transfer 
wasnt in her best interests.
Thinc didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. It said, in summary, that Mrs G had been made 
aware of the risks of transferring her pension and that she may be worse off in retirement.
Mrs G referred her complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
required Thinc to pay compensation. He didnt think that the reasons Thinc had given for 
transferring the pension outweighed the benefits available to Mrs G compared to the 
guaranteed income she was giving up.
Thinc responded questioning part of our Investigators opinion. In short, it asked whether the 
fact that Mrs G had transferred her pension again in 2010 and taken some of her benefits as 
TFC should be considered when calculating redress. Our Investigator considered this point 
but was satisfied there was no pressing need for Mrs G to take TFC in 2010. And they were 
satisfied that Mrs G couldve raised the funds required in other ways, including utilising funds 
within other pensions which hadnt accrued as a result of the transfer.
Our Investigator maintained that using the regulators guidance on redress for unsuitable DB 
transfers remained appropriate in this case.
Both parties accepted the Investigators opinion. Thinc appointed an actuary to carry out the 
calculation for redress for Mrs G. However, it proved difficult for them to calculate the 
redress as this required input from the previous and current pension providers. After Thinc 
obtained further information from Mrs Gs original annuity provider (who Ill refer to as L), a 
mistake by L was identified. L realised that, whilst it had paid out the transfer value for 
Mrs Gs annuity to her PP in 2006 following Thincs advice, it had also kept the policy active. 
This meant that Mrs G had been able to transfer the pension again in 2018, at a significantly 
higher transfer value than previously. It said shed essentially benefitted twice from 
transferring the same annuity.
When asked about this, Mrs G said that she believed the funds transferred in 2018 related to 
a different, previously unknown, pension entitlement with her former employer.
Our Investigator contacted L to confirm some matters. L explained that Mrs G had 
transferred her full entitlement to her previous DB scheme in 2006. However, due to an error 
by L, it had never closed the policy. This is why Mrs G was able to again transfer her 
pension in 2018 with a transfer value in excess of £100,000. It confirmed this was the same 
annuity entitlement (not another section of benefits) and it had only recently become aware 
of the mistake. But given the time that had passed since the transfer, it was not going to 
attempt to reclaim this.
Upon review of this new information, our investigator felt it fair that Thinc be allowed to 
deduct the amount that had mistakenly been paid by L from any redress it may have to pay 
to Mrs G.
Thinc was reluctant to carry out the calculation of redress given the cost it would incur and 
the fact that it felt further matters, such as the present value of the second transfer that had 
occurred in error were currently unknown. Mrs G wasnt willing to accept the Investigators 
opinion until she had received Thincs calculation of redress. She also raised concerns with 
the transfer value shed received as this didnt correlate with her pension statements from 
1998 and 2000.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to consider.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 January 2023. I said, in summary, I didnt think the 
advice to transfer the deferred annuity to a personal pension was suitable. And I said that 
Thinc should undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review 
guidance - Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB transfers. I also said I thought it fair that Thinc be allowed to deduct the 
transfer value which was paid to Mrs G for a second time in error by L in 2018 from this 
redress.I invited both parties to respond to this provisional decision.
Mr G responded on behalf of Mrs G. He commented that he was surprised with the lack of 
any award for the distress and inconvenience this matter had caused and noted that Thinc 
had in effect been absolved of any financial responsibility due to a fortuitous error by L.
Thinc responded in detail. It said that it accepted its advice to Mrs G was unsuitable and the 
aim should be to put Mrs G back in the position she wouldve been in had its unsuitable 
advice not been given. However, it also noted that in 2018, when Mrs G reached her 
retirement age of 63, L wrote to her to offer her the chance to take an annuity but instead 
she transferred the pension held with L again  this time with a CETV of £100,000. So, Thinc 
pointed out that, regardless of its unsuitable advice, Mrs G (due to a mistake by L) had been 
able to access the same retirement benefits she wouldve been entitled to had she not been 
mis- advised. It said the CETV of around £60,000 which she transferred in 2006 should be 
that which was viewed over and above what she was entitled to given that shed transferred 
the same pension again in 2018.
The complaint was passed back to me to review again having regard to both Mr G and 
Thincs responses. Having done so, my opinion changed. I issued a second provisional 
decision on 13 February 2023. In this second provisional decision, I said:
Ive thought carefully about what both parties have said in response to my first provisional 
decision. It remains undisputed that the advice given by Thinc in 2006 wasnt suitable for 
Mrs G. However, as I previously said, I cant ignore the affect that the mistake by a separate 
business (L) in allowing the transfer to take place twice has had on Mrs Gs situation.
Had the unsuitable advice not been given in 2006, then Mrs G wouldve been entitled to take 
either a guaranteed income or transfer the pension at a higher CETV in 2018. Due to the 
error by L, she was able to do this. So, Mrs G still found herself in the same position she 
wouldve been in in 2018 even without taking into account the unsuitable advice provided by 
Thinc in 2006.
Based on this, I agree with Thinc that Mrs G has not suffered a financial loss here as a result 
of its advice. Thats because Mrs G had the opportunity to take the full annuity at age 63 in 
2018, which essentially nullified the impact of the advice she received to transfer in 2006, but 
decided (after taking advice from another financial adviser) that she would transfer the 
pension instead. My role here is to determine what wouldve most likely happened had 
Mrs G received suitable advice in 2006, and I cant ignore that in 2018 she decided not to 
take the annuity. So, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Thinc to carry out a 
calculation on the basis that Mrs G wouldve taken the annuity in 2018, when I know she in 
fact did not.
Ive thought about Mr Gs point that hes surprised by the lack of compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused. I addressed this within my first 
provisional decision, but for completeness, Ill set out my reasons again.
Whilst its clear that Mrs G has been inconvenienced by this, she wasnt aware of the 
incorrect advice for many years. I also now consider that Mrs G received what she was 
entitled to in 2018, despite the unsuitable advice from Thinc. And given that shes 
significantly benefitted from the initial CETV being paid as well, I dont think any further 
award is warranted in this regard.
Mr G has commented that he sees Thinc as having been absolved of any financial 
responsibility due to a fortuitous mistake by another business. I see his point here. However, 
our role is to put consumers back in the position they wouldve been in had it not been for a business mistake  in this case that is the unsuitable advice from Thinc. In this situation, the 
mistake by L has benefitted Mrs G. As explained above, she was still able to take the full 
benefits available to her under her original pension scheme in 2018. So, because of the 
mistake by L, Mrs G has not suffered a loss, and as such, I cant see any reason to make an 
award.
I again invited both parties to respond to my second provisional decision. Thinc accepted the 
findings, but Mr G did not. He said, in summary: 
he believed that the transfer from L following Thincs advice was only a partial 
transfer and there remained a second policy which L have incorrectly claimed is the 
same policy. 
He didnt think a final decision should be issued until a complaint about L had been 
resolved.
He asked that I caveat my decision along the lines that it can be reconsidered, or 
Thinc ordered to be paid redress if it transpires that the information provided by L is 
incorrect.
The complaint has now been passed to me to consider again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions that I came to in my second 
provisional decision.
Im aware that Mr G believes that Mrs G had two pensions with L. And that only one was 
transferred in 2006, whilst the second policy was transferred in 2018. However, Im not 
persuaded this is the case. 
L has confirmed to us that Mrs G only had one policy. Given that the deferred annuity was 
purchased by her employer at the time to replace a closed DB scheme, I see no reason why 
two policies wouldve needed to have been set up. Ive seen nothing else to suggest that 
there is a second policy and it was this policy that was transferred in 2018. Ultimately, I have 
to make my decision based on the evidence I currently have. And this leads me to conclude 
that Mrs G has been able to transfer the same deferred annuity twice.
Because of this, and for the reasons set out in my second provisional decision, and above, 
Im satisfied Mrs G hasnt suffered a financial loss. And, again, for reasons set out above, I 
dont think a payment for distress and inconvenience is warranted in this complaint.
My final decision
Whilst I accept the advice from Thinc Group Limited to Mrs G was unsuitable, I dont think 
shes suffered a financial loss. So, I dont uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Rob DeadmanOmbudsman