DRN-2452985
The complaint
Mr M complains that TFS Loans Limited (TFS) lent to him irresponsibly and without 
carrying out proper affordability checks. He would like all the fees and charges associated 
with the loan refunded.
What happened
In November 2016 TFS approved a guarantor loan of £7,500 for Mr M, which was scheduled 
to be repaid at approximately £279 per month over a term of 60 months. The loan was 
intended to consolidate existing debt. When assessing the application, TFS discussed Mr 
Ms income and expenditure with him and carried out a credit check before approving the 
lending.
Within a few months Mr M encountered difficulties making his repayments, but clearly 
worked collaboratively with TFS in order to try and manage his account. The current status 
of the loan is unconfirmed.
One of our investigators looked into this case and thought that TFS checks didnt go far 
enough. And that, if the checks had gone further, it would have seen that this lending wasnt 
sustainable for Mr M. So, he upheld the complaint.
TFS didnt accept that. It provided further comments which the investigator responded to, 
and set out further evidence hed received in the form of Mr Ms bank statements from the 
time. Giving slightly different rationale, he explained why he continued to believe the 
complaint should be upheld. TFS then didnt provide any further comments specific to this 
case, but asked for an Ombudsman to look at it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. TFS is aware of 
its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of this lending 
decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont repeat them 
here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that Mr M would 
be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in CONC 
5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, Mr M needed to be able to meet his financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay TFS for the loan to be considered affordable and sustainable.
Did TFS carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
TFS asked Mr M questions about his income and expenditure; used a tool to cross check 
his income disclosure; and carried out a credit check when considering his loan 
application. It carried out an income and expenditure assessment (I&E), and seems to 
have considered which of Mr Ms existing credit would be paid off. It assessed the loan on 
the basis that Mr Ms income was £1,929 per month; that his living expenses were £1,065 
per month; and that, once this loan had been put in place, hed need about £463 per month 
to service all his debts (£279 of that to TFS). Overall, that would have left him with around 
£400 disposable income per month.
So, its clear that TFS did gather information on Mr Ms circumstances. But I dont think I 
can conclude that it responded appropriately to what it did see.
The regulations do not prescribe the nature of the checks that lenders need to carry out  
or the sources of evidence that must be pursued. The key thing is that lenders carry out 
proportionate checks: by definition, that must mean that the checks for one customer could 
look significantly different from checks for another. Or that checks in relation to the same 
customer could vary greatly over the time, depending on the circumstances.
So the question for me is, in all the circumstances of this case, and based on what it knew, 
did TFS checks go far enough for this application to render them proportionate? The 
answer is no, for several reasons.
Firstly, the amount being borrowed was not insubstantial, and he was signing up to a 
considerable loan term. That meant that he needed to be able to sustain repayments for a 
reasonably long time. This in itself should be a consideration when determining the extent 
of checks necessary.
Secondly, there appears to have been a significant mismatch between Mr Ms disclosures 
about his existing debt; the amount needed to meet monthly repayments shown on the 
I&E, and what showed on the credit search TFS undertook. It would seem that Mr M told 
TFS that he had six unsecured loans that he wished to consolidate, including a large 
guarantor loan and three high cost short term loans. The value of that debt was indicated 
to be around £9,400. In the round, considering the amount of debt, and the structure of the 
existing lending, I dont consider it plausible that Mr M only required the £160 per month 
noted on the I&E to service those debts. Additionally, most of those loans disclosed by Mr 
M were not showing on the credit search as far as I can see, so I reject TFS assertion that 
his active credit was showing as up to date There is also no detail as to the 
repayments that were to be consolidated with this loan, and therefore the net effect of it on 
his monthly outgoings.
Finally, TFS was aware that Mr M had a problematic credit history, including a County 
Court Judgement (CCJ) and defaults. I acknowledge that the CCJ was relatively historic, 
as were two defaults, by the point of this lending, however, the credit search shows two 
accounts which had been defaulted in the 14 months before this application. It also 
showed that a fairly large number of searches had been performed in 2016, suggesting 
that Mr M was making frequent attempts to borrow. Whilst I am not suggesting any of this 
ought to have automatically disqualified Mr M from the lending for which he was applying, I 
am clear that it had a direct impact on the level of checks required by TFS in November 
2016.
Taking all of these circumstances together, I dont think TFS checks went far enough so 
as to be proportionate in this case. In summary, given what TFS already knew about him, it 
was clear that there were concerns around his recent financial management, and likely 
difficulties. It should also have been clear to TFS that the credit search it obtained was 
giving, at best, a very limited summary of Mr Ms financial position. This means that extra information would have been necessary to truly conclude that he could sustainably repay 
this loan over this term. 
I think it needed a much clearer picture of Mr Ms expenditure  including on debt servicing 
 before approving this lending. So TFS should have done more to verify Mr Ms full and 
actual financial situation.
What would TFS have found had it done further checks?
When considering this second question, our service has had the benefit of copies of Mr 
Ms bank statements from the time of the lending. However, there is absolutely no 
requirement on a lender to request bank statements: I accept that entirely. Lenders are 
permitted to source and rely on a range of evidence when assessing affordability, and so 
TFS could have opted to gather more information about Mr Ms circumstances in a range 
of ways. Bank statements is just one way, but in the absence of anything else provided as 
evidence of Mr Ms full circumstances at the time, Im happy to rely on them. 
Focusing on the three months in the lead up to this application, Mr Ms bank statements 
raise several significant concerns suggesting financial difficulty, including:
In one given month, repayments to four short term high cost credit providers 
totalling £1,775  that is, 92% of Mr Ms total income.
Payments to a debt management firm.
Fees in relation to unarranged overdraft usage and unpaid transactions.
Regular transfers to and from an account with Mr Ms surname and a different first 
initial, some referenced loan  therefore borrowing from family and friends was 
highly possible and should have been thought about.
Frequent and at times sizeable transfers to and from another account which could 
well be another account in Mr Ms name  but which in any event would need some 
scrutiny and exploration to fully understand his actual expenditure.
Overall, the evidence available to me strongly suggests that this borrowing was not 
sustainable for Mr M, and that there would have been a very high likelihood that hed need 
to borrow to meet repayments. It therefore follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr M, TFS must do the following:
A) TFS Loans must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the 
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr M as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. 
B) If this results in Mr M having made overpayments then it must refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the payments were 
made, to the date the complaint is settled. 
C) If there is still an outstanding balance following the actions set out in A, then TFS Loans 
should agree a suitable repayment plan with Mr M.
D) It must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to this
loan, once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to deduct tax from this interest. It shouldgive Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman