DRN-3407979
The complaint
Mr R complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) have unfairly handled 
claims made on a marine insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr R or RSA includes respective representatives or agents.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties and has been discussed in 
detail by our Investigator previously. So, Ill summarise events.
Mr R owns a boat that is insured by RSA. This complaint concerns three claims he 
has made under this policy. This happened across 2014 to 2015 and resulted in 
various stolen items and damage.
RSA requested Mr R obtain estimates for repairs. RSA sent an assessor to the site in 
2015 who commented there was a dispute between Mr R and the marina. The claims 
were closed in 2016 as it didnt receive anything from Mr R at that time.
Mr R contacted RSA in March 2017 to progress the claim. Further details of loss 
were provided to RSA and in turn, it validated these losses. Across the following 
months it settled several invoices for repairs, works or replacement items.
Around July 2018 RSA arranged a new damage report. RSA has said this was in an 
attempt to bring the matter to a close. It requested further quotes/invoices, and soon 
after Mr R raised concerns about difficulties in obtaining these, and requesting RSA 
provide support in doing so.
RSA declined part of the claim related to a generator. As our Investigator has 
outlined, this matter was subject to a previous complaint considered by this Service, 
so I wont repeat or revisit the same issue here.
Further items were raised by Mr R. RSA questioned why new items were being 
raised but settled all of these with the exception of a life raft and life jackets.
Mr R complained, saying RSA had taken too long to resolve the claim and handled it 
badly across its life. This included asking him to obtain and provide unreasonable 
information without support and asking accusatory questions. And failing to pay for 
specific items (including life jackets and a life raft). He said RSAs inaction had 
prevented him from using the boat, so it should pay him £33,000 in associated costs. 
RSA said the claims were mainly delayed due to the dispute between Mr R and the 
marina, related to unpaid fees which it says prevented access to the boat. RSA says 
it has settled all costs for the claim in line with the policy, but offered £100 in 
compensation for delays but declined any further costs or fees.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint in part. Ive summarised his view below.
oRSAs policy allowed it to request estimates from policyholders. So, it had 
acted fairly and within the policy terms by requesting quotes as it did. 
oThat Mr R hadnt provided information in places which prevented the claim 
from progressing. And when RSA had been given information, it had largely 
been quick to validate matters until 2018.
oHe said RSA shouldve supported Mr R when he explained he was struggling 
to obtain quotes. And in places, it couldve been more pro-active with Mr R. 
But he didnt think it was responsible for delays caused by Mr Rs dispute with 
the marina. So, he awarded £400 compensation for its handling. But he didnt 
believe RSA had delayed the claim to an extent that it should pay any fees, 
upkeep, or marina costs.
oBased on the limited information available, he felt RSAs questions were 
reasonable. And there was no evidence to suggest RSA had delayed the 
claim due to the wishes of, or pressure from the marina. But he did feel RSA 
had unfairly declined to replace a life raft and life jackets.
RSA agreed to increase its offer of compensation and to pay for the outstanding 
items. But Mr R disagreed, commenting on RSAs handling. Specifically, he raised he 
was unhappy with an email chain from 2016 that he said implied he may be 
connected to the theft. And he raised concerns about the generator. He also asked 
for RSA to revisit the prices it would settle at, as these costs were now out of date.
Our Investigator looked again, he felt the questioning from RSAs loss adjuster was 
reasonable and that he had explained why he felt the information was relevant. He 
reiterated the generator matter could not be considered again. And he said the 
payments had been made some years ago, so he wouldnt direct it to revisit this.
Mr R also provided two invoices that he said RSA had yet to settle amounting to 
around £700. These have been shared with RSA for its consideration.
So, the matter has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
RSAs policy allows it to request a policyholder to obtain estimates, as it has done 
here. So, on its face I think this is reasonable.
When Mr R explained he had difficulties in obtaining estimates, I believe RSA 
couldve been more helpful than it was, in light of its experience in these matters and 
potential contacts. And I think its likely this inaction led to some delay in this claim 
progressing.
Looking over the available history of the claim, it appears to me that many of the 
delays fell outside of RSAs hands. I say this as there are substantial periods where 
RSA had requested information and the information wasnt provided. And where 
information was forthcoming, particularly across 2017 and it seems most issues were 
resolved. 
Although I do recognise it was responsible for some delays, and was not as prompt 
as we would expect, as detailed by our Investigator previously and now accepted by 
RSA. Ive thought about these delays when awarding overall compensation below.
RSA has now accepted to cover additional items (life raft and life jackets) that it 
seemingly had previously declined due to a lack of information. Im satisfied it had 
declined these items unfairly in the circumstances, and Ive considered the impact of this below.
Mr R has complained about a specific email chain in which a loss adjuster asks him 
details about a key fob and a third party. I understand questions during an insurance 
claim can or may feel intrusive, this does not mean they are unnecessary. And in this 
instance, having read these emails carefully, Im satisfied all of the questions 
included were reasonable within the scope of the loss adjusters role in handling this 
claim. So, this isnt something Id make an award of compensation for.
Mr R has mentioned the possibility of collusion between RSA and the marina, 
suggesting RSA may have elongated the claim for the benefit of the marina. Ive 
been given no evidence to support this allegation.
Overall, its clear to me that these claims have taken much longer to resolve than any 
party wouldve hoped. While Im satisfied RSA has not progressed matters as 
promptly as it shouldve done in places, I do not believe its actions have led to this 
matter being ongoing for as long as it has. And instead, I think RSA attributing these 
delays largely to Mr Rs dispute with the marina seems like the most likely cause. 
As a result, I dont hold RSA responsible for the full period of time that Mr R has been 
unable to use his boat. And in turn, I dont think it would be fair nor reasonable to 
direct RSA to pay for fees and costs that Mr R has sought. But I do believe RSA 
needs to compensate Mr R for delays in its handling, and Im persuaded that £400 is 
a fair sum in the circumstances. 
Mr R has also mentioned costs he believes RSA owes him related to the generator. 
This matter does not fall within the scope of this decision so I will not comment on it 
any further. 
Mr R has provided two invoices dated 31 January 2019 and 14 November 2019 that 
he says have yet to be paid. Ive not received RSAs position on these but I expect it 
to consider them in line with its terms and conditions and either simply settle them, or 
provide a prompt response to Mr R as to its position. I expect it to do this within 28 
days of this decision.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint. I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to do the following:
RSA must pay Mr R £400 in compensation;
RSA must settle the costs of the life jackets and life raft if it has not done so already;
RSA must reconsider the costs within the remaining two invoices outlined above in 
line with the policy terms and conditions if not already paid. If it does not do so within 
28 days in line with my instruction, RSA must settle any remaining items in full.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman