DRN-2703783
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
What happened
Mrs H took out the PPI policy alongside a store card she applied for in September 2002.
The policy cost £1 per £100 of Mrs Hs outstanding monthly statement balance. And if she
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 15% of that
balance until the end date, unless the balance was repaid in full, or Mrs H returned to work.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the
complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision on 17 February 2021 and 
explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Below is an extract of what I 
said:
AXA had to make it clear to Mrs H that the policy was optional, and it had to get her consent
before applying PPI to her account. Mrs H says as far as shes aware, the PPI was added
without her knowledge or consent. AXA disagrees and its provided a copy of Mrs Hs
application form for me to consider.
Looking at the form, there is a section about Protecting your account, with a statement to
say yes to Account Cover  PPI. In brackets it says, Only sign this box if you require
Account Cover. I can see Mrs H signed in the box, indicating she wanted the PPI added to
her account. So, I think Mrs H was aware she had a choice about buying PPI and that she
chose to take it at the time.
Both parties agree that AXA didnt give Mrs H any advice. That means it didnt have to check
the policy was suitable for her. But it did need to give her enough information about the PPI,
so she could decide whether to take it or not. Its possible it didnt  so I have to consider
Mrs Hs circumstances at the time and think about whether there were any policy criteria that
might have meant Mrs H should not have been sold the policy, or any policy terms that might
have put her off taking it.
Mrs H says she had asthma at the time of sale. And as she would not have been to claim for
this condition, our adjudicator upheld the complaint. They thought the policy terms on pre-
existing medical conditions would have put Mrs H off taking the policy if AXA had given her
better information about it. AXA didnt agree. In summary, it said asthma is usually a
manageable condition and theres nothing to suggest Mrs Hs asthma affected her lifestyle
significantly enough to have put her off taking the policy.
Ive thought carefully about what both parties have said given all pre-existing medical
conditions are excluded by this policy. Mrs H described her asthma as being mild and said
that it was controlled with inhalers  she hasnt said anything to suggest it led her to take
time off work, or that it had any other impact on her day-to-day life. So, based on how Mrs H
has described her asthma, I dont think better information about the pre-existing medical
condition terms of the policy would have put her off taking it. I also think the policy could
have been useful to her if she developed any other conditions that she might have needed to
use the policy for.
As I dont think the complaint should be upheld because of Mrs Hs pre-existing medical
condition, Ive thought about whether Mrs H was affected by anything else.
Mrs H initially told us she was an unemployed student at the time of taking the policy. So,
Ive looked into this further as Mrs H had to be working to meet the eligibility criteria of the
policy. Working is defined as being in paid employment, in the United Kingdom and for at
least 16 hours per week.
AXA gave us information which says Mrs H told them she was working at the time of sale.
From this, it appears as though Mrs H was employed by the same employer between 2000
and 2010. Because the information Mrs H provided to us and to AXA differs, we asked her to
clarify her circumstances when the policy was sold  in September 2002. Mrs H replied but
said she really cant remember if she was studying or not and if she was, it may have been
more of a vocational course while working.
Due to the length of time thats passed since the sale took place, its not surprising Mrs H
cant remember all of the details. But unfortunately, the application form she completed at
the time doesnt say anything about her employment. So, I only have her testimony to decide
whether I think she was eligible for the policy or not. And considering everything Mrs H has
said to us and to AXA, I havent seen enough to persuade me she would not have been
eligible for the policy.
Based on everything Mrs H has said, it seems more likely to me that she was employed at
the time of sale. And while she may have continued her studies, I think she was more likely
than not working more than 16 hours per week. So, I think Mrs H was likely eligible for the
policy and I havent seen anything else that would have affected her ability to have the policy
or to make a claim on it. Overall, it looks like the policy could have been useful to her, so I
dont think better information would have stopped her buying it.
I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mrs H.
Its unclear whether Mrs H would have received any sick pay from her employer. From what
shes said to AXA, she may only have received statutory sick pay. So, I dont think the likely
sick pay she would have been entitled to at the time of sale would have meant the policy
wasnt useful to her. The policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs H
received and potentially for longer. So, I think the PPI could have been useful to Mrs H if she
fell on hard times.
Mrs H says she had some savings and that her family would have helped her. So, Ive
thought about whether this makes a difference. But the PPI would have enabled Mrs H to
use her savings for any other financial commitments she may have had at what could be a
difficult time. And while her family may have offered to help, circumstances could change
which means their help could not always be relied on. So, I still think the policy could have
been useful to her. It follows, I dont think Mrs Hs PPI was mis-sold.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision, so Ive not received any new 
evidence or information to consider. Because of this, Ive reached the same conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
Mrs Hs application form shows that she chose to take PPI at the time of sale. While its 
possible AXA could have given Mrs H better information about the policy, I dont think this 
would have made a difference to her decision to take it. I say this because, I think Mrs H 
could have found the policy useful, considering her circumstances at the time. So, I dont 
think Mrs Hs PPI policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman