DRN-2278478
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Aviva Insurance Limited turned down a cancellation claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K have travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account.
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs K booked a two-week trip to Japan. They were due to travel on 
14 March 2020.
On 27 February 2020, Mrs K called up Aviva to ask about whether shed be covered if she 
cancelled the trip. She explained that Mr Ks employer had banned employees from 
travelling to Japan as a result of Covid-19. The call handler told Mrs K that the policy didnt 
cover her situation. He explained shed only be covered if the Foreign and Commonwealth 
Office (FCO) advised against travelling to Japan. As the FCO hadnt given this guidance, he 
told Mrs K her claim wouldnt be covered at this point. 
Mr and Mrs K cancelled the different parts of their holiday on 3 and 4 March 2020. 
Ultimately, they were able to recover all but £700 of their cancellation costs from their travel 
providers. So they made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the remaining £700. 
They noted the policy also covered cancellation due to epidemic or pandemic influenza. And 
so they felt Aviva should treat Covid-19 as an epidemic or pandemic influenza.
Aviva turned down the claim. It said the FCO hadnt advised against all but essential travel 
abroad until 17 March 2020. Mr and Mrs K had cancelled their trip before the advice had 
changed. It also felt the main reason the trip had been cancelled was because of the 
direction Mr K had been given by his employer. This simply wasnt covered by the policy 
terms. Aviva also said it didnt consider Covid-19 to be an influenza and so the claim 
wouldnt be covered by this insured reason either.
Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with Avivas decision and they complained. Mrs K said one of 
Avivas call handers had told her that if the FCO guidance changed within 31 days of a 
policyholders departure, itd consider paying claims. The FCO had changed its guidance to 
advise against all but essential travel on 17 March 2020  three days after Mr and Mrs K had 
been due to go on their trip.  Aviva explained though that this cover wouldnt apply in Mr and 
Mrs Ks situation as theyd already cancelled their holiday before the FCO guidance 
changed. 
As they remained unhappy with Avivas decision, Mr and Mrs K asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator thought Aviva had treated Mr and Mrs K fairly. She didnt think that the 
Japanese government had placed any restrictions on travellers arriving from the UK at the 
time Mr and Mrs K had cancelled their trip. And the FCO hadnt advised against travelling 
abroad at this point. She also didnt think it was unreasonable for Aviva not to treat Covid-19 
as influenza. 
The investigator also felt that Avivas call handlers had consistently told Mrs K that he 
circumstances of the claim wouldnt be covered. While Mrs K had been told to keep checking 
the FCO guidance during one call, to see if a claim could be considered down the line, the 
investigator noted the trip had already been cancelled. So she didnt think Mr and Mrs K had 
lost out as a result of anything the call handlers had said.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed. They maintained that it was unfair for Aviva not to treat Covid-19 as 
an epidemic or a pandemic. The Japanese government had treated Covid-19 as an 
epidemic locally at the time the trip had been cancelled, as itd closed schools, tourist 
attractions and festivals at this point. Covid-19 starts as a respiratory illness, just as flu does, 
is transmitted like flu and so should be treated like flu. They also felt the policy wording was 
completely unreasonable  Aviva should cover cancellation to any destination where a 
policyholders accommodation is affected by an epidemic or pandemic.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Aviva to turn down Mr and Mrs Ks claim. Ill explain 
why.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs K feel strongly that their claim should be covered. I dont doubt how 
stressful and upsetting it mustve been for them when they learned theyd need to cancel 
their holiday. And I appreciate Mrs K was able to recover many of their losses from the travel 
providers, which caused her some inconvenience. I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ks 
position. But in making my decision, I need to think about whether Aviva assessed the claim 
in line with its policy terms and if it did so fairly.
The relevant regulators rules say insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And they 
mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered the terms of Mr and Mrs 
Ks policy, the circumstances and the information they were given in deciding whether Aviva 
acted fairly.
Its important I explain that I have no power to tell an insurer what risks it should insure and 
what cover it should include in an insurance policy. Its down to an insurer to decide what 
risks it does and doesnt want to cover and how much to charge for the insurance it provides. 
This means I cant tell Aviva what events it should include in the cancellation section of its 
policy. I also have no power to tell Aviva how it should write its policy wordings  I can 
generally only look at whether the policy terms are clear, unambiguous and have been 
applied fairly. I understand Mr and Mrs K have written separately to the industry regulator 
about the content of the policy terms.
Was it fair for Aviva to turn down the claim?
Ive looked carefully at the cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Ks policy. This says:
Cancelling or coming home early
If you unavoidably have to cancel your trip or come home early, we will pay for
the following:Non recoverable costs that each insured person has paid, or legally has to pay for
their own unused personal travel and/or accommodation. This also includes the
cost of pre-paid excursions and green fees;
If one of the following occurs:
-Foreign and Commonwealth Office advisory notice is in place advising against all 
travel or all but essential travel to your destination or, the FCO are advising British 
citizens to leave the area in which you are staying.
-Your accommodation is directly affected by a food poisoning outbreak, or the area in 
which you are staying is affected by pandemic or epidemic influenza.
Mr and Mrs K claimed for the remaining, non-recoverable cancellation costs after theyd 
recovered the majority of their costs from their travel providers. So Ive looked carefully at 
the timeline of events to consider whether Mr and Mrs Ks costs should be covered.
I can see that the FCO didnt advise against all but essential travel abroad until 17 March 
2020, which is around 14 days after theyd already cancelled their trip. And the FCO didnt 
give any travel advice specific to Japan at any point prior to the 17 March 2020. Ive also 
noted that while the Japanese government had placed restrictions on some international 
travellers, there were no restrictions on visitors to Japan from the UK. The city Mr and Mrs K 
were travelling to also doesnt seem to have been placed into a state of emergency until 6 
April 2020  around three weeks after Mr and Mrs K were due to travel.
So Im satisfied that at the point Mr and Mrs K cancelled their trip, the FCO hadnt advised 
against travel to Japan and there were no restrictions against UK travellers visiting Japan.
Mr and Mrs K feel strongly that Aviva should treat Covid-19 as if its influenza. Ive thought 
about this. Covid-19 is a highly infectious respiratory illness. The World Health Organisation 
hasnt categorised it as a type of influenza. Aviva decided not to treat Covid-19 as a flu 
epidemic or pandemic. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to conclude that Mr and 
Mrs Ks claim wasnt covered by this part of the policy.
Taking all of the above into account, while I can understand why Mr and Mrs K were 
concerned about the risk of Covid-19 and why they cancelled their trip, it simply wasnt 
covered by the policy terms. And I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to direct Aviva 
to cover the claim in the circumstances of this case for the reasons Ive outlined above. So I 
think it was fair for Aviva to turn down their claim.
Did Aviva provide poor customer service?
Mr and Mrs K feel that Aviva led them to believe their claim would be covered if the FCO 
guidance changed to advise against all but essential travel within 31 days of their departure. 
Ive listened to calls between Mrs K and Aviva. Mrs K was told to keep an eye on the FCO 
guidance to see if it changed, so I can understand why she mightve thought her claim would 
be paid once the FCO guidance changed. And I can appreciate why it was disappointing 
when she learned this wasnt the case because shed already cancelled the trip.
But having listened to the first call Mrs K had with Aviva, before the trip was cancelled, she 
was told her circumstances wouldnt be covered by the policy terms. By the time Mrs K 
called back, shed already cancelled the trip. So although it wouldve been helpful if the call 
handler hadnt mentioned potential FCO guidance changes, I dont think this call caused her 
to take any additional action which caused her to lose out. And the call handler did correctly 
tell her that based on the situation at that point, her claim wouldnt be covered.So overall, I havent seen enough to persuade me that Aviva handled Mr and Mrs Ks claim 
unfairly or that it caused any unnecessary delays. This means I dont think it needs to pay 
them any compensation
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman