DRN-3788980
The complaint
Mr S and Mr S complain that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has treated them unfairly by not 
retaining a telephone call in connection to a legal expenses insurance (LEI) claim.  
Mr S is leading on this complaint, so Ive referred to him throughout my decision on the part 
of both complainants where necessary. 
What happened
Mr S took out an LEI policy alongside his home insurance - its underwritten by UKI.
In 2018, Mr S contacted UKI in relation to an LEI claim. He was transferred to a legal 
adviser  an agent of UKI  for advice.  
Mr S said the legal advice was incorrect and so, brought a complaint to this Service. 
He said his ability to use his LEI cover had been compromised by the advice given by 
UKIs agent.
An Investigator considered under a separate complaint reference that complaint had 
been made too late to this Service and so, didnt fall within our jurisdiction. This 
matter was closed.
Mr S subsequently complained again to UKI. He said that the call in which he alleges 
the incorrect legal advice was given hasnt been retained by UKI when he asked for 
it, and he thinks thats unfair.
UKI said it could see the call occurred but that it only keeps call recordings for three 
years, and so it had been deleted given the time that had passed. It was satisfied it 
had acted in accordance with its data protection policy and so, didnt uphold Mr S 
complaint. 
Unhappy, Mr S brought a complaint to this Service about the call not being retained. 
An Investigator considered it and didnt uphold the complaint.
Because Mr S disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. But before I do, I want to make it explicitly 
clear that I have not - as part of this complaint - considered the content or quality of the legal 
advice Mr S received during the call in question. An Investigator has already made a finding 
on that complaint - namely, that it was outside of our jurisdiction - and that complaint is 
closed. 
This complaint is solely about whether UKI should have retained a call recording of the 
aforementioned call. 
UKI has the autonomy to decide how long it retains information for  its not my role 
to comment on how it determined three years as being the appropriate retention 
period for telephone calls. UKI has explained in its final response letter dated August 
2022 that as the call occurred in 2018, it no longer has it. 
Ive seen that UKI sought confirmation from its internal data team that it had complied 
with its retention policy accordingly and it also contacted the legal adviser firm (UKIs 
agent) to see if it had a copy of the call  but it doesnt. And Im satisfied UKIs steps 
here were reasonable. 
Whilst I understand Mr S frustration with the call not being available, Im not 
persuaded UKI had been unreasonable in not retaining it for longer than it was 
required to in accordance with its data retention policy. 
Ultimately, UKI has complied with its data protection policy, and Ive not been given 
any evidence that persuades me this was unfair or unreasonable in these 
circumstances. So, Im satisfied UKI acted fairly. 
If Mr S is unhappy with the quality of the legal advice he received, hed need to make 
a complaint to the Legal Ombudsman. 
Mr S may also be able to contact the Information Commissioners Office if he has 
concerns about UKIs retention policy - if he hasnt already done so  but I will leave 
this to him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman