DRN-4163156
The complaint
Mr O complains because Vitality Health Limited removed travel insurance benefits provided 
in connection with a private medical insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr O is insured under a group private medical insurance policy, arranged between his 
employer and Vitality. Mr Os benefits originally included travel insurance. 
In January 2023, Mr O notified Vitality that he needed to make a travel insurance claim. 
Vitality said Mr O no longer had travel insurance benefits. Mr O complained and Vitality said 
it hadnt made an error in removing his travel insurance benefits. However, Vitality agreed to 
pay Mr Os claim in what it described as a commercial business decision. 
As Mr O remained unhappy, he brought the matter to the attention of our service. Our 
investigator didnt think Vitality had made any mistake. Mr O didnt agree with our 
investigators opinion so the complaint has been referred to me as the final stage in our 
process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr O feels strongly about what happened but I dont think Vitality has done 
anything wrong. Ill explain why:
Ive seen evidence that Vitality was instructed by the broker who arranges the policy 
to amend Mr Os benefits mid-term;
While the broker didnt specifically request for Mr Os travel insurance benefits to be 
removed, he asked for Mr O to be moved to a different category of cover, which had 
this effect;
Vitality acted on the brokers instructions, which it was entitled to do;
Vitality had no obligation to communicate the changes to Mr O. I appreciate Mr O 
doesnt think this is good or acceptable practice for an insurer but this is how group 
insurance policies like this work. Vitality has no direct contractual relationship with Mr 
O and it is Mr Os employer who is the policyholder. 
Even if I thought Vitality had made an error, it agreed to pay Mr Os travel insurance 
claim regardless, which I dont think it necessarily needed to do. 
Overall, this means I dont think Vitality made any error or acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
the circumstances, so I wont be directing it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman