DRN-2115391
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs P say that Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1988 Mr J and Mrs P took out a mortgage with B&B in their joint names. At the same 
time they took out a PPI policy. This wouldve paid a benefit if Mr J was off work because 
of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think this case should be upheld. Mr J and Mrs P were unhappy with 
this view and asked that the case be referred to an ombudsman.
In August 2020 I issued my provisional findings on this complaint and invited both parties to 
comment and send me any additional evidence they wanted me to think about. 
My provisional findings were that I was intending to uphold this complaint. I didnt think Mr J 
and Mrs P were given a fair choice about whether to buy the PPI. In my provisional decision 
I said:
This sale took place many years ago in 1988. But I have a lot of the paperwork which
was completed at the time of the sale. It looks like the mortgage application was 
completed in a branch of B&B. I dont think B&B advised Mr J and Mrs P to take out the 
policy. So although it didnt need to make sure the PPI was right for Mr J and Mrs P it still 
had to make sure it gave clear enough information so they could decide for themselves 
whether or not to take out the policy.
B&B should have made it clear that Mr J and Mrs P had a choice about buying the PPI.
And looking carefully at the forms completed at the time I dont think the choice about 
taking the PPI or declining it was made clear to Mr J and Mrs P.
The mortgage application form has a section headed with the words, Select Payment 
Protection Insurance. At the end of this section the option to decline the cover by crossing 
a
box is given. But by the time they reached this part of the form and read it, Mr J and Mrs 
P wouldve already completed the form with the level of benefit they required.
From the way the form is set out, I dont think it wouldve been clear that they didnt need 
to take out the PPI.
I note that throughout the rest of the mortgage application form, wherever a question is 
asked that requires a Yes or No response there is a box that prompts the applicant to 
handwrite either Yes or No. For instance the home insurance section is set out in the 
following way:
Do you wish to take advantage of the societys very competitive Select Buildings 
and Contents Insurance Policy? Write Yes or No.
And this style is used throughout the application form.
But the section about PPI looks different from the other sections. The first line of the 
section states: Select Payment protection Insurance. It then goes on to say, Please tick 
the box to indicate the type of cover required. There then followed two boxes for accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover or accident and sickness only.
In my view the way the PPI section was set out on the mortgage application posed a real 
risk that a consumer could be led to think they needed to select one or other level of cover 
with no option to decline.
And in a later section there is a statement to say: The society will arrange for the property 
and payment protection insurance to be effected unless instructed otherwise. This 
wouldve meant that Mr J and Mrs P wouldve got the insurance if they didnt opt out of the 
policy, which I dont think is fair.
In summary, the PPI was automatically added unless Mr J and Mrs P crossed the box if 
they didnt want to take it out. But this box was placed at the end of the section and came 
after Mr J and Mrs P were prompted to choose the amount of the cover they wanted. They 
wouldve had to deselect something theyd thought they needed to select.
So I dont think B&B gave them a clear option about whether or not to take out the policy 
in 1988. And I think Mr J and Mrs P lost out because of something B&B did wrong.
I also set out the steps B&B needed to take to put things right.
Mr J and Mrs P have told us they accept my provisional findings.
B&B disagreed with my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. B&B has said that as this was not an advised sale it was up to Mr J and Mrs P to read 
through the mortgage application. But while this may be the case, in my view it was up to 
B&B to clearly present the PPI as being optional. And for the reasons I set out in my 
provisional findings I dont think the application form did that.
B&B have said that it doesnt matter where the opt out box was placed in the PPI section of 
the form as long as it offered this option.
I disagree, firstly I think it is unfortunate the PPI policy itself was named Select Payment 
Protection Insurance, as there is a danger this could be interpreted as an instruction rather 
than the name of the product. Particularly as the first question in the section asks the 
consumer to select the level of cover they require without being given the option to decline at 
that stage. In my view the application form set out the PPI in a way that it presumed some 
level of cover would be chosen.
In addition the box Mr J and Mrs P needed to tick to decline the cover was placed at the very 
bottom of the section and in my view could easily be missed.
Finally the application form is an example of an opt-out sale. In other words if the consumer 
didnt complete the PPI section then a policy would automatically be set up. In my view this 
is inherently unfair.
Taking all this into account I dont think Mr J and Mrs P were likely given a fair choice over 
buying the PPI so I uphold this complaint. Ive next thought about what B&B needs to do to 
put things right.  
Putting things right
B&B should put Mr J and Mrs P in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt already, and B&B should:
Pay Mr J and Mrs P the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. 
The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, B&B can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires B&B to take off tax from this interest. B&B must give   
Mr J and Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Although the policy covered Mr J only the mortgage was So B&B should
pay 50% of the compensation to Mr J and 50% to Mrs P.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Bradford & Bingley Plc to pay Mr J and Mrs P 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman