DRN-1748708
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about delays in processing his finance application with Carfinance247 
Limited (CF247) which resulted in a new application being required. The new quote was for 
a higher amount and Mr G wants his initial quote honoured.   
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mr G made his initial application for finance on 23 March 2019 through CF247 which 
were acting as a broker. Discussions then took place regarding why Mr G wanted the 
finance and the options he was considering. At this time, a lender agreed in principle 
to provide Mr G with finance. For the application to be completed additional 
documentation was required and CF247 told Mr G what was required. I find this 
reasonable. 
One requirement was a settlement letter. I can see that Mr G was provided with a 
settlement quote dated 2 April. However, the contact notes provided by CF247 say 
that on 3 April Mr G said he was going to chase for another settlement letter as the 
one he had didnt have the correct figures. Further evidence about a deposit payment 
was then requested. I find that CF247 acted in a way we would expect by requesting 
the required information from Mr G.
On 5 April Mr G emailed to confirm a deposit payment and it was noted that a new 
settlement letter would be required. CF247 chased Mr G and on 14 April he said that 
a settlement letter would be provided. Again, CF247 chased Mr G for the outstanding 
information and on 27 April he said he was still waiting for this. I find that CF247 did 
what was required of it to try to gather the information needed for the finance 
application.
The settlement letter was provided on 2 May but as this was more than 30 days after 
the initial application the initial quote had expired. The lender provided a new quote 
but unfortunately this involved higher costs for Mr G. CF247 asked if the previous 
rates could be provided but this wasnt agreed. 
CF247 acted as the broker in this case and it told Mr G the information he needed to 
provide for his application to progress. It followed up on the outstanding information 
and I do not find, based on the evidence I have seen, that it was the cause of any 
unnecessary delays. 
CF247 has said that it didnt provide Mr G with the expiry date for the application and 
has offered to pay him £50 as a gesture of goodwill. I have considered this, and I do 
not find that this issue had a material impact on how Mr Gs application was 
progressed, and I cannot say that had this been provided then the information would 
have been provided within the required timeframe. Therefore, I find that the £50 
offered by CF247 is reasonable in recognition of this issue.
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint regarding the time taken to process 
Mr Gs application and I find the offer of £50 for not providing the expiry date is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Carfinance247 Limited should, as it has offered, pay Mr G £50 for 
not providing him with the expiry date information.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman