DRN-4070485
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their claim for storm 
damage to their home, under their home buildings insurance policy.  
For ease I will refer to Mr A throughout my decision. 
What happened
In February 2022 the upper section of a gable wall at the rear of Mr As house was damaged 
during a storm. He contacted UKI and it arranged for a surveyor to inspect the damage. Mr A 
says the surveyor indicated the claim wouldnt be covered. But when speaking with a UKI 
agent he was given the impression his claim would be covered. 
Mr A says he was told to provide quotes from local trades to speed up the process. After 
many calls he was asked to contact UKIs surveyor directly. He was told the claim had been 
closed in February 2022 as the damage was caused by slow deterioration. Mr A says this 
isnt what the surveyor initially advised. He says UKI then told him it was declining his claim 
but offered £100 for claim handling delays and for the upset this caused him. 
Mr A says he arranged for a specialist surveyor to ensure his house was safe to inhabit. He 
says the surveyor disagreed with UKIs surveyor. He advised gable wall collapses were 
commonplace and often caused by high winds. Mr A thought UKI had treated him unfairly 
and so referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says UKI had shown that the underlying 
cause of the damage was gradual deterioration. This isnt covered by Mr As policy terms as 
an insured cause. Our investigator says UKI acted fairly when declining his claim, but it was 
reasonable to pay Mr A £100 compensation for the issues highlighted with its communication 
and claim handling.   
Mr A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr As complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether a claim for 
damage relates to a storm. These are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no then an insurer can generally,
reasonably decline a claim.
Ive looked at weather data from around the time the damage was reported to have 
occurred. This shows wind speeds of up to 70mph were experienced close to Mr As 
property. Ive read his policy terms to see what it says about storm conditions. I cant see 
that it specifically defines what a storm is. But wind speeds of this magnitude are what wed 
consider to be storm force. Theres no dispute from UKI on this point so Im satisfied the 
answer to question one is yes. 
Collapsed walls are something that is typical of damage resulting from a storm. So, Im 
satisfied the answer to question two is also yes. 
The final point I must be satisfied with is that the storm conditions were the main cause of 
the damage. Ive read the surveyors report UKI obtained to understand what was found. The 
report says: 
top section of gable wall has blown off, the surveyor feels recent works have been carried 
out to the wall. The mortar is very sandy and surveyor unable to see any wall tiles [sic]. 
Claim declined
Ive carefully examined the photos the surveyor included in his report. This shows the 
remaining wall, and the blockwork behind the section of outer brick wall that has fallen away. 
Photos were also taken of the bricks and mortar where they lay on the ground beneath the 
collapsed area of wall. The top course of brick, still in place beneath the collapsed section, 
has a layer of sandy looking crumbly mortar still in situ. The debris on the ground also 
supports this description of the mortar. 
My understand from later correspondence is the surveyor referred to a lack of wall ties not 
tiles. This was a clerical error in the report. The surveyors intention was to highlight no 
evidence of ties between the outer brick wall that collapsed and the inner block wall. 
I asked Mr A to provide a copy of the specialist surveyors report that he obtained and any 
quotes he received from contractors to carry out repairs. He has provided a report he 
received from a wall-tie and masonry reinforcement specialist. This also includes a quote to 
carry out some repairs to the damaged wall. The report says:
Conclusions
It is apparent from our site investigations that the sample ties viewed serving the rear gable 
elevation, meet with grading reference numbers 2-3 within Building Research Establishment 
Digest 401. As such, we conclude that the existing Wall Ties are not in need of replacement 
at this time but would require re-inspection within a 10-15 year period.
As the mortar is so soft we feel that original ties are slipping in the joints, the wall ties rely on 
the mortar strength to be able to restraint the wall. There is also a lack of ties around the 
gable and openings; therefore we recommend some remedial ties are installed.
I think its clear from the contractors report that although wall ties were in place, the soft 
mortar was causing them to slip. The contractor also thought additional ties should be 
installed in the gable wall. Ive read the quotes Mr A obtained from several builders. These describe the work 
necessary to reinstate the damaged wall. Mr A has commented on discussions he says hes 
had with insurance underwriters, a loss adjustor and a senior insurance executive. He says 
their view is that the proximate cause of the damage was the strong winds. He describes an 
example of a car hitting a garden wall. In this example the cause of the collapsed wall is the 
collision with the car, regardless of the state of the wall. Mr A concludes his comments to say 
the surveying firm UKI used have a poor reputation in the industry.
Ive thought carefully about the reports and information provided by UKI and Mr A. I think its 
clear from this that the mortar in the collapsed wall was soft, crumbly, and deteriorated. A 
well-maintained wall in good condition should be able to withstand the impact of storm force 
winds. I think what UKIs surveyor, and the report from Mr As wall tie specialist have shown 
is that there was a pre-existing issue with the condition of the wall. This has been highlighted 
by the storm conditions. But the storm conditions werent the underlying cause of the 
collapse. 
Ive read Mr As policy terms to understand what exclusions apply. The terms say:
This policy doesnt cover
Just like most insurers we dont cover:
Wear and tear - Any damage caused gradually - Faulty workmanship faulty design or the 
use of faulty materials.
The policy terms exclude wear and tear and issues that occur gradually. In addition, faulty 
workmanship is excluded, which UKIs surveyor has indicated through the absence of wall 
ties. I acknowledge Mr As comments that wall ties were in place. But it is also apparent that 
his specialist reported slippage of the ties due to the crumbling mortar. 
I can see that Mr A asks for an independent surveyor to be instructed to provide a further 
report. However, UKI has shown by relying on its surveyors expert report that its exclusion 
applies. Having done so its for Mr A to demonstrate that the exclusion shouldnt apply. I note 
his comments that no work had been undertaken on the damaged wall by him or the 
previous owners. He says this is at odds with what UKIs surveyor reported. I acknowledge 
what he says. But Im not persuaded this shows the surveyor is wrong about the underlying 
cause of the damage being the defective mortar. 
Although Im sorry Mr and Mrs As home has been damaged, I dont think UKI acted unfairly 
when relying on its policy terms to decline their claim.
Ive thought about whether there is cover provided under any other section of Mr As policy 
with respect to the damaged patio he refers to. He has accidental damage cover in place. 
But the policy terms say this must relate to something that happens suddenly. The same 
exclusion applies that this cant be the result of gradual damage or wear and tear. So, I dont 
think cover is provided here either. 
Mr A was told by UKIs agent that his claim would be covered. It must have come as a shock 
when he was later told the claim had been declined. Ive read the claim notes to see what 
happened here. I can see from the records that a note was made saying the claim was 
repudiated in mid-March 2022. The note also says Mr A had been asked for quotes  and 
the message diary on was included. 
Mr A provided the quotes toward the end of April 2022. The records show this information 
was sent to UKIs surveyor to review. Mr A chased a response in late May. UKI advised him 
to contact its surveyor directly. He was then told the claim was declined back in February. UKI subsequently dealt with Mr As complaint about the decline decision. 
I can see UKI listened to a call when its agent had discussed the claim with Mr A and told 
him it would likely be accepted. It doesnt dispute this was said and says this was before the 
claim information was fully considered. In these circumstances, given the misleading 
information, and the delay in Mr A receiving confirmation of the decline decision, I think UKI 
should pay him compensation for the distress caused. However, I think its offer of £100 is 
fair. So, I cant reasonably ask it to pay more. 
In summary, Im sorry Mr and Mrs As home was damaged. But I dont think UKI treated 
them unfairly when relying on its policy terms and declining their claim. It didnt act fairly in 
the standard of communication and delays that occurred in providing confirmation of the 
decline decision. But its offer of £100 is reasonable to acknowledge this.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman