DRN-4072626
The complaint
Mr H and Mr M have complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt remove a 
concessionary discounted staff interest rate on the mortgage after Mr H left his employment 
with the banks parent group. As a result, the mortgage remained on a lower rate of interest 
for an extra six-month period.
Mr H, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, says that as a result of Halifaxs error he 
and Mr M lost out on being able to secure a lower interest rate on their mortgage. He also 
says that Halifax failed to provide sufficient notice that the concessionary rate was being 
removed. To settle the complaint, they would like Halifax to put the mortgage on the lowest 
rate available on 1 July 2023 and to pay significant compensation for the banks error.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. Our decisions are published, so its important I 
dont include any information that might lead to Mr H and Mr M being identified. In addition, 
Halifax has acknowledged it made an error, so I dont need to analyse the events in detail in 
order to decide this; all I need to determine is what the bank needs to do to put things right. 
So for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt 
think it was material to the outcome of the complaint.
Briefly, after being made redundant from his employment in the Lloyds Banking Group in 
June 2021, Mr H was entitled to retain his concessionary staff mortgage interest rate for a 
further 12-month period  until June 2022. This applied to the main account. In May 2022 
Mr H asked when the rate was due to expire, but staff werent able to give him a clear 
answer.
In error, the rate wasnt removed in June 2022. Mr H noticed in August 2022 that the 
concessionary rate hadnt been removed and asked again when it was due to expire. Mr H 
said Halifax did not call him back about this. 
The error came to light in October 2022, and a letter was issued giving 28 days notice of 
removal of the rate. Mr H and Mr M say they didnt receive this letter. Mr H said it wasnt until 
late November 2022 that he and Mr M were first told that the rate was being removed with 
effect from 1 December 2022.
Halifax noted that when Mr H had asked about the expiry date of his concessionary interest 
rate in May 2022, he hadnt been given a clear answer. Halifax paid compensation of £250 
for this. As a gesture of goodwill, Halifax also offered Mr H and Mr M an additional £346.56, 
being the difference in the concessionary rate and the banks standard variable rate (SVR) 
for December 2022. Halifax noted that Mr H had accepted that he knew the concessionary 
rate was only in place for 12 months. The bank said that he and Mr M could have arranged a 
new interest rate, but it was their choice not to do so.
The mortgage also had a sub-account which was on a fixed rate of interest. In error the fixed 
rate product on the sub-account was removed in December 2022. However, because Mr H 
and Mr M had decided to move their mortgage to a new lender, Halifax didnt reinstate this, 
because otherwise an early repayment charge (ERC) would have applied. It was therefore 
more beneficial not to reinstate the fixed-rate product.
Mr H and Mr M werent happy with the compensation offered and complained to this service. 
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the bank needed to do anything 
more. He was satisfied that Mr H knew his interest rate concession would remain in place for 
12 months, because Mr H had contacted Halifax to check this about this before it expired. 
Due to the banks error in not removing the rate, the mortgage was on a lower interest rate 
than it should have been for six months. Overall, the investigator didnt think thered been 
any detriment to Mr H and Mr M and that the compensation offered was fair and reasonable.
Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mr H said that the banks failure to 
contact him has cost him thousands in interest payment hikes. Mr H also criticised the 
banks systems for communicating with customers. Mr H said he and Mr M will suffer the 
interest hikes and backlash of this for years to come. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the 
same reasons.
Its clear from what he told us that Mr H knew his concessionary interest rate was in place for 
12 months from June 2021. Once June 2022 had passed, Im satisfied that Mr H knew, or 
ought reasonably to have known, that the continued application of that rate to the mortgage 
was probably a mistake by the bank. 
I note that bank staff werent able to answer Mr Hs query about when the rate expired when 
he asked about it in May 2022, or when he spotted the banks mistake in August 2022 and 
queried it again. I think that this is most likely because the rate was HR-linked to Mr Hs 
status as a former employee, and so the information wasnt accessible to front-level staff.
Mr H has acknowledged that, because the bank hadnt contacted him about expiry of the 
staff rate (notwithstanding he was aware it was only for 12 months from June 2021) he and 
Mr M didnt look for another rate. I appreciate that by the time the bank realised it had made 
an error interest rates had increased. The consequence of the banks error was that for six 
months Mr H and Mr M had the benefit of a concessionary interest rate to which they were 
not entitled. 
No ERC applied to the concessionary rate, so Mr H and Mr M could have arranged a new 
interest rate product at any time. Certainly after June 2022 I think it would have been 
reasonable for Mr H and Mr M to have looked for a new interest rate product, given that I am 
satisfied that Mr H was aware that his interest rate product was only in place for 12 months 
from June 2021. Ive noted Mr Hs criticism of the bank sending a letter rather than a secure message. I cant 
tell Halifax how to run its business; its up to the bank to decide the best way to communicate 
with customers. 
I dont know why Mr H and Mr M didnt receive the letter dated 22 October 2022 informing 
them that the mortgage would revert to the banks SVR from 1 December 2022. It was 
correctly addressed to them at the secured property, and wasnt returned to the bank as 
undelivered. Non-delivery of mail is something Mr H and Mr M will need to take up with 
Royal Mail, as Im not persuaded the bank is at fault here.
I can understand why Mr H and Mr M were upset, as they say they first knew the 
concessionary rate was being withdrawn at the end of November 2022. But I think the 
redress Halifax offered  covering the difference in payment between SVR and the 
concessionary rate for December 2022  is fair, and is more than the bank was required to 
do.
Putting things right
Halifax has accepted its customer service could have been better, and I agree that Mr H 
should have been given a clearer answer to his queries about the date when his 
concessionary rate would end  even if that answer had been that this was HR-restricted 
information. But balanced against that is the fact that Mr H knew the rate was in place only 
for 12 months from June 2021, and so I am satisfied that after June 2022, he and Mr M 
received a benefit to which they were not entitled, albeit due to a mistake by Halifax.
Overall, I think the banks offer of £250 for inconvenience is fair. I also think Halifaxs 
goodwill gesture to pay £346.56 (to cover the difference in the monthly payment at SVR and 
the concessionary rate for December 2022) is also fair and reasonable.
Mr H and Mr M havent raised any additional concerns about the removal of the fixed rate on 
the sub-account. They have suffered no detriment in relation to the bank deciding not to 
reinstate this (due to Mr H and Mr Ms plan to re-mortgage, meaning they would avoid the 
ERC if the sub-account wasnt reinstated) and so I dont require Halifax to do anything 
further in relation to this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that, if it has not already done so, Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
must pay Mr H and Mr M a total of £596.56 in full and final settlement of this complaint. I 
make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman