DRN-3716975
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) removed funds from 
his account as a result of a fraud investigation and left blocks on his account for over a year.
Mr Ss complaint was brought by a representative. As the account is held in Mr Ss name, Ill 
refer to Mr S throughout the decision.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr S received a payment of £700 into his Halifax account from a party Ill 
refer to as G.  In July 2021, Halifax received a fraud claim from Gs bank in relation to this 
payment. Halifax added a block to Mr Ss account while they investigated the claim. As part 
of their investigation Halifax contacted Mr S and asked for information about the £700 
payment including why hed received the funds. Mr S told Halifax that the money was a gift 
from G and that he believed the fraud claim was false. Mr S shared information regarding 
personal circumstances and his relationship with G, which he believed was the reason the 
fraud claim was raised. Ultimately, Halifax removed the £700 from Mr Ss account and 
returned it to Gs bank.
Mr S raised a complaint with Halifax saying they shouldnt have debited his account, also 
complaining that the block theyd placed on his account hadnt been removed. Halifax told 
Mr S they had made the correct decision to return the funds to Gs bank, so wouldnt be 
refunding him the £700. But they accepted that the online banking block shouldve been 
removed when the fraud investigation was completed in July 2021, however it remained on 
the account until May 2022 - in error. Halifax paid Mr S £50 in compensation as a result.
Mr S wasnt happy with Halifaxs response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and upheld it. They felt Halifax had acted 
unfairly in taking the £700 from Mr Ss account, so they recommended that Halifax return the 
money to Mr S. The investigator also felt the level of compensation paid by Halifax should be 
increased to £250. 
Halifax agreed with the investigators recommendation to both return the £700 and increase 
the compensation to £250.
Mr S though disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying that due to the block being left 
on his account he was unable to enrol in a university course. Mr S doesnt feel £250 
adequately addresses the level of distress hes experienced.
As the case couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me to review.
Having reviewed the case I noted that the investigator hadnt recommended that interest be 
paid on the £700 for the time it was out of Mr Ss account. This is what we would usually 
recommend, so I contacted Halifax and asked if they would pay interest on the £700 refund 
at the applicable account interest rate, calculated from the date the funds left Mr Ss account 
until the date the funds were returned. We havent had a response from Halifax, so Ive 
proceeded to review the case in full as this recommendation is in line with our approach 
more broadly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should Halifax have taken the £700 from Mr Ss account?
From what Ive seen Halifax received a fraud claim from Gs bank. As a result, they placed a 
block on Mr Ss account, which shouldve remained in place until they had completed their 
fraud investigation. However, Halifax accidentally left the block in place for nearly a year until 
May 2022. Ill address the impact of this block later in the decision. 
Following Halifaxs investigation, they returned the £700 to Gs bank. Im not satisfied that 
Halifax acted reasonably in returning the money, based on the information they were given 
by Mr S. Mr S had told them about a wider personal situation with G and why the fraud claim 
was false.  Based on the information Halifax had, they shouldve identified that these funds 
were part of a civil dispute between the parties and not removed the money from Mr Ss 
account.
As Halifax shouldnt have removed the funds, they should refund Mr S the £700 and pay 
interest at the applicable account interest rate from the date the funds were removed until 
the date theyre returned. 
The impact Halifaxs actions have had on Mr S
Halifax have accepted they left the block on Mr Ss account for nearly a year in error. 
However, I cant see that Mr S proactively contacted Halifax about the block or went into a 
branch to try and access the funds in his account. 
Mr S says he didnt think he could raise the problem with the block while he had an active 
complaint and didnt know he couldve accessed the funds by going into the branch. Mr S 
also says he was significantly impacted by this block as he was looking to enrol in a 
university course, but decided not to make that commitment until the block was removed due 
to not having access to his online banking. 
However, if Mr S was as significantly impacted as hes told us, I wouldve expected him to 
contact Halifax about getting access to his account restored or let Halifax know sooner that 
the block was still in place. At the very least I wouldve expected Mr S to contact Halifax to 
see what options were open to him.  Im not satisfied that I can fairly say Halifax is solely 
responsible for Mr Ss decision to delay his enrolment. As, from what Ive seen, once Halifax 
were made aware that the block was still in place, they removed it. On that basis, I think if Mr 
S had raised the problem with Halifax sooner, they wouldve fixed it which mayve changed 
the steps Mr S wouldve taken.
I realise that Mr S is likely to be disappointed, but after considering everything very carefully, 
Im satisfied that the £250 recommended by the investigator is fair. This payment includes 
the £50 already paid by Halifax, so Halifax should pay Mr S an extra £200 compensation.
Putting things right
To put things right Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should:Refund Mr S the £700, if they havent already done so.
Pay interest on that refund at the applicable account interest rate, calculated from the 
date the funds left Mr Ss account until the date they were returned.
Pay Mr S an additional £200 in compensation (this is based on Halifax saying the 
£50 they originally offered has already been paid).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax and require them to compensate Mr S as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman