DRN-1232808
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is about HSBC UK Bank PLCs (HSBC) failure to explain why it 
had removed their overdraft facility and what other information implied about them as 
customers.  
What happened
In August 2019, Mr and Mrs H received a letter and leaflet from HSBC informing them that 
their overdraft facility, attached to their current account was to be withdrawn. No specific 
reason was given in the letter as to why HSBC were intending to withdraw the facility. But Mr 
and Mrs H said that they read the accompanying leaflet and one of the reasons could be 
fraudulent or criminal activities. This caused them a great deal of concern. 
Mr and Mrs H contacted HSBC for a full explanation. They said that HSBC refused to 
provide them with a reason as to why the overdraft facility was withdrawn except for telling 
them that they dont use the facility. 
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy about this and brought the complaint to the service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint  she didnt think HSBC had treated Mr and Mrs 
H unfairly. She said that HSBC were entitled to withdraw an overdraft facility, provided it 
gave the customer sufficient notice. She also explained that were not a regulator and so 
cant tell HSBC how to make commercial decisions. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
 
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I will now give my reasons why.
 I know that this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs H as theyve explained theyve been 
exemplary customers for many years. I know that the letter and leaflet to remove the facility 
came as a shock. But having looked at the complaint form completed by Mr and Mrs H, I can 
see that the issue isnt the removal of the facility but their perceived failure by HSBC to state 
why it removed the facility and what the leaflet inferred. 
 
I can see from the letter that there is some mention from HSBC that credit reference 
agencies would have been asked for information, but I havent seen the results of a credit 
check. The information that I have seen indicates that the reason for the removal of the 
facility, is that it wasnt being used by Mr and Mrs H. Mr and Mrs H havent disputed that they 
werent using the overdraft. So overall this does seem to be the most likely explanation for 
why the overdraft was removed rather than it being connected to anything negative, such as 
fraud - which HSBC has confirmed wasn't the case.  I note that the final response letter also 
picks up on the point that the bank will look at how the account is used and how much is 
regularly borrowed.
I can appreciate Mr and Mrs H wouldve expected a personalised letter giving a reason 
rather than a generic one.  But the purpose of the letter was for HSBC to notify them of the 
withdrawal of the facility (in accordance with the account terms). So that they had time to 
prepare if they needed to. The letter did that. I dont think it was intended to cause worry or 
alarm. The letter doesnt refer to fraud  it mentions the assessment of various factors. And 
while the accompanying leaflet says that the bank may undertake a search of fraud 
prevention agencies in deciding whether to make available or extend credit, I dont think this 
is the same as saying that the bank had found something of concern here. Im satisfied this 
was standard information intended to inform customers of the sorts of things the bank 
reviews. With this in mind, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong. 
Taking everything together, I dont think HSBC treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly. So Im not 
going to ask it to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman