DRN-3385020
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) applied bank charges to 
their account, between 2013 and 2017, that caused them to experience financial difficulties.
They say that HSBC shouldve done more to help them reduce the amount of overdraft 
charges that were being applied to their account.
What happened
HSBC said that Mr and Mrs R complained too late about the bank charges that were applied 
to their account more than six years before they complained. 
HSBC also said that the overdraft charges that were applied to the account since then were 
applied in line with the account terms and conditions, and so didnt think it had acted unfairly 
or unreasonably towards Mr and Mrs R.
I issued a decision to say that our service is unable to consider Mr and Mrs Rs complaint 
about the charges that were applied to their account prior to 2 August 2015. This means that 
our service can only consider Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about the overdraft charges that 
were applied to their account since 2 August 2015.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he didnt think that the overdraft 
charges applied since August 2015 had been unfairly applied to Mr and Mrs Rs account. 
Mr and Mrs R did not agree with the adjudicators assessment. So the matter was referred 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs R have complained that HSBC applied overdraft charges to their account that 
caused them to experience financial difficulties. And a lender, in this case HSBC, is required 
to monitor a borrowers repayment record and also provide assistance should that 
repayment record suggest the borrower is experiencing financial difficulty.
Looking through the bank statements between August 2015 and September 2017, I can see 
that the account was mostly in credit. It did occasionally become overdrawn, although 
generally only by small amounts. And in this period of time, Mr and Mrs R paid regular 
credits into the account and would return the account to a credit balance within a relatively 
short space of time of it becoming overdrawn - often within a day or two. As such, due to 
how Mr and Mrs R were managing their account during this period of time, I dont think a 
review of their account wouldve indicated to HSBC that they were experiencing financial 
difficulties.
I note that from 18 September 2017, the account became overdrawn and remained as such, 
until the account was closed in March 2018. In this period of time, I can see that HSBC wrote 
to Mr and Mrs R a number of times. These letters explained that Direct Debits had been 
returned unpaid - as they wouldve taken the account further into an unarranged overdraft 
had they been allowed to go through. In the circumstances, I think this was reasonable. 
I can also see that HSBC stopped applying charges to the account after 20 November 2017. 
So it seems that HSBC stopped applying bank charges within a reasonable amount of time 
from when it was apparent that Mr and Mrs R were not able to bring the account back into a 
credit balance quickly. I think this was reasonable, as it ensured that overdraft charges were 
not adding to Mr and Mrs Rs indebtedness.  
HSBC also wrote to Mr and Mrs R in November 2017 to explain that the overdrawn balance 
needed to be repaid and invited Mr and Mrs R to contact HSBC to discuss how they could 
do this. HSBC also provided the contact details for charities they could contact for debt 
advice, if they werent comfortable speaking to HSBC about their debt. Unfortunately, as the 
debt was not repaid, the amount owed was eventually passed to recoveries and the account 
closed.
Based on what I have seen, Im unable to say that HSBC acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr and Mrs R in relation to the debt that had accrued on their account since August 
2015. Because of this, I dont think it would be reasonable to say that HSBC should refund 
any bank charges that Mr and Mrs R incurred on their account in this period of time.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman