DRN-2811805
The complaint
Miss C complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream was irresponsible in its 
lending to her.   
What happened
Miss C was provided with four loans by Lending Stream between December 2015 and April 
2016. The details are set out below.
Loan Amount (£) Date Repaid
1 390 18-12-2015 15-03-2016
2 140 26-02-2016 15-03-2016
3 250 01-04-2016 19-02-2019
4 340 05-04-2016
Miss C says that at the time of the loans she had a poor credit rating and wasnt in a position 
to take on more debt.
Lending Stream says before providing the loans it checked that Miss C was working and 
gathered information about her income and expenses. It checked the expenses information 
provided against external data sources. It also carried out a credit check. It says based on its 
checks Miss C had enough disposable income to make her repayments. 
In regard to loan 4, while Lending Stream says this loan was affordable, given the number of 
loans she had taken out and the timing of these it might not have been a good idea to 
provide this loan. Therefore, it offered to refund the interest and charges on loan 4 along with 
8% interest. It noted that Miss C still had an outstanding balance on her account and after 
offsetting the refund on loan 4 this would leave her with an amount to pay of £25.64.
Our adjudicator didnt think that Lending Stream was required to do anything more than it 
had offered.
Miss C requested that her case be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Miss C could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint.
Miss C took out her first loan with Lending Stream in December 2015. The loan was for £390 
repayable over six monthly instalments with the highest repayment amount being £175. At 
this time, she declared a monthly income of £1,300. She declared monthly expenses of £200 
although I note in the assessment for the loan her disposable income was reduced to £838 
suggesting a higher expenses number was included. Given the expenses number provided 
in Miss Cs application was low I find it reasonable that the disposable income number used 
was adjusted. As this was Miss Cs first loan and considering the monthly repayment 
amounts compared to her income, I find the checks carried out were proportionate. I dont 
think the credit check raised any concerns that required further investigation and as the loan 
appeared affordable I do not find it was wrong that this loan was provided.
 
Miss C took out a second loan while the first was still outstanding. Loan 2 was for £140 
repayable over six months with the highest monthly repayment being £63. Information about 
Miss Cs income and expenses was gathered before the loan was provided and Miss Cs 
declared income remained at £1,300 and she increased her declared expenses to £325. 
This would give a disposable income of £975 however I note in the loan assessment a 
disposable income of £738 was used. Considering the combined repayments on the first two 
loans compared to Miss Cs monthly income and noting this was only Miss Cs second loan 
from Lending Stream I find the checks carried out were adequate. As the credit check didnt raise concerns and the income and expenses checks suggested the loan was affordable I do 
not find I can say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Miss C repaid loans 1 and 2 in March 2016 and then took out a third loan around two weeks 
later. This loan was for £250 repayable over six months with the highest monthly repayment 
amount being £108. Again, checks were carried out an Miss Cs income and expenses and a 
disposable income of £863 was calculated. While this was Miss Cs third loan in less than 
four months, she had repaid her previous two loans early and given the size of the 
repayments compared to her income I find the checks carried out were reasonable. The 
credit check before this loan showed that Miss C had a default recorded but I do not find that 
this was enough to suggest that further checks were needed at this stage. As the checks 
suggested the loan was affordable I do not find I can say Lending Stream was wrong to 
provide this loan.
Miss C took out loan 4 a few days after loan 3 and while loan 3 was still outstanding. This 
was her fourth loan in less than four months, and I agree with Lending Stream that given the 
number and timing of the loans this should have raised concerns. Lending Stream upheld 
Miss Cs complaint regarding loan 4 and I find the settlement it offered is reasonable.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream to do 
anything more than it offered in its final response letter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman