DRN-1767252
The complaint
Mr C complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) charged him more for his motor insurance 
policy than hed been originally quoted. He wants it to honour the original quote. 
What happened
Mr C applied for a policy online with UKI. He was quoted a premium of £1,296.96. Mr C had 
paid this amount after 11 months. But UKI said he also had to pay interest for the credit that 
hed agreed when hed taken out the policy. Mr C was unhappy with this. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr C 
had been reasonably warned when he took out his policy online that interest would be added 
to the premium if he paid it by monthly instalments. She thought this was also set out in the 
credit agreement sent to Mr C when he took out the policy.
Mr C replied that he thought UKI hadnt told him at any time that his premium would be 
higher than that quoted. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C said he had a confirmation email from UKI stating that his annual premium was 
£1,296.96. I agree that this is the premium price he was quoted. But I think its common 
practice for an insurer to apply a credit charge when a consumer decides to pay for an 
annual premium by monthly instalments. 
Mr C decided to do this and paid a deposit and then 10 instalments. So Ive looked to see 
whether UKI reasonably made Mr C aware of this, and the total cost of his policy, when he 
took it out. 
Ive looked at the process Mr C followed when he applied for his policy online. I can see that 
the cost of paying by instalments was explained on two occasions. These set out the credit 
charges and interest rates that would be applied. Mr C would have had to agree that hed 
read and understood these before he could proceed with his policy purchase. 
I can also see that UKI sent Mr C a Welcome Pack that included his credit agreement. This 
also set out the costs of paying for his premium by monthly instalments. It says the total 
payable is £1,405.04, which includes interest of £108.08 and an arrangement fee of £0. It 
urged Mr C to check that this suited his needs. 
So I think UKI made Mr C reasonably aware that he would be charged interest if he decided 
to pay his premium by direct debit instalments. I think it clearly set out what the instalments 
would be and the dates they were due. I think Mr C was provided with enough information so 
that he could decide whether this plan suited his needs. So I think UKI hasnt done anything 
wrong and I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman