DRN-4217855
The complaint
Mr B complains that Business Insurance Solutions Limited (BISL) allowed motor insurance 
policies to be taken out in his name fraudulently and failed to respond to him promptly about 
this.
What happened
Mr B discovered that two motor insurance policies had been issued to someone using his 
name and an address where hed previously lived. The policies were taken out using a 
finance agreement. 
He contacted the finance company and BISL, asking about how this had happened. The 
finance company sent a response confirming it had cancelled the finance agreements and 
contacted the credit reference agency to ensure any adverse record was removed. 
Mr B didnt receive a response from BISL, so he complained to our Service.
Having not had a response from BISL to our request for information, our investigator issued 
a view based on the information Mr B had provided. He upheld the complaint and asked 
BISL to pay compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Mr B was unhappy that BISL hadnt provided information about what had happened and said 
the compensation of £100 didnt adequately reflect the distress hed suffered or the fact hed 
had to take out fraud protection. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
BISL then provided evidence about how the policies had been issued, and that they had 
been voided once it was discovered the policies had been taken out in Mr Bs name without 
his knowledge. BISL also said it was happy to pay the compensation. 
The investigator said BISL had shown it carried out checks before issuing the policy and 
wasnt at fault in the way it dealt with that. But he still thought the compensation, which BISL 
had now agreed to pay, was fair in view of the time taken to respond to Mr B.
Mr B is still unhappy about the level of compensation. So I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B is naturally upset and concerned that someone was able to use his details to take out 
the insurance. From the evidence BISL has now provided I can see it did carry out checks, 
including checks with credit reference agencies. Based on the information it had I dont 
consider it was at fault in relation to that. But it was slow to respond to Mr B when he raised 
his concerns. 
Mr B would like to know who it was that used some of his personal details but BISL doesnt 
have that information  the insurance was sold on the basis of someone using his details, 
not their own.
Once the issue came to light the insurance was voided, as well as the finance agreements  
and the finance company provided details to the credit reference agency to ensure Mr Bs 
credit rating would not be adversely affected.
I have no doubt it was distressing for Mr B to find out what had happened. But where BISL 
was at fault was in not acting promptly when he raised his concerns. Having considered the 
impact of that I think a payment of £100 is fair to reflect the distress caused to him.
Mr B says the compensation doesnt cover the cost of the fraud protection hes taken out, or 
impose any kind of penalty on BISL. Were not the regulator and its not my role to punish 
firms for their actions. Where something has gone wrong, I need to consider the impact of 
that on the individual and how to put things right for them. As Ive explained, I think £100 is a 
fair amount in light of the distress caused to Mr B by the failure to act more quickly. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Business Insurance Solutions Limited to pay compensation 
of £100 to Mr B for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman