DRN-2833423
The complaint
Mr B complains about his contract for difference trading account with Plus500UK Ltd. 
What happened
In April 2017, Mr B opened a contract for difference (CFD) trading account with Plus500UK 
Ltd. Some of Mr Bs trades were profitable, but unfortunately he says he went on to lose 
more than £30,000. 
With help of his representatives, Mr B made a complaint to Plus500 in October 2020. They 
said, in summary:
Hed been enticed to set the account up following online advertising
The questions asked were simple and only asked about previous trades and finances
The multiple choice options were bracketed  hed selected a salary between 
£15,000 and £30,000 and available money for trading between £0 and £5,000. So he 
could have had a £15,000 salary and traded with £5,000  risking a third of his 
annual salary. He wasnt warned about this
He was an inexperienced trader and CFD accounts are only suitable for experienced 
traders
The high risks mean his account was doomed to fail from the outset
He didnt understand magnified losses, nor the risks inherent to the account
His risk appetite wasnt properly considered to ensure he was suitable for CFDs
Plus500 had failed to adequately assess his suitability for a CFD account as the 
assessment was generic with standard risk warning disclaimers
Plus500 hadnt complied with guidance from the European Securities and Markets 
Authority (ESMA) when allowing him to self-assess his appropriateness to trade
It was recommended he deposit further funds which only increased his losses
Hed used the chat function and queried the type of trading he was doing, so this 
further evidenced he was unsuitable for this sort of trading
And he was unhappy margin call emails hadnt been included within his data subject 
access request
As Mr B estimated his losses to be in excess of £30,000, he asked to be compensated for 
the full amount. 
Plus500 looked into the concerns but didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They said, in 
summary:
Their advertising and marketing had been compliant with the rules and always 
contained risk warnings
They didnt need to assess Mr Bs suitability for trading  they only needed to carry 
out an appropriateness assessment and were allowed to rely on the information Mr B 
had given
They asked about his finances for anti-money laundering reasons rather than to 
assess his affordability
Hed said he had sometimes traded CFDs with an average monthly amount of 
£500+ so they felt the account was appropriate 
To open his account he had to confirm hed read the user agreement, risk disclosure 
notice and key information document  and these all outlined the risks involved
And theyd not shared the margin call emails as they didnt contain his personal data
Remaining unhappy with this, Mr B asked for our help. One of our investigators had a look at 
what happened. He thought about Mr Bs appropriateness for this sort of trading, how risks 
had been explained and how the margin call emails were phrased. But having done that, he 
didnt agree Plus500 had done anything wrong. 
Mr B and his representatives didnt agree but didnt say why. As an agreement wasnt 
reached, the case was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about all the points Mr B and his representatives have raised  in my 
view, the core of his complaint turns on whether it was right for Plus500 to have allowed 
Mr B to open an account in the first place and to expose himself to the risks which 
unfortunately led to the money he lost.
As Plus500 are a regulated firm theyre subject to the rules set out in the regulators 
handbook  the conduct of business (COBS) section is whats relevant here. But contrary to 
the representatives arguments and concerns about suitability and ESMA guidance, Plus500 
werent required to assess the suitability of Mr Bs upcoming trading as they werent going to 
be giving him any advice  as confirmed in the user agreement at 5.8, the account was 
opened on an execution only basis so it was for him to decide which trades to make. 
Instead the relevant rules required Plus500 to assess Mr Bs appropriateness for derivatives 
trading  COBS 10.2 sets out the obligations around assessing appropriateness and at the 
time, the rule said:
COBS 10.2.1 R
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client 
to provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the investment 
field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to 
enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for 
the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm:
(a) must determine whether the client has the necessary experience and knowledge 
in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the product or service offered 
or demanded;
..
COBS 10.2.2 R 
The information regarding a client's knowledge and experience in the investment field 
includes, to the extent appropriate to the nature of the client, the nature and extent of 
the service to be provided and the type of product or transaction envisaged, including 
their complexity and the risks involved, information on:
(1) the types of service, transaction and designated investment with which the client 
is familiar;
(2) the nature, volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated 
investments and the period over which they have been carried out;
(3) the level of education, profession or relevant former profession of the client.In short, the rules required Plus500 to gather relevant information from Mr B in order to 
decide whether he had the necessary knowledge and experience to understand the risks 
involved when trading CFDs.
Ive reviewed the account opening questions and the answers Mr B gave  given what he 
told them, Plus500 determined that the account to be appropriate. When asked about his 
CFD or leveraged investment involvement within the last three years, Mr B answered 
sometimes and regarding the average amounts traded each month, Mr B answered 
£500+. Mr B also answered true when asked if he understood he would only be trading 
CFDs with Plus500. 
Although Mr B didnt declare any other trading experience, relevant employment or 
qualifications, as hed told Plus500 hed had experience with the sorts of products they 
offered, I see why they considered him an appropriate candidate for their account and why a 
specific warning in line with COBS 10.3 wasnt required. 
Mr Bs representatives feel his financial situation ought to have negated this though, and that 
on affordability grounds he shouldnt have been allowed to trade CFDs. But the rules  at 
COBS 10.2.1 and 10.2.2  are instead focussed on the prospective clients knowledge and 
experience in the relevant investment field, in this case, leveraged products. The rules ask 
firms to consider whether clients, given their knowledge and experience, are able to 
understand the risks involved, to consider the services and transactions clients are familiar 
with, the nature, volume and frequency of relevant transactions and any relevant education 
or professional experience they may have. The rules do not ask Plus500 to conduct any sort 
of affordability check  so I dont think Mr Bs financial circumstances were something that 
ought to have prevented him from opening his account. 
The representatives say Mr B was an inexperienced trader and wouldnt have understood 
the impact leverage was set to have on his positions. But Mr B did tell Plus500 he had some 
relevant experience, and in line with COBS 10.2.4, they were entitled to rely on it as I see no 
reason for them to have felt it was out of date, inaccurate or incomplete. So from everything 
Ive seen, I dont think there were shortcomings in Plus500s appropriateness assessment 
and instead feel that it was reasonable for Mr Bs account to have been opened. 
Despite this, the representatives also say Plus500 failed to adequately explain the risks 
associated with this sort of trading. They say the reliance on standard risk warnings and 
disclaimers wasnt sufficient. Ive reviewed some of the documentation associated with the 
opening of Mr Bs account which he had to agree to have read and understood before the 
account was opened  relevant to this issue were both the user agreement and risk 
disclosure notice. 
The first page of the user agreement included a coloured box with the following text: 
Trading in Contracts for Differences (CFDs) and use of the Trading Platform (which 
allows high leverage investments in CFDs) carries a high level of risk to your 
investment. Make sure you fully understand the risks involved before downloading 
the software and accessing the Trading Platform and take investment, financial, tax 
or other advice if necessary. CFD trading may not be suitable for every customer. A 
detailed explanation of the risks associated with trading on the Trading Platform is 
set out in this User Agreement and the Risk Disclosure Notice which can be found by 
clicking on the Risk Warning on the Website. You should ensure you fully understand 
such risks before entering into the Client Agreement and using the Trading Platform.
Part one of the user agreement was the key facts summary. This had a section titled risks, 
this said:The value of the financial instruments which you gain an exposure in via a CFD (or 
other similar products) position may go up and down. You should make sure you fully 
understand the risks involved in trading CFDs (and related products) and take 
appropriate advice if necessary. CFD trading carries a higher degree of risk than 
ordinary share dealing and may not be suitable for every customer. A further detailed 
explanation of the risks associated with trading on the Trading Platform is set out in 
the Risk Disclosure Notice which can be found by clicking on the Risk Warning on 
the Website.
Among other things, the key facts summary also explained that Mr B would have no interest 
in the underlying, that hed be responsible for his trading decisions and the importance of 
margin. The risk disclosure notice was a seven page document devoted to outlining the risks 
involved with this sort of trading. This explained that Plus500 felt CFDs carried a high degree 
of risk and the nature of margin trading could magnify losses. It also went into a number of 
different risks involved. So from everything Ive seen, Im satisfied Plus500 did explain the 
risks to Mr B and that it was therefore Mr Bs responsibility to ensure he understood and was 
comfortable in taking the very high risks involved.
After the account was opened and Mr B had been trading for some time, I note that he used 
Plus500s online chat function on a number of different occasions  his representatives feel 
this is relevant to the considerations here around his understanding of the account. I have 
reviewed Mr Bs online chat history and have summarised some of the communication 
below:
In January 2018  Mr B asked, I'm enquiring for taxation purposes in the UK, can 
you confirm if the type of trading that I'm doing is CFD or spread trading? Are you 
able to say if it is taxable in the UK?. Plus500 replied to explain they operated in 
over 50 different countries so it was for their customer to be responsible for whatever 
was required for tax reporting. They explained how to export reports and reiterated 
what CFDs were, in short, that they offered him the benefits from trading a stock, 
index, fund, foreign currency or commodity but without having to own the underlying 
instrument. 
Mr B used chat again four days later. That time, he said, Just enquiring why there is 
an expiry on crypto trades? I currently have a trade open on bitcoin - is it possible to 
extend the expiry???. Plus500 confirmed this wasnt possible. 
Later that month, Mr B contacted Plus500 again to try and expediate a withdrawal 
request. He asked the same thing again in early March 2018. 
In April 2018, Mr B asked, Is there a report that you suggest for submitting tax 
returns?. Plus500 explained how to generate the report. Mr B then asked if I run 
the account statement report and send to my accountant, that would provide 
everything they need?. Plus500 said it should, but that it would depend on what the 
accountant needed to see. 
In July 2018 Mr B queried the prices Plus500 were quoting for a Stirling Yen position 
and compared the open trade price with his open position price. Plus500 considered 
the screenshots Mr B shared showing the trade tab and open positions tab  he said 
the prices were completely different for the same instrument at the same time. 
Plus500 clarified that the prices were current buy rates and current sell rates. 
A week later, Mr B got in touch again and asked, Can you confirm if my trading is 
classed as spread betting or a different form of trading please?  Im trying to determine if I need to declare it for tax purposes  I was checking the type of 
trading to be able to notify an accountant - so its CFD trading. Plus500 confirmed 
the type of trading, that tax disclosure was Mr Bs responsibility and how to generate 
reports to evidence trading. 
In December 2019, Mr B asked, is it possible to get some info regarding some 
previous trades Ive placed please?  Ive been asked if my trades between April 
2017- mar 2018 were on a margin. Are there any documents regarding this? 
Plus500 confirmed they offered leveraged trading only so he was trading on margin. 
Mr B asked, Is there any documentation regarding the margin? but this wasnt 
available. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Bs queries to Plus500 and what they tell us about his 
understanding of his account and mindset at various points in time. 
The representatives suggest that Mr Bs enquiry about whether his trading was spread 
betting or a different form of trading is evidence he was unaware of what account hed 
opened and that he wasnt a suitable candidate for CFD trading. They also said this wasnt 
followed up with a suitability warning.
As I said before, suitability isnt a consideration here as Plus500 were not giving Mr B any 
advice. But I take the representatives point around what could lead us to question Mr Bs 
understanding of what he was doing.
Despite thinking carefully about this, I dont agree that this query  nor any of the others  
ought to have concerned Plus500 about Mr Bs appropriateness for trading. I say this 
because Mr Bs queries about the sort of account he had or sorts of trades hed done were 
largely driven by his need to satisfy his accountant and make an accurate declaration for tax. 
He also queried extending an expiry  something that differs depending on which business 
you trade with, so I dont think it would be right to read into this. Nor do I think it would be 
right to read into the pricing query  in answer to Plus500s response Mr B just said Ok, 
thank you for clarifying rather than to explain he did not understand. Hed also bet on 
currency pairs hundreds of times before asking this question, so I should think he thought 
hed spotted an error or glitch as opposed to failing to understand the nature of the trade.  
On that point, I also recognise Mr B made hundreds of trades before his queries to Plus500 
 sometimes profiting and sometimes losing money  so Im satisfied the nature of his 
queries was not driven by a fundamental lack of understanding of the product, rather, they 
were specific questions around what appeared to be a pricing error, whether he could 
amend an expiry and to file proper tax returns. 
Mr Bs representatives also shared a number of emails he received regarding his margin. 
These were sent to Mr B when he was at risk of being closed out on positions as he didnt 
have enough money in his account to maintain the required level of margin. Ive reviewed a 
number of the emails. Many were titled Your account equity is close to a margin call and 
these said:
To avoid a margin call, we recommend that you add more funds to your account
The email then set out Mr Bs current equity level and the equity level required for a margin 
call, reminding him positions may be closed automatically if equity fell below that level. 
Other types of email were titled Urgent Notice  Margin Required and said:
Your account equity has fallen below the total maintenance margin requirement.
.If you don't add funds to your account, your position(s) may be closed automatically 
at any given
moment.

To maintain your position(s) open, you need to deposit at least £[X]
The representatives suggest Plus500 frequently recommended Mr B add more money to 
his account, yet this fuelled further losses. And they make this point when explaining their 
concerns about Mr Bs suitability for trading. But having considered the emails, I dont agree 
they amount to personal recommendations or advice which could be construed as Plus500 
involving themselves with suitability. 
Instead, the margin emails were to alert Mr B he may soon to be closed out of his open 
positions. Being closed out would have crystallised losses which Mr B may otherwise have 
wanted to ride out should he have felt the market was set to move and return him to profit (or 
at least a less of a loss). So I dont agree Plus500 were wrong to alert Mr B to this possibility 
or that the alert gave rise to a personal recommendation  it remained for Mr B to decide 
whether to add more money to his account and to continue trading or not.
I do sympathise with Mr Bs situation as I can see hes lost a lot of money. But from 
everything Ive seen and for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Plus500 did 
anything wrong here. While this sort of trading can be high risk, this in itself doesnt absolve 
Mr B of his own responsibility for his actions and decisions  he chose to trade in the way he 
did, as frequently as he did, for as long as he did and to fund the account as he did. And I 
dont think anything Plus500 did affected any of those decisions he made. So it follows that 
Mr Bs losses are not something for which Plus500 ought fairly and reasonably to be held 
responsible for.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman