DRN-3657092
The complaint
Mr O complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) rejected his application for 
a Reward account.     
What happened
Mr O made an online application for a NatWest account and he wanted to take advantage of 
an introductory incentive they had at the time.
On the application, he selected his nationality as ........ and then was asked to provide 
identification. He was given the option of providing a resident permit or relevant visa 
documents. However, Mr O did not have a resident permit or visa as he has dual citizenship 
and therefore tried to use his British passport and driving license as proof of his identity. 
These documents were rejected by the system and after three attempts, his application was 
declined automatically.
Mr O received an e-mail informing him that his application had been rejected but this did not 
give him a reason as to why. Mr O applied for an account with a different bank which is in 
the same banking group as NatWest. He had to go through the same application process but 
this time he selected his nationality as British and he had no issues opening the account. He 
feels he has been discriminated against because he has dual nationality and says this has 
caused him pain and suffering. As a result, he would like £5,000 compensation, plus the 
£150 incentive offer and ten years worth of the £5 monthly benefit of the account he missed 
out on which he says totals £600.
NatWest issued a final response in which it explained that as Mr O was trying to upload 
documents that didnt relate to a resident permit, they were automatically rejected. They 
apologised that this had not been clearly explained to him and offered him £75 
compensation. Mr O disagreed with this and raised a further complaint. NatWest issued a 
second final response letter essentially repeating what it had said before, but increased the 
level of compensation to £100. It also offered Mr O an alternative option in phoning the 
Exceptions team to open the bank account.
Mr O referred his complaint to our service. In their submission to us, NatWest recognised it 
missed an opportunity to explain to Mr O in its first final response letter that as he had dual 
citizenship, he could have selected British as his nationality and the application would have 
been successful. And if they had have done, they felt Mr O could have received the incentive 
still. As a result, they offered Mr O £150 and said that this was in addition to the £75 
compensation he had already been paid previously.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. They felt that there was a misunderstanding 
about the documentation that was required and that had Mr O selected his nationality as 
British, the application would have succeeded. They felt that the offer of £150 to cover the 
incentive that was missed, plus £100 compensation was fair in the circumstances. They did 
not agree that NatWest should pay Mr O the £600 he was claiming as there was no way to 
quantify the potential loss he incurred.
Mr O disagreed with the outcome. He felt that the system forcing him to use his British 
nationality over his ........ one was discriminatory and that he should have been given a 
reason why his application was rejected at the first stage. He still felt he should receive the 
£600 he calculated in lost monthly benefits from having the Reward account and he again 
requested £5,000 in compensation.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the total of £250 compensation previously recommended is fair in the 
circumstances. Ill explain why in more detail.
The first thing I need to clarify is the fact that this service is unable to make findings on 
whether or not something constitutes discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010, this is for a 
court to decide. However, I can consider whether or not the business has acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner, and in order to do that I will take a number of things, including the 
Equality Act 2010, into consideration.
Ive considered if it was reasonable for NatWest to reject Mr Os online application. When Mr 
O began his application, he listed his country of birth as ....... and then selected his 
nationality as ............ also. Because he selected a nationality other than British, I think it was 
reasonable for NatWests online system to ask for evidence he had the right to reside in the 
United Kingdom (UK) and therefore open a current account legally. Ordinarily, this 
evidence would either be a Resident Permit or a relevant visa.
However, Mr O did not have either of these documents and so when he tried to use his UK 
passport and then a drivers license, the system automatically rejected the documentation he 
provided as they did not match the categories he had selected. Again, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for the system to reject the documentation as they did not match the 
documentation the system was expecting to be uploaded. And as it is a fully automated 
system, there is no human interaction, so no one was able to step in and see if Mr O needed 
assistance.
I think it therefore follows that it was not unreasonable for NatWest to automatically decline 
Mr Os account application once he tried to upload an incorrect document three times. And I 
can understand why they did not give a specific reason as to why the application had been 
rejected when it e-mailed him. It was an automated response that was not personalised to 
Mr O and NatWest did not have an obligation at that time to provide a detailed reason as to 
why the application was declined.
I can see that in one of NatWests final response letters, they did offer an alternative way for 
Mr O to apply for the account. This was by telephoning the Exceptions team. However, I 
can see that Mr O opted to work around the system and take out an account with a separate
provider, but this time he selected his nationality as British.
While I can appreciate it would have been useful for Mr O specifically if there had been an 
option to upload a UK passport when selecting a different nationality, on balance I dont think the options NatWest gave to evidence a right to reside in the UK were unreasonable.
NatWest has recognised that they could have explained the reason why Mr Os application 
had been rejected more clearly in their final response letter. And that if they had have done, 
Mr O could have successfully applied for the account and taken advantage of the £150 
incentive. So, I think it is fair that they have offered to pay him the £150 incentive offer. And I 
think the additional £100 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused is in line 
with what I would have recommended in the circumstances.
Mr O would also like to be compensated the £5 monthly benefit on the account which can be 
earnt as long as certain criteria are met each month. This includes depositing more than 
£1,250 into the account per month, having 2 or more direct debits and logging into the 
mobile banking application once a month. I understand that Mr O says he would have 
completed these tasks and he believes he would have kept the account open for at least ten 
years, so feels he should receive £600. But Im only able to consider actual loss, not 
perceived future loss as Mr O is requesting here. There is no guarantee all the criteria would 
have been met consistently and there is also no guarantee how long the account would have 
remained open. So, I do not award any compensation for this aspect of the complaint.   
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Os complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc and direct it to pay 
him a total of £250 compensation, taking into account any amounts already paid to him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman