DRN-3320092
The complaint
Mr D complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited settled unreasonable third party 
costs for a motor insurance claim.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr Ds car was involved in a collision with a third-partys vehicle. The 
third partys insurer said Mr D was at fault for the incident and damage. Acromas later said, 
based on the available evidence, it wouldnt be possible to prove the third-party was at fault 
for the incident. In February 2021 it explained to Mr D it had settled the third-partys claim.   
In July 2021 Mr D complained to Acromas. He was unhappy it had agreed to the third-partys 
claim costs of about £2,800. He provided an estimate from a garage for repairs. He felt it 
showed the third-partys vehicles repairs could have been completed in one day, for much 
less and with no hire car required  saving around £2,600. He was also disappointed 
Acromas had failed to return his calls.  
In August 2021 Acromas issued a response to Mr Ds complaint. It said it had considered the 
repairs estimate he had provided. But it was satisfied the third-partys insurer had justified 
the claim costs. Acromas considered them fair and reasonable. 
Mr D wasnt satisfied with Acromas response so came to this service. Our investigator felt 
Acromas had acted fairly and reasonably when agreeing and settling the third-partys claim 
costs. She agreed its communication with Mr D could have been better. But she didn't think 
the impact on him was significant enough to justify compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds policy terms allow Acromas to take over and deal with claims on his behalf. That 
means it might make a decision he disagrees with, but the policy allows it to do so. I can 
consider if its decision was reasonable. Having looked at everything, I think it was. 
Mr D hasnt complained about the decision to accept he was at fault. So I havent considered 
that. His focus is on Acromas accepting the third-partys costs of about £2,800. This included 
repairs at around £1,500 and hire car costs of about £750 (both exclusive of VAT). 
Mr D feels the third-party claimed for, and Acromas agreed to, some pre-existing, non-
incident related damage. Ive seen the third-party engineers report with repair costs. Ive 
considered what Mr D says about the incident, the condition of the third-party vehicle, his 
photos and his repair estimate. The third-partys repair estimate was produced by an 
engineer following an inspection of the vehicle, rather than from photos or a description of 
damage. The engineers report is more persuasive. Overall I havent seen enough to make 
me think Acromas settled any unreasonable or non-incident repair costs.  
Acromas paid costs for about 20 days car hire. Mr D feels a hire car wasnt necessary. As 
Ive said Im more persuaded by the third-party engineers report. This estimated repairs and 
authorisations taking 10 days. The incident and repairs took place around Christmas and 
New Year. So I can understand why a hire car may have been required for longer than might 
usually be expected. 
I accept the claim has caused Mr D some distress. However, I cant fairly say Acromas was 
responsible for that. I realise this will be disappointing for him, but Im satisfied, when settling 
the third-party claim, Acromas acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms of his 
policy.  
Mr Ds complained Acromas wouldnt agree to him discussing the claim and complaint with a 
company director. I dont think it treated him unreasonably by refusing his request. The claim 
didnt require the involvement of such senior employees. I accept Acromas communication 
with Mr D might have been better at times. But I dont think he was caused any significant 
unnecessary distress or inconvenience. So Im not going to require Acromas to pay him any 
compensation or do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman