DRN-3733860
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about the refusal of his claim for business interruption under his Office 
Guardian business protection insurance policy with MS Amlin SE (MSA). 
Mr H is represented in this complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and 
comments as being those of Mr H.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr H contacted MSA to make a claim for business interruption after his 
business was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. 
MSA declined the claim in September 2020, as it said the policy would only provide cover in 
the event of the business having to close as a direct result of an occurrence of Covid-19 at 
the premises.    Mr H had provided evidence that a client who had been at one of his 
premises in March 2020 had Covid-19 symptoms but MSA said, even if the client had Covid-
19, this possible case of  wasnt the cause of interruption to Mr Hs business. MSA said the 
cause of Mr Hs losses was the downturn in business caused by the Government 
restrictions, rather than due to an occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises. 
MSA didnt provide its final decision on the outcome of the claim until June 2021. It said it 
had to wait for the outcome of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) business interruption 
insurance test case (in which the courts considered a sample of policy wordings and how 
they should respond to the pandemic) before making a final decision on Mr Hs claim.
Mr H does not accept the Investigators assessment. Mr H has made a number of 
submissions in support of this claim and complaint, Ive summarised his main points below: 
the loss adjuster knew from the outset there had been a case of Covid-19 at the 
premises but misrepresented this to deliberately try and avoid the claim. 
He has provided a letter and additional evidence from the client who says he visited 
the premises four or five times in the first three weeks of March 2020 and then in the 
week of 23 March 2020 experienced Covid-19 symptoms and was required to self-
isolate in line with NHS advice. Given the incubation period of the disease, it is likely 
he was infected with Covid-19 when he visited the offices in the weeks prior to 23 
March 2020. 
There were hundreds of thousands of infections at that time and in the absence of 
freely available Covid-19 testing then, this evidence from a credible witness would be 
sufficient to meet the requirements of cover on a balance of probabilities basis in a 
UK court. 
MSAs interpretation of the Supreme Courts judgement on the test case is wrong. It 
suggests that the restrictions imposed on the insured need to have been specifically 
directed at the insured premises alone, which is contrary to the Supreme Courts 
findings in the test case. 
The Supreme Courts judgment supports that this claim should be met, as the clients 
attendance at the premises in mid-March 2020 was an equally contributory reason 
for the restrictions imposed and advice issued by the Government in March 2020. 
There is no requirement whatsoever that the restrictions or advice must be imposed 
or issued directly as a result of the clients presence at the premises.
MSA also says the premises have to have been closed but the policy only requires 
'restrictions on the use' of insured premises. 
MSA has caused a number of delays and their approach throughout has been
to deny cover. This has caused significant frustration at a most difficult time. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he was satisfied MSA was entitled to refuse the claim, as there was not enough  
evidence of a case of Covid-19 at the business premises. 
Mr H does not accept the Investigators assessment. As the Investigator was unable to 
resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of detailed points. While Ive considered them all, Im not going to
address them all in this decision but will instead focus on what I see as the central issues to
this complaint.
Business policies provide protection for some of the common things which might happen to a 
business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may provide 
different cover. 
Mr Hs policy provides cover for various events, including business interruption. I have 
considered the entire policy carefully. The main part of cover I think might be relevant is the 
extension to the business interruption section of cover for infectious diseases. The policy 
says:  
Section 1 - Material Damage and Business Interruption
Sub-section 2 - Business Interruption
Infectious diseases
For the purpose of this extension consequential loss means loss resulting from the 
interruption of or interference with the business carried on by you at the premises 
because of the following occurrences:
a) a notifiable disease at the premises or attributable to food or drink supplied to the
premises;
b) the discovery of an organism at the premises likely to result in the occurrence of a
notifiable disease 
which causes restrictions on the use of the premises on the order or advice of the 
competent local authority.
The Definitions section of the policy says that the following definitions apply and shall keep 
the same meaning wherever they appear in the Section. The policy defines a notifiable 
disease as being: Injury or illness sustained by any person resulting from an occurrence of a human 
infectious or human contagious disease as listed below or as stipulated that must be 
notified by an appropriately empowered authority: 
a) acute encephalitis; b) anthrax; c) chickenpox; d) cholera; e) diphtheria; f) 
dysentery; g) food and drink poisoning; h) leprosy; i) leptospirosis; j) malaria; k) 
measles; 1) meningococcal infection; m) mumps; n) opthalmia neonatorum; 0) 
paratyphoid fever; P) plague; q) rabies; r) rubella; s) scarlet fever; t) smallpox; u) 
tetanus; V) tuberculosis; w) typhoid fever; X) viral hepatitis; y) whooping cough; z) 
yellow fever; aa) acute poliomyelitis bb) legionnaires disease
I agree with Mr H that the above clause does not require closure of the premises but 
interruption of or interference with the business carried on at the premises, due to 
restrictions on the use of the premises. Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. So for this extension 
to provide cover for Mr Hs claim, the interruption to business would need to have been as a 
result of an occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises. 
The Supreme Court in the test case said that an occurrence of Covid-19 happens when an 
individual becomes diagnosable with the disease. So in this case, there would have to have 
been someone diagnosable with Covid-19 at the premises at the relevant time. Widespread 
testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government advised 
people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, save for 
emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive test result 
from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the premises 
would, in my view, be unfair. 
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
occurred at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden of 
proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy 
covers.
Mr H says there was an occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises and has provided evidence 
to support that. One of his customers has provided a statement to say he visited the 
premises four or five times in the first three weeks of March 2020. No exact dates have been 
given for when he was at the premises, however, I take this to mean there was no visit after 
the end of the third week of March, i.e. 21 March 2020. 
The customer says that he then developed Covid-19 symptoms in the week of 23 March 
2020. Again no exact date of the onset of symptoms has been given. However, he has given 
a transcript of some messages from the time, one of which dated 31 March 2020 refers to 
having felt unwell for about five days, which would suggest symptoms began on or around 
26 March 2020. 
Another message dated 27 March 2020 said he had developed cough fatigue and Ive got 
some mild breathing issues Perhaps well never know if its cv19 or just a bug. If its covid I 
think its the diet version but 111 said just play it safe. 
The customer also says he had a headache. His wife was also unwell and had been at Mr 
Hs premises on at least one of the visits in March 2020. The customer says he was not 
going to many other places at the time, due to the pandemic and therefore thinks he 
probably caught Covid-19 at Mr Hs offices. 
Many people who were unwell in March 2020 didnt have Covid-19. The symptoms 
described by Mr Hs client are common to other viruses. However, even if I accepted this is enough to establish that it was more likely than not that his symptoms were as a result of 
Covid19, it does not establish that there was an occurrence of the disease at the premises. 
As stated above, for there to be an occurrence of Covid-19, the person would have to have 
been diagnosable at the time they were at the premises. The guidance from the World 
Health Organisation, amongst others, is that some people can become diagnosable one to 
three days before experiencing symptoms of Covid-19. From the evidence provided by the 
client, it was around five days at least between his last visit to Mr Hs premises and the 
development of symptoms. Mr H has said the incubation period can be longer, but I dont 
think this means they would be diagnosable any sooner. I have to reach a decision based on 
what I think is most likely. And I think its more likely than not that, on the basis of when his 
symptoms started, Mr Hs client was not diagnosable when he was last at Mr Hs premises. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I do not consider I can fairly require MSA to meet the claim.
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman