DRN-4367916
The complaint
Mr W has complained about a loan he holds with Elderbridge Limited.
What happened
Mr W took out this loan with Firstplus in joint names with his now ex-wife who Ill refer to as 
Ms D. They borrowed £70,000 over a 20-year term in August 2004 and the loan was 
secured on their property.
They separated and were undergoing divorce proceedings in 2007, and those were finalised 
in 2011 once the financial situation was resolved.
The last payment had been made in February 2007, and so in July 2007 Firstplus made the 
decision to suppress the interest on the account. Ill explain what that means.
Because Mr W and Ms D had been struggling to pay their loan, one particular thing that was 
done to help them was to stop adding interest onto the loan account as otherwise theyd be 
paying interest on interest - known as compound interest - if they didnt keep up their 
payments. Instead Firstplus carried on calculating the interest in the background, as it was 
still due, but as it wasnt applied to the account it didnt attract interest itself. This is known as 
simple interest.
In effect, in order to prevent interest accruing on unpaid interest, Firstplus ring-fenced the 
interest in a separate account, so that it didnt attract further compound interest. This also 
meant any payments Mr W and Ms D made after that point went towards reducing the 
arrears, and then repaying the capital. Ultimately, it meant Mr W and Ms D were charged 
less interest than they would have been otherwise.
To be clear, Im not making any findings about the decision by Firstplus to suppress interest 
on the account, merely explaining how it worked to add context to this complaint.
Following negotiations in court between Mr W and Ms D as part of their divorce, Firstplus 
agreed to accept a £30,000 lump sum from Ms D to remove the charge from the property, 
and for Mr W to then make the payments of around £660 a month on an unsecured basis 
towards the remainder of the debt.
Ms D made her payment in January 2011 and the charge was removed from the property. In 
the meantime, Mr W had started his monthly payments in October 2010.
In March 2011 Mr W wrote to Firstplus to complain. In that he explained the history and said 
he wasnt involved in the detail of the arrangement to get the charge removed. He said hed 
just been asked by the Judge how much he could afford to pay monthly. Mr W detailed his 
complaint as:
A statement of account hadnt been provided.
The monthly direct debit had been taken since October 2011 [sic] but hed not received 
any correspondence from Firstplus.
In January 2011 hed been asked to complete another direct debit mandate without 
explanation.
In February 2011 hed received a letter saying he was behind on his payments, but hed 
made all the payments since October 2010.
When he phoned Firstplus he was told the letter was a mistake and should be ignored.
Hed asked for a statement of account as he didnt know the total amount now owed by 
him and over what period he was expected to pay but hadnt received one.
The original loan agreement must have been set aside, so he should have been 
consulted as to the new agreements length and terms.
He said he urgently required the following items:
A statement of account for the entire period of the loan.
Confirmation of the interest rate that was being charged.
How much was owed and over what period the payments would be made.
Confirmation of whether there was a new agreement.
Firstplus responded a few days later. It said there would be a charge of £3.50 for each 
statement normally, but it had sent the requested statement free of charge this time. It said a 
settlement figure would also be sent.
It also said:
The current rate of interest is 9.5%
The remaining term of the loan is 80 months.
The current outstanding balance is £38,866.91 plus accrued interest of £23,931.03 (Please 
note, £62,797.94 is not a settlement figures this, as stated earlier, will be sent to you under 
separate cover).
Due to the severity of the arrears the account was defaulted on 19 July 2007 and we 
suspended the interest. Interest continues to accrue but has not been applied to the 
account monthly. This means that any payment made will reduce the outstanding balance 
first and you are charged simple interest rather than compound interest.
Please note that the loan account remains under the same reference number and original 
loan agreement with the amendments that loan is no longer a secured loan and the 
transfer of the account into your sole name.
Mr W made 59 payments from October 2010 to August 2015 inclusive totalling around 
£39,170. Of those 59 payments, 53 of them totalling around £35,190 had been made since 
the March 2011 letter saying Mr W owed £38,866 plus accrued interest of £23,931, and that 
interest was being charged at 9.5%.
Since August 2015 the parties have been in discussion, with Mr W saying he wasnt going to 
make any further payments as he considered the loan to have been repaid.
Further complaints were raised in October 2015 and February 2016. The contact notes for 
the 2015 complaint indicate that was resolved over the phone.
The February 2016 complaint was responded to in writing by Elderbridge (as by then the 
loan account had been transferred from Firstplus). The final response letter dated 25 
February 2016 summarised the complaint as:You are unhappy that you did not receive correspondence from FIRSTPLUS regarding 
a complaint raised and request the recordings of telephone calls in October 2015.
You are unhappy with the balance of your loan as the suppressed interest was not part 
of your arrangement.
For the first part Elderbridge said the complaint was noted to have been resolved over the 
phone, but it couldnt retrieve the recording. It apologised and offered £25 compensation. 
On the second part Elderbridge said:
Having reviewed your account, I have been unable to find any evidence to suggest that an 
agreement to only pay back the balance of your loan was made. A letter dated 18 March 
2011 informs you of the suppressed interest on your account and that it is owed. I have 
enclosed this letter for your review.
In light of the above I am unable to uphold this aspect of your complaint. I trust the above 
has adequately explained the reasons for this decision and thank you for providing us with 
this opportunity to assess your concerns.
The letter closed with an explanation that Mr W had six months from the date of the letter to 
refer the complaint to us. If he didnt do so, and there were no exceptional circumstances, 
Elderbridge said that it wouldnt consent to us looking at the complaint.
The contact notes indicate that over the next couple of years Mr W was telling Elderbridge 
that hed referred the 2016 complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service but hadnt heard 
anything back.
In 2021 Mr W raised another complaint. The final response letter dated 10 June 2021 
summarised the complaint as:
The phone line was disconnected after receiving a call from us on 25 May 2021
You are unhappy with the volume of text messages you have received from us
You are disputing the outstanding debt owed on your account
Elderbridge apologised for the first issue. In respect of the text messages it said no payment 
had been made since 3 August 2015, there was no payment arrangement in place to 
address the arrears, and whilst the account remained in the position it is in then Mr W would 
receive calls, text messages and written correspondence. The letter closed that section with 
an explanation that Mr W had six months from the date of the letter to refer the complaint to 
us. If he didnt do so, and there were no exceptional circumstances, Elderbridge said that it 
wouldnt consent to us looking at the complaint.
It then dealt with the third point, saying it had responded to a complaint about that in 
February 2016. It enclosed a further copy of that letter, along with the March 2011 letter. It 
said the time to refer that point to us had elapsed and no further action would be taken. 
Following a call from Mr W in August 2021 Elderbridge said the June 2021 letter had been 
issued to Mr Ws previous address. It apologised for that mistake and provided a copy of the 
June 2021 letter.
The most recent final response letter was issued on 30 September 2022 and summarised 
the complaint as:
You believe you have paid more than you owe.Unhappy with the volume of text messages you have received from us
Elderbridge said that once Ms D had made her lump sum payment that left an outstanding 
balance of around £40,190, and with Mr Ws monthly payments the balance had reduced to 
around £3,380. It said the interest had been suspended in July 2007, and the accrued 
interest balance was around £34,750 which was still due. It said the debt wasnt statute 
barred as Elderbridge had been regularly communicating with Mr W about the outstanding 
debt.
In respect of the text messages, Elderbridge said it had responded to that in the 2021 
complaint.
Mr W referred the complaint to us in October 2022 and it was looked at by one of our 
Investigators. She said the only point we could look at is how Elderbridge chased Mr W 
since 24 August 2021 as the rest of the complaint hadnt been referred to us in time. In 
respect of that point she said Elderbridge hadnt done anything wrong as she felt the number 
of messages werent unreasonable, and she didnt think the nature and tone were 
threatening.
Mr W didnt agree and so the matter was passed to me to decide.
I issued a decision about our jurisdiction in September 2023. In that I said we can only 
consider the text messages sent to Mr W since June 2021 as everything else has been 
referred to us too late under our rules. I explained that Ill only be able to consider the 
complaint about the text messages from the starting point that Mr W owes the money to 
Elderbridge as any complaints about the interest, amount owed and whether the original 
agreement was cancelled and replaced with something else have all been brought to us 
outside of the time limits allowed for under our rules.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. Were not the regulator, nor are we a court of law. Im here to decide whats 
fair and reasonable.
As I explained in my decision about our jurisdiction, my starting point when considering this 
complaint must be that Mr W owes the money to Elderbridge as Im unable to consider his 
complaints that the money isnt owed.
Ive reviewed the text messages that Elderbridge sent to Mr W and Im satisfied theyre not 
inappropriate. The copies Mr W has sent us say Hello, this is Elderbridge, this secure link 
can be used any time at your convenience as an alternative way to make payment. Thank 
you.
As Mr W owed Elderbridge money and wasnt making any payments that seems an entirely 
reasonable message for Elderbridge to have sent him. It wasnt threatening, and the 
messages were sent at reasonable intervals.
I understand that Mr W considers the account as in dispute, but an account cant stay in 
dispute indefinitely as that would be open to abuse, with the potential for disputes being used as a way to get interest and payments frozen, and adverse credit reference information 
stopped. Im not saying that is the case here, Im simply explaining why that isnt a tenable 
option. Elderbridge feels it responded to the complaints and dispute as far as it could, the 
fact Mr W didnt accept its responses doesnt alter that.
I know Mr W feels strongly about this, but its not helpful to keep going over the same 
ground. Elderbridge doesnt have to respond to any further complaints about the same issue. 
Its unfortunate we were unable to look at Mr Ws complaints as he referred them to us too 
late, but that doesnt mean Elderbridge has to carry on dealing with the same complaints.
Having considered everything I dont think Elderbridge did anything wrong here in contacting 
Mr W about the debt and so I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman