DRN-4108360
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Lloyds Bank Plc withdrew his credit card account without giving him 
any notice or reasons for doing so.
What happened
On 3 October 2022, Mr K unsuccessfully tried to use his credit card to purchase flights. He 
contacted Lloyds Bank and was informed that his account had been withdrawn. Unhappy 
with this, Mr K raised a complaint. 
Lloyds Bank told Mr K they withdrew his credit card on 21 July 2022. They said his account 
wasnt closed but theyve removed the facility for him to spend and increase the balance. 
They explained they may cancel or suspend use of the card if they consider it necessary as 
a responsible lender, and this decision had been made in line with the terms and conditions 
of the account.
Mr K referred his complaint to our service. He explained he was travelling abroad and didnt 
have a credit card he could use. He felt he wasnt given a proper answer as to why Lloyds 
Bank had taken this decision despite being a long-standing customer.
Our investigator said hed considered the reasons Lloyds Bank had given to withdrawn Mr 
Ks credit card and was satisfied they hadnt acted unfairly. Mr K disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 13 April 2023, and I made the following findings:
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ks account. This explains that Lloyds 
Bank can cancel or suspend use of the credit card in some circumstances. The 
reason Lloyds Bank have relied on in this case is:
we consider it necessary because as a responsible lender there is or is likely 
to be an unacceptable or increased risk of you not repaying what you owe us. 
This could be because of how you manage this account or other accounts 
you have with us, information we get including from credit reference agencies 
or debt advisors, or us finding that you are bankrupt or have made an 
arrangement with your creditors
Ive also looked at Lloyds Banks internal notes and the credit card statements which 
evidences why they made this decision. Having done so, Im satisfied Lloyds Bank 
havent treated Mr K unfairly in suspending the use of his credit card. This was a 
legitimate lending decision Lloyds Bank were entitled to make in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions also allow Lloyds Bank to end the agreement and close Mr 
Ks account immediately (without notice) if he repeatedly broke the agreement. I can 
see Mr K repeatedly broke the agreement when he failed to make the required 
monthly payments, a number of times, from August 2021 to April 2022. 
Im satisfied Lloyds Bank acted in line with the terms and conditions when they 
decided to end Mr Ks credit card agreement without any notice. So, I cant agree Mr 
K has been treated unfairly.
I appreciate Mr K doesnt feel hes been given proper answers for why Lloyds Bank 
made this decision. I can see Lloyds Bank have given Mr K sufficient reasoning for 
their decision and I cant reasonably expect them to, nor are they obliged to give Mr 
K any more details.
Whilst Lloyds Bank didnt have to give Mr K notice of their decision to suspend or 
cancel his credit card, or ultimately end the agreement, its still reasonable to expect 
that theyd notify Mr K of their decision.
Lloyds Banks system notes show that they decided to withdraw Mr Ks credit card on 
21 July 2022. But I havent seen any evidence to show they sent Mr K any 
correspondence to inform him of their decision. It wasnt until Mr K attempted to use 
his credit card in October 2022 that Lloyds Bank told him theyd decided to withdraw 
his credit card.
I think Mr K wouldve been disappointed and upset about Lloyds Banks decision to 
end his credit card agreement, even if he was informed of their decision sooner. But 
he was adversely impacted by Lloyds Banks poor communication on the matter, as 
he wasnt able to use his credit card to book his flights or use it while he was abroad. 
It also didnt leave him with enough time to mitigate his circumstances or arrange a 
suitable alternative which he couldve done if he was aware sooner.
Its not unusual for people to use a credit card to book flights or travel with one for 
additional protection. If Lloyds Bank had informed Mr K of their decision around July 
2022, I think it couldve avoided the unnecessary distress and inconvenience Mr K 
was caused. 
Also, Lloyds Bank didnt give Mr K correct information in their final response letter. 
They told Mr K that his credit card account hadnt been closed, but theyd removed 
the facility for him to spend and increase the balance. They explained the credit card 
would be closed when he repays his balance.
However, Mr K didnt have an outstanding balance since 26 May 2022, but the credit 
card account wasnt closed until 16 November 2022. Its unclear why Lloyds Bank 
delayed the closure of the credit card account. In any event, I can understand why 
this conflicting information about the balance Mr K owed wouldve been confusing to 
him and made him feel Lloyds Bank had reached the wrong decision.
All things considered, I think the customer service Mr K received from Lloyds Bank 
fell short of what he could rightly expect. Taking into account the impact of the 
communication issues on Mr K, I think Lloyds Bank should pay £100 compensation 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience he was caused.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr K and Lloyds Bank responded to my provisional decision confirming their 
acceptance.
Since there isnt any further information or evidence for me to consider, Im satisfied with the
findings I reached, and I see no reason to deviate from the outcome I explained in my
provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that Lloyds Bank Plc should pay Mr K 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman