DRN-3370137
The complaint
Mrs J has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) wrote to her to inform her that it would 
begin to charge her for her Gold account. She says she was not aware that there was a fee 
for this account as she had always held it for free.
What happened
Mrs J holds a fee-paying Gold account, a feature of the account meant that providing Mrs J 
kept the balance of the account above a certain amount, she would not be charged the 
monthly Gold account fee. This feature of the account is known as a fee waiver. I note 
though that Mrs J says she was unaware of this. 
Mrs J referred her complaint to our service. Initially one of our adjudicators noticed that three 
monthly account fees had been charged before the fee waiver had been removed and she 
decided that these should be refunded. Lloyds responded and explained that the reason that 
these fees had been charged is because the balance of the account was below the fee 
waiver threshold. Our adjudicator reconsidered what Mrs J and Lloyds had said and 
provided and ultimately she felt that Lloyds need not do anything to put matters right.
Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs J has explained that she was never informed about the fact that her Gold account fee 
was being waived and as far as she was aware her account had always been free. I have 
carefully considered this but I think, albeit on balance, that she would have been informed by 
Lloyds when the account was taken out that there would usually be a fee and that this fee 
would be waived if a certain balance was maintained - as after all this would be something 
that would make the account seem attractive. I find it unlikely that Lloyds would sell the 
account saying it was free when the documentation issued about the account clearly 
mentions it has a monthly fee. If this was the case, I would have expected Mrs J to question 
this when she received any documentation that mentioned the monthly account fee.
In terms of Lloyds decision to remove the fee-waiver, this is something that Lloyds is entitled 
to do. It is essentially up to Lloyds to decide what products and services it provides and also 
which ones to discontinue. Therefore, whilst I understand why Mrs J is dissatisfied by this, 
especially as she has been a customer of Lloyds for some time, I am unable to say that 
Lloyds decision to remove this feature of the Gold account is unreasonable.
However, when making such changes to accounts, Lloyds is obliged to give notice to its 
customers. From what Mrs J and Lloyds have provided, Lloyds did give Mrs J reasonable 
notice of the withdrawal of the fee-waiver. 
In relation to the three fees that were charged on the account, I can see that the balance of 
the account fell below the fee waiver threshold. So I am satisfied that they were charged 
correctly.
Therefore, taking everything into account, I dont require Lloyds to do anything further in 
relation to this complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman