DRN-2665526
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1995. The policy was added to 
Mr Rs Barclaycard account when he applied for the card by filling in a postal application 
Barclays sent to his home address.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with our adjudicator and asked 
for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
Mr R mainly complained that he didnt need PPI and he told us that he had never previously 
opted for PPI as it wasnt something he required. Mr R said that his home circumstances 
meant he didnt have to pay any bills if he was off sick.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint for the following reasons.
Ive seen a copy of the application form that Mr R completed in order to take out his 
Barclaycard and the PPI. There were Yes and No tick boxes for PPI. So I think Mr R was 
able to see that having PPI was a matter of choice and he couldve ticked the No box if he 
hadnt wanted PPI. 
Mr R ticked the Yes box to show he wanted to take out the policy. 
So I think Barclays made Mr R aware that the PPI was optional and he made it clear on the 
application form he signed that he wanted to take out the PPI offered.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. But Ive looked carefully at whether it gave him enough clear information so he could 
decide for himself if he wanted to have PPI. And if this didnt happen, Ive thought about 
what difference, if any, this makes overall.
Mr R was eligible for the policy. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover but it doesnt look as if those applied in 
Mr Rs case when he took out his Barclaycard. So, I dont think having more information 
about policy exclusions and limitations that didnt affect Mr R wouldve put him off taking it 
out. 
Mr R told us that he wouldve been able to rely on his employer paying him sick pay for 
between 3 - 6 months. But the policy wouldve paid more than his minimum credit card 
repayments for up to 12 months per claim in the event of accident or sickness  on top of 
any work benefits. As Mr R mightve also had some additional costs if he was too unwell to 
go back to work or disabled, I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
And the policy wouldve also protected Mr Rs credit card repayments if he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work.
The policy couldve cleared the outstanding balance on his Barclaycard if he claimed for the 
full 12 months. 
Mr R doesnt appear to have had any significant other means he couldve relied on to pay his 
Barclaycard if he wasnt working. Whilst Mr R might not have had to pay household bills, he 
would still have had to make his Barclaycard monthly repayments even if he wasnt able to 
work. And relying on family and friends to help out in the event of money problems isnt as 
dependable as taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.
So I think the policy offered him useful cover. 
I dont think Barclays properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might pay out 
if Mr R made a claim. But even if he hadnt fully appreciated how much PPI would actually 
cost on a month to month basis, Mr R chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to  
so he seems to have wanted it. The policy appears to have been affordable for him when he 
took it out  and he couldve cancelled it at any time if his circumstances changed or he 
didnt want to keep paying for it.
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered him, I think it unlikely Mr R wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think hed still have 
taken out the policy.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr R, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
In coming to my decision I've taken into account everything Mr R told us, including his 
comments made in response to our adjudicators view. But all complaints are looked at on 
their own merits. 
And, for the reasons I've explained above, what hes said doesnt affect the outcome of this 
complaint. 
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman