DRN-3045824
The complaint
Miss N complains that TSB Bank plc provided poor service when she disputed a payment 
from her account.
What happened
Miss N bought some goods on-line from a merchant in early September 2020. She paid from 
her TSB account, which was accordingly debited £26.75.
Around seven weeks later, she asked TSB to raise a payment dispute on her behalf. She 
said shed never received the goods she ordered  and paid for.
TSB told Miss N theyd investigate. They also told her theyd refunded her account 
temporarily, pending the outcome of their investigation, so that she wouldnt have to wait to 
get her money back if they were successful in reclaiming the payment from the merchants 
bank.
In late November 2020, TSB advised Miss N theyd completed their investigation. They said 
the merchant had provided proof of delivery of the goods in question, so it wouldnt be 
possible to re-claim the payment. They also said theyd be taking back the temporary refund 
theyd provided to Miss N whilst their investigation was on-going.
On 25 November, Miss N complained to TSB about this. She thought the service provided to 
her by TSBs disputes team was poor.
TSB provided a final response to Miss Ns complaint on 8 December 2020. They said they 
had no chance of re-claiming the payment given the evidence provided by the merchant. 
And they said they were clear that the refund theyd provided to Miss N in early November 
2020 was only temporary. 
They also said they couldnt stop the process of taking back the temporary refund  which 
would result in the £26.75 being taken back on 10 December 2020. But as a gesture of 
goodwill  and on this occasion only  theyd decided to credit Miss Ns account with £26.75 
to cover the amount they were about to take back. 
In other words, TSB were going to cover Miss Ns losses on this occasion. The £26.75 
payment into Miss Ns account was made on 8 December 2020  two days before TSBs 
process was due to take back the temporary refunds for the same amount.
Miss N wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. She says she didnt 
get the final response letter from TSB in good time (she chased TSB for a response to her 
original complaint on 15 December 2020). She thought the £26.75 credited to her account 
on 8 December was compensation for poor service, not a payment to cover her losses. And 
when the temporary refund was reclaimed on 10 December 2020, it caused her to go into 
overdraft.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think TSB had done anything wrong. Miss N 
disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will disappoint Miss N but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
In late October 2020, Miss N asked TSB to investigate  and reclaim - the payment made 
from her account in September 2020. 
They investigated the matter in a timely fashion  the outcome was made clear to Miss N 
around four weeks after shes raised the dispute.
Given the evidence provided by the merchant  proof of delivery from Royal Mail - there was 
no prospect that TSB could recover the payment from the merchants bank.
Weve seen copies of TSBs communications with Miss N. When they provided the 
temporary refund in early November 2020, they were very clear that it was only temporary  
and that they would take it back if they werent able to recover the money from the 
merchants bank.
In late November, when they informed Miss N about the outcome of their investigation, they 
were very clear that they would be taking the temporary refund back (as they were entitled to 
do).
So, I cant see any evidence at all that TSB provided poor service to Miss N during this time. 
They were absolutely clear with her about what they were doing. They carried out their 
investigation in a timely manner. And the outcome of that investigation was entirely 
reasonable  given the evidence provided by the merchant, they werent ever going to be 
able to get Miss Ns money back.
When they received Miss Ns complaint  in late November  they responded reasonably 
quickly. They sent the final response letter to Miss N less than two weeks later. The 
Financial Conduct Authoritys rules, which govern how such complaints are handled, allows 
eight weeks for a response to a complaint.
And although they were under no obligation at all to do so, they decided in all the 
circumstances to effectively pay themselves for a refund of the £26.75 Miss N spent on the 
goods she says she didnt receive.
TSB posted their final response to Miss N rather than send it by email. They say this was 
because there was some confusion about her email address  the complaint came from a 
different email address than the one they had on file for her and they couldnt contact her to 
verify which address to use.
This may have meant Miss N didnt get that response until later due to delays in the post. 
So, she didnt know at the time that TSB were making a payment on 8 December to cover 
the reclaiming of the temporary refunds on 10 December.
That is unfortunate, although delays in the post arent TSBs responsibility. But I think Miss N 
might have known  given that the amounts matched exactly  that the payment she received on 8 December was most likely a refund for her payment rather than compensation 
for poor service.
In any case, I cant see that Miss N was disadvantaged in any way by this. She went into a 
small overdraft for a very short period of time. And her statements indicate she wasnt 
charged a fee. And the £26.75 TSB reclaimed didnt push Miss N into overdraft because 
theyd already (two days previously) paid that same amount into her account.
In summary, I can see why Miss N might have been slightly confused if she hadnt received 
TSBs final response before the transactions on her account on 8 and 10 December. But any 
confusion wasnt TSBs fault - and was solely the result of TSBs generous gesture in 
refunding the £26.75 payment for goods which the merchant proved had been delivered. 
Miss N was also concerned about the service she received when she chased TSB on 15 
December 2020 about the response to her original complaint. Weve seen copies of the chat 
between Miss N and TSBs agent at that time. The agent is empathetic, courteous and clear 
about what shes going to do to refer Miss Ns queries to the appropriate team, so I cant 
agree TSBs service at this point was poor.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman