DRN-4489397
The complaint
Miss S complains that Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa) irresponsibly granted her a fixed sum  
loan agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In November 2021, Miss S took out a loan with Zopa. Under the terms of the fixed sum loan 
agreement, Miss S was borrowing £9,000 and paying it back by way of 48 payments of 
£332.05.
Miss S says Zopa didnt complete adequate affordability checks and that she had already 
taken out a high level of debt elsewhere. So, Zopa ought to have seen the agreement was 
unlikely to have been affordable. 
Zopa didnt agree. It said that it carried out an adequate assessment before approving the 
loan which included using information provided by a credit reference agency. 
Our Investigator reviewed the complaint and upheld it. She considered that Zopa hadnt 
completed proportionate checks or made a fair lending decision about the loan being 
affordable. 
Zopa didnt agree and said its checks were reasonable and proportionate. 
As Zopa has disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zopa will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When Miss S applied for the agreement, she told Zopa she was earning around £81,000 
annually from self-employed income. Zopa used the credit reference agency to verify this.  
She also said she was paying monthly rent of £1,000. Based on this Zopa calculated that 
Miss S ought to have had a monthly disposable income of around £2,450. 
 
Zopa also looked at Miss Ss credit history. The check didnt show any adverse markings on 
her credit file, such as arrears, and there was no recent history of defaults or having a county 
court judgment registered against her. It did, however, show that Miss S already had had 
some a significant amount of existing credit, at that point totalling around £28,000 by way of 
loan and credit card debt. So Zopa needed to take this into consideration when making its 
lending decision. 
Miss S was self-employed and receiving a variable level of income each month. Given that 
this was a relatively substantial loan that would be repayable over four years, I think Zopa 
should have asked Miss S for more details about her other committed expenditure and daily 
living costs, in addition to the monthly rent details she provided. Although Zopa completed a 
credit check, this wont have given any meaningful indication of what these were. So I dont 
think Zopas checks can be said to be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive also seen that Miss S planned to use the loan funds for debt consolidation purposes. But 
I agree with our investigator that this would still leave Miss S with a substantial amount of 
debt, having cleared less than half of her existing debt commitments. And its notable that 
her recent borrowing history showed that she had applied for and taken out two loans each 
of £9,000 and had opened a new credit card, in addition to the two she was already using. 
So, whilst Miss S may not have been increasing her overall debt burden, she was still 
committed to a long repayment period with the possibility that she would be able to use the 
available credit balances again should she consider it necessary. 
This suggests very strongly that had it carried out better proportionate checks before making 
its lending decision, Zopa would have been in a much better position to understand more 
about Miss Ss financial situation. I cant know for sure exactly what Zopa would have found 
out if it had asked at the time but, in the absence of anything else, I think its reasonable to 
place significant weight on the information contained in Miss Ss bank statements as to what 
would most likely have been disclosed. 
As Ive mentioned, Miss Ss monthly income stream was variable, reflecting the fact that she 
was self-employed. So whilst for some months she might be able to meet her existing credit 
commitments, during other months she would be financially stretched. I therefore have 
concerns as to whether the on paper disposable figure relied on by Zopa would be 
sustainable over a long repayment period. 
A further factor is Miss Ss heavy reliance on her £4,000 overdraft facility. Whilst the use of 
an overdraft does not in itself necessarily denote a worsening level of financial difficulty, I 
consider that the level of usage and reliance Miss S placed on it demonstrates that it was 
unrealistic to rely on the figure for disposable income without making a more comprehensive 
enquiry into Miss Ss actual financial circumstances. 
I therefore agree that the bank statements suggest that Miss Ss financial situation was 
much more volatile and there appears to have been at least one further item of borrowing 
which didnt appear in the credit report, with payments being made from time to time of 
variable sums up to £1,400. I am not suggesting that Zopa was wrong to rely on the 
information set out in the credit check. But I think Miss Ss self-employed status and variable 
income, combined with her high level of existing credit commitments, was more than enough 
to require that Zopa carry out a more in-depth review of her finances in order to establish 
that a reasonable and proportionate level of checks had been conducted. 
It follows that based on what Ive seen, Miss S didnt have enough consistent and disposable 
income to sustainably afford the new borrowing she was seeking from Zopa. I think Zopa ought to have done more to look into Miss Ss financial situation at the time of the 
application, especially given her self-employed status and credit history. Had it done so I 
think it would have seen that Miss S was already getting into financial difficulty and there 
was a real risk that she would be unable to meet the monthly repayments without 
experiencing further deterioration in her financial situation. Zopa therefore didnt act fairly by 
approving the finance.
Ive seen that Zopa has already taken steps to accommodate Miss S by agreeing nominal 
payment arrangements earlier this year. I would urge Zopa to continue to treat Miss S with 
appropriate forbearance as far as possible with the aim of agreeing a sustainable repayment 
arrangement. 
Putting things right  what Zopa needs to do
Miss S had the use of the funds as a result of this lending. So I think its fair that she repays 
the capital amount she borrowed. But Miss S has paid interest on a loan that shouldnt have 
been brought about. So, as I dont think Zopa ought to have approved the lending, I dont 
think its fair for it to be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. 
Miss S should therefore only have to pay the original loan amount, being £9,000. Anything 
Miss S has paid in excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Miss Ss complaint Zopa should therefore do the following:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. Any
payments made by Miss S should then be deducted from the new starting balance.
a. If the payments Miss S has made total more than the amount she was originally 
lent, then any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to her, 
together with 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the 
date they were paid by Miss S to the date the complaint is settled.
b. If after the adjustments have been made there is still a balance to pay Zopa should 
discuss arranging a suitable/affordable payment arrangement with Miss S
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file as a result of the 
loan once any outstanding balance has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa to take off tax from this interest. Zopa must give 
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Miss S asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Zopa Bank Limited to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman