DRN-4484895
The complaint
Mr M complains Revolut Ltd unfairly closed his account and failed to raise a chargeback for 
a purchase he made. He wants Revolut to reimburse him for the payment he made and pay 
him compensation for the poor customer service he received and closing his account.
What happened
In May 2023, Mr M asked Revolut to raise a chargeback for a large payment he made 
through a well-known online marketplace. He said hed ordered five high end laptops with 
the intention of reselling them. But once hed received them, hed changed his mind. So, he 
returned the laptops, unopened and in pristine condition.
Mr M said he had asked for a refund from the online marketplace and after not receiving it he 
decided to raise the chargeback. He provided Revolut with paperwork relating to his order, 
which included emails from the online marketplace indicating it was processing Mr Ms 
refund having received the items, a post office receipt showing the laptops were sent back 
and mail tracking information. Mr M told Revolut hed complied with the returns processes, 
so he didnt understand why he hadnt received his money back.
Revolut looked at Mr Ms chargeback claim. It also decided to review how Mr M was using 
his account and blocked him from accessing it. Following this Revolut decided to close 
Mr Ms account and wrote to him in July 2023 to let him know it had closed his account 
immediately. In response, Mr M complained. He asked Revolut to explain why it had closed 
his account and had failed to pursue his chargeback. Eventually, Revolut told him that it 
wasnt going to defend his chargeback claim and had closed his account in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account.
Unhappy with this response, Mr M brought his complaint to our service. He said he has 
provided all the evidence needed for Revolut to process his chargeback. And he doesnt 
understand why Revolut has failed to contest the claim with the online retailer. He has 
argued that he has spent a significant amount of money and it is important that he is 
refunded. He also wants Revolut to pay him between £500 and £1,000 compensation for the 
trouble and upset the whole matter has caused him and reopen his account.
An investigator at our service decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. They found Revolut 
has important legal and regulatory obligations, and it was reasonable for Revolut to block 
and close Mr Ms account. The investigator also said Revolut had dealt with Mr Ms 
chargeback claim fairly.
Mr M wasnt happy with the investigators findings. He said Revolut havent explained why 
they are not pursuing his chargeback claim and hes pointed to all the information he has 
submitted to support his claim, which he says was overwhelming in his favour, so his 
chargeback claim should be successful. He also said he hasnt done anything wrong, so 
Revolut has closed his account unfairly.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
Before issuing my decision, I asked Mr M and Revolut to provide some more information 
about the review of Mr Ms account and the  chargeback claim. I thank both parties for their 
submissions, which Ive considered when reaching my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr M was disappointed by the investigators opinion and I can see that he has 
provided a detailed response to what she said about his complaint. Id like to reassure 
Mr M that Ive considered the whole file and whats hes said. But Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because I 
failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. No discourtesy is intended by me in 
taking this approach. 
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Revolut 
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. This means I 
havent been able to share a lot of detail with Mr M, but Id like to reassure him that I have 
considered everything that hes told us.
Ill start by setting out some context for why Revolut reviewed Mr Ms account. Revolut are 
strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory 
obligations. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from 
financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime. Theyre also required to carry out 
ongoing monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to 
restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry out their review. The 
terms of the account also permit Revolut to block an account. This means Revolut is entitled 
to block and review an account at any time.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Revolut to block Mr Ms account. Revolut has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in doing so Revolut were complying 
with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, whilst I accept, the banks actions caused Mr M 
inconvenience and upset when it blocked his account, I cant say Revolut did anything wrong 
and treated him unfairly in doing so. 
I understand of course why Mr M wants to know the exact reasons behind Revoluts actions. 
And I can see that Mr M sent numerous s messages to Revolut via its in app chat facility  
asking Revolut to explain itself on more than one occasion. But Revolut doesnt disclose to 
its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. And its under no obligation to tell 
Mr M the reasons behind the account review and block, as much as hed like to know. So, I 
cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr M this information. And it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to require it to do so. 
Revoluts decision to close Mr Ms account was made shortly after it reviewed his account. It 
might be helpful to explain that following a review, banks and financial businesses 
sometimes decide to close an account. They are entitled to decide for themselves whether to 
do business or continue doing business with a customer. Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to 
continue providing accounts and providing an account to a customer is a commercial 
decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. Thats because it has the commercial 
freedom to decide who it wants as a customer. And unless theres a good reason to do so, 
this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer. But they shouldnt decline 
to continue to provide an account without proper reason, for instance of unfair bias or 
unlawful discrimination. And they must treat new and existing customers fairly.
Revolut have relied on the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account when closing it. The 
terms and conditions outline that Revolut can close a customers account with 60 days 
notice, and in certain circumstances they can close an account immediately. Here they 
closed Mr Ms account immediately. For Revolut to act fairly here they needed to meet the 
criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all 
the evidence Im satisfied that Revolut did. So, it was entitled to close the account as its 
already done and end its relationship with Mr M. This means I wont be asking Revolut to 
reopen Mr Ms account.
Mr M says Revolut ought to have raised a chargeback and been able to defend whatever the 
merchant said in response to his claim based on all the information he provided. I can see 
that Revolut has asked Mr M about the refund and from looking at his account statements 
that Mr M has received several refunds from merchants over the time he had the account  
which includes the online retailer which is involved in this complaint.  
I should explain that Revolut doesnt always have to raise a chargeback. There may be a 
variety of reasons why it doesnt. One of those reasons could be it doesnt think there is a 
reasonable prospect of the chargeback succeeding. Or it might think raising a chargeback 
would be inappropriate considering the individual circumstances of a customer and their 
account. I have carefully considered the outcome of Revoluts review and its basis, as well 
as it reasons for closing Mr Ms account. And, when weighed together, Im satisfied Revoluts 
decision not to pursue Mr Ms chargeback claim was reasonable. So, I cant say it has 
treated Mr M unfairly when it declined his chargeback claim.
Finally, Ive reviewed how Revolut communicated with Mr M throughout the review of his 
account and after hes raised his chargeback claim. Ive looked at the online chat responses 
Revolut gave regarding everything. The messages Mr M received were often standardised 
and repeated. But I doubt Mr M would have been satisfied by Revoluts response even if it 
had been clearer about what had happened with the chargeback. So, I think its likely that 
Mr M would still have experienced much of the same frustration and upset that he went onto 
experience. So, Im not going to ask Revolut to do anything to resolve this aspect of Mr Ms 
complaint.
In summary, for the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman