DRN-3878249
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA), trading as John Lewis 
Insurance, declined a subsidence claim on her home insurance.
Mrs W and a relative are named policyholders on their RSA policy, so any claim or complaint 
is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Mrs W, Ill refer mainly to Mrs W from here onward.
Mrs W bought her policy through an insurance intermediary and most of her correspondence 
has been with the intermediary rather than directly with RSA. For the avoidance of doubt, 
any reference to RSA includes its agents, including the intermediary.
What happened
Mrs W had an RSA home insurance policy, bought through an intermediary. In August 2021, 
she discovered bathroom tiles lifting and cracks in some internal walls. She made a claim to 
RSA under her home insurance. 
RSA asked Mrs W to provide a cause of damage report from a specialist so it could assess 
her claim. Mrs W instructed an expert to do this. The expert visited Mrs Ws home in 
September 2021 but didnt send her its report until April 2022.  
RSA considered the claim. As part of its assessment, it instructed its own expert to inspect 
the damage. This expert concluded that while there was internal damage, the external walls 
and foundations of her home were largely unaffected. It said two cracks in the external wall 
werent due to subsidence but were instead either lintel failure and/or thermal shrinkage. 
Based on this, RSA told Mrs W that the damage to her home was excluded from cover and 
declined the claim. 
Mrs W was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service. She believes the 
damage to her walls, floor, windows, and door frames was caused by subsidence and 
covered by her policy. She wants RSA to settle her claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
evidence supported RSAs decision to decline the claim. He was satisfied that there were 
two relevant policy exclusions which meant the damage wasnt covered by her policy. He 
thought it was fair for RSA to rely on these exclusions when it declined the claim.
Mrs W disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like most polices, Mrs Ws cover only makes RSA liable for damage caused by certain 
insured events listed in her policy. Mrs Ws policy documents show shes covered for 
damage caused by Subsidence or heave (policy booklet, page 8). 
However, insurance policies often include examples of damage that isnt covered. In this 
case, RSA told Mrs W two exclusions for subsidence claims listed in her policy applied:
Damage to solid floors or damage caused by solid floors moving, unless the 
foundations of the outside walls of [the home] are damaged by the same cause and 
at the same time. In other words, this type of damage isnt covered unless theres 
damage to the foundations.
Damage to any part of the buildings by Subsidence as a result of escaping water. 
In other words, subsidence caused by leaking drains isnt covered.
I have to decide whether the exclusions should apply and if it was fair for RSA to rely on 
them. I note that Mrs W believes the first exclusion is very unusual. 
First, Ive reviewed the expert reports provided by both parties to try to understand what 
caused the damage to Mrs Ws home.
Mrs Ws expert identified:
Cracks in the external brickwork at the rear of the home, a movement crack below 
the front bay window, and stress relief cracks above the bay window arch.
A movement crack at the staircase, plus stress relief cracks at the utility and kitchen 
walls, landing wall, bathroom tiles, two door frames, and above window frames.
External brickwork in poor condition and affected by freeze/thaw action.
Evidence of standing water at ground level to the rear of the home, with poor 
drainage and damage to hard landscaping.
He concluded there were clear signs of movement in the building due to water causing 
either heave or settlement. He also said the hard landscaping (for example, paths or 
external drainage systems) had moved, causing cracking due to heave and or subsidence. 
He recommended that a full drain survey be undertaken to make sure that they were in good 
order, the building should be stabilised, and the external brickwork maintained/repaired.
I dont think the report by Mrs Ws expert shows the damage was caused by subsidence. He 
mentions subsidence only in relation to the hard landscaping outside the home and I dont 
see any justification for that conclusion. He also seems to think drainage issues were mainly 
to blame. Mrs W commissioned a drainage report in August/September 2022. This showed 
that the drains werent leaking but were just blocked. 
RSAs expert (11 June 2022) identified broadly the same damage, as well as a sloped floor 
in the kitchen. She concluded:
The internal damage to walls and flooring in the lounge, kitchen, and utility room 
appears to be the result of subsidence, possibly due to drains leakage. 
However, the damage to external walls wasnt due to subsidence because the 
pattern and nature of the cracks is not consistent with foundation movement. 
Instead, they were due to inadequate support from the lintel.
As there was no evidence of subsidence affecting the external walls, the internal 
damage was excluded from the policy cover.
I think RSAs report is a little unclear in parts. For example, it says the internal damage 
appears to be the result of subsidence but the external damage is not the result of subsidence. Its experts suggestion that the internal damage was due to drains leakage 
was also proved incorrect by the drainage report. So there doesnt seem to be any clear 
explanation for the cause of the damage to Mrs Ws walls and floor.
However, the key issue here is that RSA declined Mrs Ws claim based on two policy 
exclusions. As with any insurance claim, if RSA relies on a policy exclusion it must show us 
that the exclusion applies. In this case, I think it has.
Subsidence is damage caused to a property because of movement of the ground 
underneath the foundations, so Id expect to see damage to the foundations in this type of 
claim. While I think RSAs report is unclear regarding the cause of damage, it clearly states 
that the pattern and nature of the external cracks arent consistent with foundation 
movement. I think the photos  by both experts  support this finding. Given this, Im 
satisfied that the exclusion applies.
Mrs W believes this exclusion is unusual. Ive reviewed other home insurance policies 
covering subsidence and this type of exclusion appears to be relatively common. Similarly, 
most policies now exclude subsidence damage under the escape of water peril. So I dont 
agree with her on this point.
I think it might take a more detailed survey  perhaps by a subsidence specialist  to 
definitively identify the cause of damage. If Mrs W wants to get this type of survey, I think it 
would be reasonable for RSA to review it and reassess the claim. 
But, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think RSAs reliance on the policy exclusions was 
reasonable and its decision to decline the claim was fair. It follows that I dont uphold the 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman