DRN-3265871
The complaint
Ms M complains about the service she received from National Savings and Investments 
(NS&I) in particular various issues she had with accessing her Premium Bonds from 
overseas and transferring funds from her account.
Ms M is also unhappy an email she sent was forwarded to someone outside of the business.
What happened
Ms M has lived overseas for a number of years. Before moving Ms M had an investment in 
Premium Bonds. 
Ms M says she needed to access her account in October 2020. When she tried to log into 
the account the password didnt work. NS&I sent a temporary password by post which Ms M 
says took six weeks to arrive. The new password didnt work either and so Ms M contacted 
NS&I to explain she needed another temporary password sending to her.  
Ms M says she contacted NS&I many times by email and by telephone to try and gain 
access to her account which, Ms M says, she was unable to access for a period of five 
months. 
During the time Ms M was unable to access the funds held in NS&I she says she had to use 
her specialist savings account which is tax free. Because of the way the account is set up 
any money she withdraws cannot simply be replaced. 
Ms M says she did eventually receive the money she requested but it took a long time for 
her to sort out. Ms M says NS&I then transferred a further £5,000 from her account after she 
told them she no longer required it. Ms M says the money was transferred into her UK bank 
account and was not accruing any interest while she was trying to return it to her NS&I 
account.
Ms M says when trying to reinstate the additional £5,000 back into her NS&I account she 
was told she needed to provide certified documents to prove her identity. These documents 
were not accepted online and so she had to arrange for them to be posted. And she says 
this caused further delays and increased costs for her in terms of telephone calls and 
postage. 
Ms M says she would like compensation for the interest she has lost on the money she had 
to access to pay a contractor for work she was having done, and wants this calculated from 
when she took money out of her specialist savings account, so $40,000 in December 2020, 
and $2,000 in February 2021. Ms M also wants compensation for the further issues caused 
by NS&I such as £5,000 being transferred into another account when she had already 
confirmed she did not require the transfer any longer, and not being able to reset the 
password online. 
Ms M complained to NS&I on a number of occasions regarding the issues she had. NS&I 
said it accepted there were two transfers which Ms M had requested which were delayed or 
not processed, but the transfers from 2020 were processed on time. It didnt accept it was 
responsible for all of the costs incurred by Ms M. It said the problem with the password was 
due to Ms M not being able to pass the security questions. And since she would have had to 
contact NS&I to obtain a new password anyway it didnt accept it was responsible for all of 
the telephone calls made. NS&I made payments to cover lost interest, calls, and postage; as 
well as compensation for the processing delay of £175. Ms M wasnt happy with the 
response received from NS&I so she referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. She said she didnt think 
NS&I acted unfairly in respect of the password or asking for evidence of identity to process a 
deposit. The investigator said NS&I had delayed the processing of the withdrawal request 
dated 30/01/2021 but it had backdated the bond to ensure any entitlement to prizes was not 
lost. NS&I also reimbursed Ms M for postage and some telephone calls made to it. NS&I 
paid Ms M £175 to reflect the failure in service and the investigator thought this was fair and 
reasonable to recognise the trouble and upset caused. 
Ms M disagreed so the matter has been passed to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think what NS&I has already done to put things right for Ms M is fair and 
reasonable. Ill explain why I think this is the case. It might help for me to explain where a 
business accepts it did something wrong, we would expect it to put the customer in the 
position they would be in if that mistake hadnt taken place. 
I know Ms M will be disappointed by my decision and I also appreciate her frustration in 
trying to deal with this matter. But that doesnt mean NS&I is at fault for what took place for 
the reasons explained below. 
Ms M has said NS&I should allow customers to change their passwords online or by email 
as other businesses do. My role is to consider the circumstances of her complaint rather 
than comment on NS&Is policies. I am not able to direct NS&I to change its policies. Those 
are commercial decisions its entitled to make. But I can look at whether, in following its 
policies, it treated Ms M fairly.
Account access
Ms M says she didnt have access to her account for a period of five months. On 26 October 
2020 Ms M was unable to answer the security questions online and so her password was 
suspended. Ms M contacted NS&I who advised her to complete an online form to make the 
payment request which she did on 27 October 2020. The payment was processed on 28 
October 2020. Ms M completed a further online form for payment on 22 November 2020 
which was processed by NS&I the following day. In the period from October 2020 to 
February 2021 Ms M was able to request payments online and those payments were 
processed for her by NS&I. I do accept there were some periods where access was 
prevented owing to incorrect password attempts and failure to answer security questions. 
But I dont think this was NS&Is fault. 
NS&I posted the temporary password to Ms M at her home address which is overseas. So 
there were delays with posting. And so while I can appreciate this would have been 
frustrating I dont think NS&I can reasonably be held at fault for it. Password 
I have looked at the information provided to me by both Ms M and NS&I. When attempting to 
log into her account, Ms M failed the security questions to grant access and so her password 
was suspended. So Ms M requested a temporary password. Ms M says she didnt realise 
the password would only be sent by post, and not online or by email. NS&I say there would 
have been a message explaining this which would pop up prior to Ms M clicking the 
forgotten security answers link on the page. 
While waiting for the temporary password to arrive Ms M attempted to access her account 
again on 2 December 2020. Unfortunately authentication failed five times due to an incorrect 
password. This is because the password had been suspended in October and a new 
password now applied to the account, which Ms M didnt receive until a few days later. When 
Ms M tried to access her account using the temporary password she was unable to because 
that password was suspended due to the failed access attempt on 2 December 2021. So 
even though I can see how frustrating this would have been for Ms M I cant say this is due 
to NS&I doing something wrong. 
I can see the password was received and used successfully from February 2021. 
Unauthorised payment transfer 
Ms M says £5,000 was paid into her UK bank account but this payment was not authorised. 
Ms M completed an online payment form to transfer funds from her NS&I account on 30 
January 2021. Ms M says she wanted those funds in February. Unfortunately NS&I did not 
process the payment request for February as requested. And so on 4 February 2021 Ms M 
completed another online form but this time she asked for the money to be paid into one of 
her other accounts. The payment request was not processed since the receiving bank 
account was not recognised by NS&I as a usual nominated bank account. 
At the same time Ms M was told the payment request dated 30 January 2021 would be 
processed but would be paid in March rather than February as she had requested. And so 
Ms M told NS&I she no longer required the payment dated 4 February. Unfortunately by the 
time the cancellation was picked up by the payments team it had already processed the 
February request. And so while I cant say the payment was unauthorised I can see it was 
paid after Ms M told NS&I she no longer required it. NS&I paid Ms M the loss of interest for 
the delay in processing the original payment request in January 2021. 
When transferring the additional £5,000 back to her NS&I an evidence of identity check was 
triggered and so NS&I requested some documents from Ms M. Ms M attempted to upload 
the necessary documents but these were not accepted as NS&I said the documents were 
not correctly certified. So Ms M posted the documents to NS&I instead. I appreciate the extra 
time this would have taken when Ms M was trying to return the additional funds however 
NS&I have said the evidence is required in order for them to fulfil their regulatory obligations. 
And on that basis I am not able to say NS&I have done something wrong here or acted 
unfairly. 
Withdrawals from alternative savings account 
Ms M says as a result of not being able to access her NS&I account she had to withdraw the 
money from her specialist savings account. And so she would like NS&I to repay her the 
interest she lost as a result of the withdrawal. In respect of the money withdrawn from the specialist account, I dont think those 
withdrawals can reasonably be attributed to lack of access to the premium bonds. Ms M tried 
to transfer money from the NS&I account in October 2020 when the password was 
suspended. The money was withdrawn from the specialist account in December 2020 and 
February 2021 when Ms M was able to, and did, access the funds in the NS&I account. So I 
dont think there is a link between Ms M having to access her specialist savings account and 
anything NS&I did wrong in the handling of her premium bonds account. 
Data Breach
Ms M raised a concern to us regarding her complaint email being forwarded to someone 
outside of NS&I. NS&I accepted the email was sent to the wrong person and paid Ms M £30 
to reflect this. Ms M is able to contact the ICO if she wishes but I think NS&Is compensation 
for the mistake is fair and reasonable. Although the email contained some personal 
information, exposure appears to have been limited and the error promptly reported by the 
unintended recipient, with no further negative consequences. Nevertheless I can see this 
would have been upsetting for Ms M especially in the context of the wider issues she was 
experiencing at the time. So Im pleased Ms M was offered a modest sum to reflect the 
distress caused to her. 
Customer service
I have considered the service Ms M has received from NS&I and its clear she has been left 
upset and frustrated with the way she has been dealt with. I can see, for example, she has 
had to make numerous calls and send a number of emails, to try and resolve the issues she 
was having. And NS&I have acknowledged there have been delays with some of the 
payments of Ms Ms funds. 
I appreciate the experience would have been frustrating and Mr M feels she has lost time 
and money. But NS&I has apologised for its handling of the matter and have sought to put 
things right by paying compensation and interest. It has also agreed to reinstate the bonds to 
the date the funds were withdrawn, making them eligible to win prizes from the April 2021 
prize draw. And having considered the circumstances I think the amount offered by NS&I is 
proportionate to the distress and inconvenience caused, so I dont think any further award is 
warranted. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Ms M but I wont be asking NS&I 
to take any further action.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given Im satisfied that what National Savings and Investments has already 
done to put things right is fair and reasonable. So I dont require it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman