DRN-2664218
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs S have complained that they were not sent a copy of the Homebuyers Report 
(HBR)  by the surveyors who carried out the property valuation on behalf of National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). 
After moving into the property they discovered defects in the property which theyd been 
unaware of  but which they would have known about if theyd received the HBR. They are 
asking NatWest to compensate them for the cost of remedying these defects, which they 
estimate at almost £58,000.
What happened
Mr F and Mrs S were purchasing a property with the assistance of a mortgage from 
NatWest. The bank required a valuation of the property for mortgage purposes and its 
process is to offer the borrowers the option to commission a more detailed report  either a 
HBR or a full structural survey  which the surveyor will carry out at the same time inspecting 
the property for as the banks valuation. The banks standard valuation fee was £277 and the 
fee for the HBR was £511.
Mr F and Mrs S opted for the HBR  which is not as detailed as a full structural survey, but is 
nevertheless a significantly more detailed inspection of the property than a mortgage 
valuation, and is set out in a format prescribed by the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors (RICS). At the same time as instructing the surveyor to carry out the valuation, 
NatWest confirmed the instruction for the HBR and, because NatWest does not carry out its 
own property inspections, contacted Legal & General, which, in turn, instructed an 
independent surveyor from a firm I will refer to as C. This firm is independent of, and 
unconnected with, NatWest.
C carried out both the valuation and the inspection for the HBR in February 2020. Before the 
inspection, Mr F was in contact with C with instructions on how to gain access to the 
property, and with some information about the building. 
The valuation was sent to NatWest, which in turn sent a copy to Mr F and Mrs S as a 
courtesy. However, Mr F and Mrs S were not sent a copy of the HBR from C. 
Mr F and Mrs S completed on their purchase on 29 May 2020 and after moving in 
discovered defects which had not been apparent to them when they viewed the property. Mr 
F and Mrs S contacted C about this and at this point were told that, due to a computer error, 
theyd not been sent a copy of the HBR. They received this on 1 June 2020, and 
immediately complained to C. A week later they complained to NatWest.
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response, the bank explained that it only 
required a mortgage valuation and so if a customer commissioned a more detailed report, 
this was between the customer and the surveyor  and the bank would not be sent a copy of 
the HBR. 
In its response to Mr F and Mrs S, C acknowledged its mistake and offered compensation of 
£234, which is the difference in the cost between the standard valuation fee of £277 and the 
HBR fee of £511.
Dissatisfied with NatWests response, Mr F and Mrs S complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be 
upheld. He was satisfied that responsibility for sending the HBR to Mr F and Mrs S lay with C 
and so NatWest wasnt responsible for them not receiving a copy of it.
Mr F and Mrs S didnt accept the investigators findings. Mr F, who has dealt with the 
complaint throughout, has raised a number of questions about what he perceives to be 
regulatory breaches by NatWest. He says his complaint has nothing to do with not receiving 
the HBR, but is that NatWest failed to let the solicitors acting for Mr F and Mrs S on their 
purchase know that theyd ordered a HBR. It was therefore impossible for their legal 
advisers to know theyd commissioned the HBR. NatWest also failed to tell Mr F and Mrs S 
that it wouldnt explain this to the solicitors, or tell them that there would be two reports and 
they needed to check theyd received the second one.
Mr F asked the investigator to comment on whether he thought NatWests process of 
hiding the HBR was fair.
The investigator clarified that all NatWest needed was the standard valuation and that it 
wasnt the banks responsibility to send the HBR to Mr F and Mrs S. He also explained that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a regulator and so, although he noted the points 
raised about what Mr F said were regulatory failings, this wasnt something the investigator, 
or the Financial Ombudsman Service, could become involved with.
Mr F asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said our rules seem to trap 
consumers in an endless loop with no recourse and that someone needs to look at this and 
take a view about the validity of some of our internal policies. 
Mr F reiterated that he and Mrs S were misled by NatWest in relation to the information they 
were given about what they would receive. He also said that theyd paid £511 for the HBR 
and as they didnt receive it until long after it was of any use, they didnt think it was fair for 
NatWest to charge them anything for it.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision on the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am grateful to Mr F for the very detailed submissions hes made, and I confirm Ive read 
everything he and NatWest have sent us. 
I will begin by explaining that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not a regulator and we 
dont police NatWest. I have no power to dictate to NatWest how it should run its business. 
So although Ive noted the questions Mr F has raised about whether or not NatWest has 
breached its regulatory obligations, thats not something that is with my remit. 
NatWests mortgage documents are in standard format approved by the regulator. There is 
nothing in these that gives me any reason to believe NatWest is committing systemic 
regulatory breaches in relation to its mortgage documentation.We can consider a complaint by Mr F and Mrs S about NatWest in relation to regulated 
activities. The list of what constitutes a regulated activity is long but specific to this complaint 
the regulated activity is lending money secured on land, and any activity ancillary to that, 
such as administration. 
The only part of the property inspection process that is ancillary to the regulated activity of 
lending money secured on land is the mortgage valuation, carried out for NatWests own 
purposes. NatWest had a duty to ensure that a suitably-qualified surveyor was instructed to 
carry out the mortgage valuation, and that is what happened; the surveyor who inspected the 
property is a Member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
I can see that the valuation report which Mr F and Mrs S received comes with a document 
headed Important Notice to Applicants. It goes on to state that the valuation report is solely 
for the banks purposes, to assess whether it is suitable security. Importantly, It says:
The report is not a building survey or report on condition and may not mention 
defects that may be important to you or which may be revealed by a detailed 
survey The Bank recommends that you obtain your own report to satisfy yourself 
as to the propertys condition and value
Given this, Im satisfied that, when Mr F and Mrs S received the valuation, they were also 
provided with sufficient information to alert them that this might not be the full HBR they had 
also commissioned, which would be a separate document.
The HBR is not part of the mortgage process  its an additional step borrowers can take to 
find out more about the property theyre buying. For convenience, the same surveyor which 
carries out the banks valuation will usually carry out the HBR at the same time, although this 
isnt necessarily always the case. For Mr F and Mrs Ss mortgage, however, Legal & General 
instructed C to carry out both NatWests valuation and the HBR at the same time.
Mr F and Mrs S accept that its not NatWests fault they didnt receive the HBR. In fact, the 
HBR is entirely the responsibility of C. This is a discrete business in its own right, carrying 
out a separate activity for Mr F and Mrs S  the HBR. This means that anything in relation to 
the HBR  such as carrying out the HBR inspection, preparing the report or sending it to 
Mr F and Mrs S  isnt the responsibility of NatWest, nor is it a regulated activity thats 
covered by our rules. 
NatWest was under no obligation to tell the solicitors that Mr F and Mrs S had commissioned 
the HBR. As I stated above, NatWest had no involvement in the HBR, other than informing 
customers of the option of having one, and passing on the fee for it. 
I see that C reimbursed Mr F and Mrs S for the additional cost of the HBR (£234) over and 
above the £277 valuation fee. Mr F says that they paid £511 and NatWest hasnt reimbursed 
any of this. But I dont think it would be fair to order NatWest to reimburse the cost of the 
mortgage valuation (£277), which the bank required before the mortgage offer could be 
issued.
In the all circumstances, Im satisfied NatWest hasnt done anything wrong in relation to this 
matter. I have considerable sympathy for the position they are in, and I have no doubt this 
has been a very stressful time for them. But I have to separate my own feelings of empathy 
for Mr F and Mrs S, and consider the complaint impartially, on the basis of the evidence. 
Having done so, and for the reasons given above, I can find no basis on which I can fairly or 
reasonably hold NatWest responsible for any or all the cost of the remedial work Mr F and 
Mrs S now say is required on their property.I know this isnt the outcome Mr F and Mrs S were hoping for. If they dont accept my 
decision it wont be legally binding on them or NatWest, and Mr F and Mrs S will be free to 
pursue their concerns against the bank in court, should they wish to do so. I would suggest 
they take legal advice from a solicitor before embarking on any legal action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman