DRN-2304205
The complaint
Mr B has complained about AXA insurance UK PLCs handling of the repairs to his car 
following a claim on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to AXA includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Bs car was damaged in an accident. One of AXAs approved repairers fixed the car. 
Mr B wasn't happy with the standard of repairs and the car twice went back to the approved 
repairer to sort out. But Mr B remained unhappy with the quality of the work. AXA instructed 
an independent engineer to inspect Mr Bs car. The engineer agreed that further rectification 
work was required and set out what needed to be done.
AXA offered another of its approved repairers to fix the things the independent engineer 
identified. Mr B wasn't happy with his car going to another of AXAs approved repairers. 
He suggested another garage to fix it. AXA initially didn't accept Mr Bs chosen garages 
estimate. At that point Mr B brought his complaint to us. AXA then said it was happy to 
authorise Mr Bs chosen garage to sort out the further repairs. It also paid Mr B £175 
compensation to address his distress and inconvenience.
Mr Bs chosen garage then withdrew its offer to repair the car. AXA struggled to find another 
garage that would do the work and offered Mr B £1,500 cash-in-lieu to carry out the repairs. 
Mr B didn't think that went far enough and he found a garage that would carry out the 
repairs. But that garages estimate included a sum to replace the bumper. That wasn't 
something included on the independent engineer's report. AXA said that it would cover the 
other costs of the repair, not including the replacement bumper. And I understand it paid 
Mr B a sum of £2,090.89 initially and it later paid a further sum of £418.18, which was the 
amount for VAT on the repair work, to allow Mr B to pay the repairer up front. 
Mr Bs told us that his chosen garage has since refused to carry out the work. So he thinks 
that AXA should treat his car as a total loss from the date of the accident, or provide him with 
a car of a  similar make and mileage to his. Our investigator thought that AXA had done 
enough to put things right. Mr B didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. But I think AXA has already done enough to put things 
right, so I'm not going to instruct it to take any further action.
Its clear that AXAs approved repairers didn't repair Mr Bs car to an adequate standard 
even after it had further attempts to do so. I can understand this was frustrating for Mr B and 
AXA acknowledged that when it paid him compensation. I think that was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
AXA did then attempt to put things right. And after Mr B brought his complaint to us, it said it 
would authorise Mr Bs chosen garage to do the repairs. But at that point Mr Bs garage 
withdrew their offer to do the work. Its not clear why it made that decision but I can't say its 
because of anything AXA did or didn't do.
Mr B then provided a further repair estimate from another garage. But that estimate included 
replacement of the rear bumper. This wasn't something that the independent engineer had 
recommended. So I think it was reasonable for AXA to refuse to cover the replacement 
bumper cost. Thats because there was no evidence, beyond Mr Bs comments, that the 
bumper required replacement because of the poor previous repairs. 
AXA then paid Mr B a sum that would allow him to pay his chosen repairer up front. But that 
repairer then withdrew its offer to do the work. And while I can understand that was 
immensely frustrating for Mr B, I can't see that the repairers decision was affected by AXAs 
actions.
Im aware Mr B has struggled to find an alternative repairer to do the work. But I don't think 
that means AXA should treat his car as a total loss or find him a replacement. AXA had 
initially offered to have one of its approved repairers carry out the work and that could have 
rectified the issues. Mr B didn't accept that and that was his choice. And in those 
circumstances I think it was reasonable that AXA paid Mr B a cash-in-lieu settlement to allow 
him to pay for the work himself. And as its already done that, I don't think it needs to take 
any further action.
I understand Mr B is likely to be disappointed by my decision. But, if thats the case, he 
doesn't have to accept it. And in those circumstances it won't be legally binding and he can 
pursue whatever action he feels necessary, for example through the courts, to resolve his 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. But Im satisfied that AXA insurance 
UK PLCs has already done enough to put things right. So I'm not going to instruct it to take 
any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman