DRN-2593585
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc are pursuing him for an outstanding 
balance on his interest only mortgage.
What happened
Mr H has an interest only mortgage with RBS, the term of which expired in 2018. In 2016, 
Mr H applied for a term extension and a new interest rate which RBS declined. Mr H 
complained about this at the time. He was unhappy RBS wouldnt accept his rental income 
when considering affordability, even though they had done when he initially took the 
mortgage out.
In January 2018, Mr H paid a lump sum towards the mortgage which left a balance of around 
£85,000 outstanding. RBS agreed that Mr H could have a 12-month term extension in order 
to repay this outstanding balance.
In February 2019, RBS called Mr H to ask how he was planning to repay the outstanding 
balance. The notes show that a message was left, and soon afterwards Mr H paid £83,000 
to the account.
In March 2019, RBS called Mr H again to ask how he would be paying back the outstanding 
balance left on the mortgage. Initially, Mr H said he should be able to pay it before the end of 
the month. However, he later said that he had paid £83,000 because thats what he was told 
he needed to pay. He said this was his full and final offer to settle the mortgage, as he felt 
his mortgage had been mis-sold. He also felt that hed lost out financially due to the fact RBS 
hadnt granted him the longer term extension hed asked for in 2016, as hed had to sell 
another property earlier than planned and for less money.
RBS didnt accept Mr Hs offer and requested the outstanding balance be repaid. Mr H 
complained, and RBS sent their final response in June 2019. They apologised that theyd 
given Mr H incorrect information about the redemption amount in February 2019, and offered 
to pay him £250 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused by this.
Mr H rejected this offer and again asked RBS to accept the £83,000 as a final settlement. 
RBS explained that they do not accept final offers to redeem mortgages, and so the full 
balance would need to be paid. They also said Mr Hs mortgage had not been mis-sold. 
They explained their criteria for assessing affordability changes over time, and Mr Hs 
mortgage would have been granted based on the criteria they had in place at that time. 
Mr H made a further offer to pay another £1,000 in full and final settlement but RBS said the 
full balance would need to be repaid.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into things. He 
explained that he couldnt consider whether RBS should have granted a longer term 
extension in 2016, as that part of the complaint had been made out of time. He said he could 
consider Mr Hs complaint that the mortgage had been mis-sold initially, and also that RBS 
are still pursuing him for an outstanding balance on his mortgage. Both parties accepted this 
position. Although Mr H confirmed he no longer wanted us to consider the original sale of his 
mortgage, and asked us to continue looking into how RBS had handled things at 
redemption.
 
Our investigator considered this, and said that whilst he appreciated RBS mistake would 
have caused Mr H distress and inconvenience, he thought the offer theyd made to put 
things right was fair. He said Mr H would need to request a new redemption statement, and 
RBS should treat Mr H fairly in regard to how they expect the outstanding amount to be 
repaid.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators opinion. He said hed paid the amount RBS told him 
he needed to pay. He hadnt received a redemption statement, so as far as he was 
concerned hed repaid the mortgage in full.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS agreed to lend this mortgage to Mr H on the basis that he would repay the full amount 
borrowed at the end of its term. So, as a starting point I think its reasonable that RBS expect 
the full balance of the mortgage to be repaid now that the term, and the extension have 
ended.
However, Mr H has said he was given a redemption figure by RBS on the phone in February 
2019, and so this is what he paid. As a result, he thinks he shouldnt have to pay any more 
to settle the mortgage. I havent seen any evidence to show Mr H was told he needed to pay 
£83,000 to redeem the mortgage. But RBS have accepted Mr H was given incorrect 
information and so Ive assumed that was the case.
 
So Ive thought carefully about whether this mistake made by RBS should remove Mr Hs 
liability to repay the rest of the outstanding mortgage balance, and I dont think it does.
When a lender makes an error, our service would expect the lender to put the borrower back 
in the position they would have been in, had that error not taken place. In this case, the error 
RBS made was to give Mr H the incorrect figure he needed to pay to redeem his mortgage. 
If RBS had not made that error, and theyd told Mr H the correct information  he still would 
have needed to pay the full amount that he owed on the mortgage. As a result, Im not 
persuaded RBS should write off the outstanding amount that still needs to be paid.
By March 2019 Mr H was aware of the correct position and that he still had a balance 
outstanding. So whilst he did not want to pay it, he had the opportunity to arrange for the full 
amount to be repaid at that time. I understand this amount was around £2,000. 
I do think that Mr H was prevented from repaying the full amount for one month due to the 
incorrect information provided by RBS, and additional interest did accrue during this period. 
However, from looking at the transaction history since Mr H paid the lump sum, I can see the 
interest amounts owed on the account each month are under £9, so I think the amount RBS 
have already offered does enough to compensate Mr H for that one month of additional 
interest paid.RBS have apologised that Mr H was given the incorrect information and offered him £250 to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience this error caused. I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances, and I wont be asking them to do anything more.
Mr H will now need to request an updated redemption statement from RBS which will set out 
what he still needs to pay.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman