DRN-2399647
The complaint
Mr L complains Amtrust Europe Limited mis-sold him his European Recovery roadside 
assistance policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Amtrust are responsible for it, 
Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr L took out breakdown cover to provide help if his car broke down while he 
was on holiday in Europe in September. Unfortunately, Mr Ls car suffered a puncture while 
abroad, and he was charged €235.43 for recovery of his vehicle. He called Amtrust and was 
told the cost of a European motorway would only be covered up to £60. Mr L felt this was 
obscured in the policy and says he was misled regarding the product. He said this exclusion 
isnt mentioned in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). And, after getting 
home, found the specific term on page 17 of the main policy terms. Mr L says the irony is he 
did read all of these terms and conditions but missed this. He says this illustrates his point 
that this exclusion was obscured  and given this policy was bought for a single trip it was 
important.
Mr L complained to Amtrust about these issues. They replied to the complaint and said the 
IPID acts as a summary of cover it isnt to list out all of benefits and limitations of the policy. 
Amtrust added the terms and conditions do cover everything  and on page 17 of the terms 
and conditions the exclusion is mentioned. So, they wouldnt meet his full claim.
Mr L wasnt happy with this and asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so 
and found Amtrust couldnt put every exclusion or condition in the IPID as its meant to be a 
summary. And the IPID does refer people to the terms and conditions. He added other 
people could make the argument that other terms should be included in the IPID  but thatd 
be dependent on their circumstances. Because of that  he said the best way to understand 
all of the terms were to read the full policy terms and conditions Mr L was sent  and the 
term was clear in those. So, overall, he didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint  and as the £60 
cheque was now out of date, hed leave it for Amtrust to send out a new one.
Amtrust replied and said in Mr Ls complaint to us he mentioned he did read the terms and 
conditions. They also said theyd arrange for a transfer for the £60 as theyre now at home 
and cant send cheques.
Mr L didnt agree though. Ive summarised what I consider the key elements of Mr Ls 
concerns about the outcome he received from our investigator:
The key reason he doesnt agree with the outcome is that driving on European 
motorways is surely something more worthy of a place in the IPID than some of the 
other elements Amtrust have recorded in there. 
Mr L said we seem to be making a judgement on whether hes read the small print, 
rather than whether Amtrust is mis-selling their product by excluding a central feature 
of the product.
Because of this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that a limitation of benefit applies to Mr Ls situation of £60. This is written 
in the policy terms, and the term itself is sufficiently clear for Amtrust to justify not paying 
Mr Ls claim. So, I wont consider that in any further detail.
But Mr Ls dispute isnt about this. Its about what he sees as Amtrusts failure to record what 
he regards as a significant exclusion in a sufficiently prominent way as to have drawn his 
attention to it when purchasing the policy.
Ive thought about what hes said carefully, but Im not sure I can agree. The policy terms he 
was provided with cover roadside assistance with Local Recovery, National Recovery, 
European Recovery and At Home Assistance. Thats a large number of different covers, and 
its for the insurer to decide what to record in the IPID which we wouldnt interfere with. 
There was still some cover provided, so Im not sure I can agree with his assertion it should 
have been included.
In addition, Mr L did read the terms. Ive noted his comments that this demonstrates his point 
about the terms not being clear. But I also think this shows Amtrust did do enough to bring it 
to his attention  as the IPID pointed him to the terms and conditions  which he then did 
read. Its unfortunate he missed that term, but  as Ive already found I cant agree with him 
that Amtrust needed to do more to bring this term to his attention  and he did read what he 
was provided.
Mr L has asked about the IPID and has asked about what rules cover this. I think though this 
is more about the insurers judgement as to what they deem a significant exclusion. This isnt 
something wed interfere with in terms of what theyd record in the IPID as Ive explained. 
Overall then, Im satisfied Amtrust havent acted unfairly towards Mr L. If the £60 benefit Mr L 
is entitled to hasnt been received, he can get in touch with Amtrust and ask them to send it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman