DRN-4277721
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Wise Payments Limited didnt do enough to protect her from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money 
once shed reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mrs O was looking into investing in cryptocurrency and came across a company Ill refer to 
as R. She entered her contact details into an online enquiry form and was contacted by 
someone claiming to by someone from R who introduced her to a company Ill refer to as 
A. She made an initial payment of £300 and was then contacted by a broker.
Mrs O checked TrustPilot and found positive reviews about both R and A. She also found 
videos and articles on financial sites which reassured her the investment was genuine. The 
broker was able to answer complex questions and told her shed need to complete 
verification checks as part of their KYC and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) regulations, which 
required her to submit photo ID and proof of address. She was also given access to a 
trading portal, which was extremely detailed and professional and showed the fluctuating 
exchange rates of various currencies.
The broker advised Mrs O to open an account with Wise and to download AnyDesk remote 
access software to her device so he could invest on her behalf. He advised her to first 
purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company and then load it onto 
an online wallet. On 25 July 2022 and 2 August 2022, she transferred £5,000 and £10,000 to 
an account in her own name. During the scam period she received a withdrawal of £988.
She received regular updates regarding the investment, but she realised shed been 
scammed when the broker called her on a foreign number. She became suspicious and 
asked to withdraw her profits, but the broker began to make excuses about why she should 
keep her profits and became angry with Mrs O for continuing to request withdrawals. 
Mrs O asked Wise for a refund complaining of a lack of customer service and information. 
But Wise refused to refund any of the money shed lost. It said that once a transfer is sent, 
the funds are no longer under its control and the obligation of ensuring the legitimacy of the 
recipient lies with the sender and it was unable to reverse or recall payments once they are 
marked as complete. It said it had attempted to recover some of the funds by sending a 
recall request to the beneficiary bank, but it closed the request as it didnt receive a 
response. 
Mrs O wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service arguing that Wise had failed to 
intervene or to provide any effective scam warnings, messages or calls to question the 
payments. She said that if Wise had stopped the payments and asked her why she was 
sending the payments, she would have explained what she was doing, and it would have 
alerted her to the fact she was being scammed. She didnt have a history of sending large 
payments, so the scam payments should have flagged on their system as they were out of 
character. 
Mrs Os representative said Wise should have intervened because she made two large and 
unusual payments to a new payee linked to cryptocurrency within eight days. In particular, 
the first payment should have been flagged as she was paying a new payee with links to 
cryptocurrency and had only just opened the account. They said Wise should have asked if 
there was an investment company involved and if so, how she found out about the company. 
It should also have asked whether shed researched the company, whether shed checked 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website, whether shed been promised unrealistic 
returns and whether shed received any withdrawals
They said Mrs O wasnt prompted to give false answers, so Wise would have discovered the 
investment had the hallmarks of a scam and even though she was sending money to a 
legitimate cryptocurrency merchant, it should have still provided a scam warning.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that there was almost 
no prior account activity to compare the payments with. He explained that the in-app warning 
messages that were displayed when Mrs O made the payments were clear and highlighted 
that with any transfer, theres always a risk of losing money if it later turns out to be a scam. 
And he didnt think it would have made any difference if Wise had contacted Mrs O by phone 
because shed seen positive reviews online and there were no obvious red flags.
Mrs O has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. She has argued that 
the in-app warning didnt mention investment scams and that a better intervention with 
education on typical patterns of behaviour in investment scams would have allowed her to 
make a more informed decision and prevented her from going ahead with the payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Miss O has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Miss O says shes fallen victim to, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. The CRM code didnt apply in this case because 
Miss O paid an account in her own name.
Im satisfied Miss O authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of her bank account, Miss O is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Theres no dispute that this was a scam, but although Miss O didnt intend her money to go 
to scammers, she did authorise the disputed payments. Wise is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer 
has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to 
reimburse them even though they authorised the payment.Prevention
Ive thought about whether Wise could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the 
payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However Wise fairly 
and reasonably be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, 
so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Miss O when she tried to 
make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect 
Wise to intervene with a view to protecting Miss O from financial harm due to fraud. 
Both payments were to a merchant linked to cryptocurrency and they were for £5,000 and 
£10,000, so Wise should have intervened. Wise has said that on both occasions, Mrs O was 
provided with a written warning, which broadly covers scam risks, and it has produced an 
example of what she would have seen. Her representative has argued that a written warning 
wasnt enough and that it should have contacted her to ask probing questions and provide a 
scam warning. 
Ive considered the amounts involved and the fact there was no account history to compare 
the payments with and Im satisfied that the written warnings were sufficient as they broadly 
covered scam risks. Ive also considered what would have happened if Mrs O was provided 
a more tailored warning and I dont think it would have made a difference because she had 
seen positive reviews, she was convinced the investment was genuine and there was 
nothing obvious to indicate that shed been scammed. 
Overall, while I accept the written warnings werent specific to the type of scam Mrs O had 
fallen victim to, I think Wise did enough in the circumstances and I dont think a more tailored 
warning would have made a difference to the outcome. So, I dont think Wise needed to do 
anything else and because of this I cant fairly ask it to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
Overall, Im satisfied Wise took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as well 
as the steps it took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mrs O has lost 
money and the effect this has had on her. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
Wise is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman