DRN-2890683
The complaint
Miss P is complaining that AIB Group (UK) Plc wont refund transactions she didnt 
authorise. 
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill recap the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my decision: 
On 28 January 2021, Miss P took a call from someone claiming to be from AIB. They 
said there had been suspicious transactions, and they needed to sort it out as her 
details had been compromised. 
They asked Miss P for information, including a seven-digit number from her card and 
codes she received from AIB by text. They said this would confirm she was the 
account holder and stop the fraud. 
That day, an online banking transfer for £1000 was made, with a further payment for 
£999 made the following morning.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017, Miss P isnt liable for payments 
she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with 
the terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe.
Its agreed Miss P didnt authorise the transactions (or even realise they were being 
made at the time), because she didnt complete the agreed steps to make the 
payments. Instead, it seems the fraudster made the payments using information they 
convinced Miss P to share by falsely saying they needed to confirm she was the 
account holder and stop fraudulent transactions. 
I dont think Miss P failed with intent to keep her details safe  she genuinely believed 
what she was doing was necessary to protect the account. 
Im also not satisfied Miss P failed with gross negligence. She had several missed 
calls from numbers that, when she checked online, appeared to be from her bank, 
AIB. So when they called again, I can see why she accepted the call. 
Miss P has explained how they said they were from AIBs financial crime unit, calling 
about suspicious transactions. They went through some recent payments, some of 
which Miss P didnt recognise. 
They also provided some personal information about her (something that couldve 
been gained from a fraudulent website Miss P unknowingly used a short time before 
this happened). Its not clear whether they provided her customer registration 
number at the outset, or later on as a result of things Miss P shared with them. But 
either way, I can see how the circumstances sounded plausible to Miss P and how 
she was convinced she was dealing with her genuine bank. 
To cancel the fraudulent payments, they asked Miss P for the seven-digit number on 
her debit card, reassuring her that she shouldnt share the long card number. She 
said she felt comfortable sharing this, as she didnt think there was a risk without the 
other account details. I can understand that  theres nothing obvious about it being a 
risky thing to share. And Im mindful of how the caller had gone to lengths to gain 
Miss Ps trust and had cleverly misdirected her by highlighting what she shouldnt 
share. It follows that I dont think she acted with significant carelessness here, to be 
able to say that she failed with gross negligence. 
Miss P was also asked for a code from her card reader. As it was broken, they asked 
for codes sent via text from AIB. AIB suggest she failed with gross negligence 
because she acknowledged the warning in the message not to share the code, even 
with bank staff. 
Ive considered this carefully  and I can see how Miss Ps actions have raised 
questions about why she took the steps she did. But gross negligence cant be 
proven by simply saying that she read the warning. Its more nuanced than that  and 
I must consider all the circumstances.
Shes explained how she was told the fraud team were different to other bank staff, 
so they could access things other staff couldnt. To prove their position, they provided 
her with details from her credit record, like other accounts she had. 
It seems Miss P was also placed under a lot of pressure. They explained how, 
without the code, they couldnt cancel the fraudulent transactions. They quoted FCA 
regulations and said that if she didnt cooperate now, she wouldnt be able to recover 
the money later.  
Ive also considered how the texts didnt alert Miss P to a payment was being made. 
Instead, they were described as a six digit code or activation code. 
In this context, I can see why Miss P was reassured enough that she was dealing 
with someone distinguished from Bank staff and why, given the risks theyd 
presented about her losing money, she shared the codes. It follows that I dont think 
she seriously disregarded an obvious risk  to say that she failed with gross 
negligence. 
I acknowledge Miss P did show some signs of doubt throughout the call  hence the 
questions she asked, and her hesitation in providing some information. But the fact 
she was ultimately convinced doesnt mean she failed with gross negligence. Indeed, 
had she asked no questions, I think AIB would equally have raised concerns. 
Instead, I think what happened here highlights how particularly clever this scam was 
 it seems theyd detailed answers to all her questions and ultimately gave what I 
imagine felt like in the moment was a no-win situation. 
On this basis, I dont think Miss Ps actions fell so far below what a reasonable person wouldve done that it amounts to gross negligence. So I conclude that she 
isnt liable for the transactions and AIB need to put things right  by refunding her 
losses from these unauthorised transactions alongside interest to compensate her for 
the time shes been out of pocket.
AIB shouldve refunded these transactions sooner  and thats meant shes worried 
about paying back friends and family money she had to borrow in the aftermath of 
the scam. So I also award £250 compensation to reflect Miss Ps distress. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Miss Ps complaint and I order AIB Group (UK) 
Plc to: 
  
Pay Miss P the total of the unauthorised transactions (£1999), less any amount 
already returned. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay £250 compensation for Miss Ps distress. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman