DRN-2673437
The complaint
Mr L complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC caused him severe financial hardship - 
and that they didnt treat him fairly and sympathetically when he got into financial difficulties. 
He also complains about the way they communicated with him and that they wouldnt 
correspond with him by email. 
What happened
Mr L had a Tesco loan and a credit card. In February 2016 he was signed off work due to 
illness. A year later, as he still hadnt been able to return to work, he applied for a top-up to 
his Tesco loan. 
Unfortunately, Mr Ls situation didnt improve as quickly as hed hoped, and by August 2017 
he was unable to meet his monthly repayments. In September 2017 he phoned Tesco to let 
them know he was out of work - he followed this up with a letter offering to pay £1 per month 
until he was able to pay more. In this letter Mr L told Tesco he was homeless, so theyd need 
to contact him either by email or by writing to him at a relatives address. 
Mr L says Tesco didnt respond to his letter, so he called them in December 2017. He says 
he set up direct debit arrangements over the phone to pay £1 per month to each account 
and that Tesco promised to contact him if there were any problems. They told him that they 
were unable to communicate with him by email.
Mr L says he re-contacted his creditors in March or April 2018 with the intention of increasing 
his monthly payments, but when he called Tesco they told him they hadnt received the 
agreed £1 payments on his credit card account. He says he offered to pay these missed 
payments and to increase his payments going forward, but Tesco refused his offers of 
monthly amounts he felt he could afford. 
Mr L was unhappy that Tesco issued default notices demanding repayment of the total 
amounts he owed and later sold these debts to another company. He complained that they 
hadnt done enough to help him deal with his financial difficulties, and that the defaults on his 
credit file were preventing him getting accommodation. Tesco said theyd done nothing 
wrong. 
Our investigator didnt think Tesco acted irresponsibly by giving Mr L the top-up loan. And he 
thought theyd offered suitable support before issuing default notices when he failed to keep 
up with repayments. He didnt look into whether Tesco did anything wrong by refusing the 
payments Mr L offered them, because that forms part of a separate complaint. Mr L asked 
for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the file in detail, I can see that this has been an incredibly difficult time for 
Mr L. Ive carefully considered whether Tesco acted irresponsibly by lending him more 
money in February 2017 and whether they acted fairly when he got in to financial difficulties. 
Ive also looked at whether their communication with Mr L was appropriate and adequate. 
Im not going to consider whether Tesco acted unfairly by refusing the payments Mr L 
offered, because he made a separate complaint about that. 
Did Tesco act irresponsibly by allowing Mr L to increase his loan?
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance for lenders to follow  
these can be found in their Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Before lending Mr L more 
money in February 2017, Tesco were required to carry out a creditworthiness assessment. 
This meant making reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that hed be 
able to make repayments in a sustainable way. These checks werent just about how likely it 
was that theyd get their money back  they had to focus on whether the repayments would 
adversely affect Mr Ls financial situation.
There was no set list of checks that Tesco had to complete, but they had to be proportionate 
to the circumstances. There were a number of factors that might affect how extensive these 
checks needed to be, such as the type and amount of credit, the customers financial 
position, credit history and other financial commitments. 
Tesco have provided evidence of the checks they carried out. Theyve told us Mr L declared 
that he was in full time employment with a net monthly income of £2,068, with declared 
monthly payments of £1,135 for rent and other credit  and that this was consistent with 
information theyd obtained from a credit reference agency. Ive seen copies of Mr Ls 
statements showing that, although hed incurred some late payment fees on his Tesco credit 
card account, he hadnt missed any payments. And all monthly repayments on his previous 
Tesco loan had been paid on time. I note that a lower rate of interest applied to the new loan 
and his monthly repayment amounts were slightly lower.
 
In these circumstances Im satisfied that the creditworthiness checks Tesco carried out were 
reasonable and proportionate. Ive seen nothing in the information those checks revealed 
that shouldve given Tesco cause for concern about Mr Ls ability to sustain repayments on 
the new loan. He hadnt made them aware of any change in his circumstances, so I find it 
reasonable for them to rely on the income information stated in the application. So, I dont 
consider Tesco to have acted irresponsibly or unfairly here.
 
Did Tesco treat Mr L fairly when he got into financial difficulty?
CONC also sets out rules and guidance as to how lenders should treat customers in arrears 
or default. Although there are no rules preventing lenders from taking action to recover 
money owed to them, theyre expected to act with forbearance and due consideration. What 
this means in practice will vary according to the circumstances. This could include 
suspending further interest or charges on an account, or accepting token payments for a 
reasonable period of time to give the customer an opportunity to recover from an unexpected 
change to their income. Lenders should allow customers who are in arrears a reasonable 
time and opportunity to repay the debt. Ive carefully considered Mr Ls complaint with this in 
mind.
Ive reviewed Tescos records of their communications with Mr L from September 2017, 
when he told them he was struggling to make payments because he was no longer working. 
At that time Mr L said he was working on a budget plan. Ive seen that Tesco immediately 
put a hold on both accounts for 30 days, to allow him time to look into his options without 
further interest and charges building up. It isnt disputed that, in December 2017, Tesco accepted Mr Ls offer of £1 per month for 
each account, to be paid by direct debit. Accepting a token payment is considered a means 
of allowing a consumer breathing space  it isnt the same as making an arrangement to 
repay outstanding debts. Tescos records say Mr L had no income at that time - so this was 
set up as a temporary measure for two months to see if his financial situation would improve.
Tescos records show that they reviewed Mr Ls accounts at least once a month in the period 
between September 2017 and March 2018, to assess whether his financial situation had 
improved enough to enable him to put a suitable payment arrangement in place. At the 
beginning of March 2018, before issuing default notices, the evidence shows Tesco spoke to 
Mr L by phone to see whether he was able to agree a payment plan. Their file notes say he 
was still homeless but managing to hold down agency work - and that they explained that 
theyd be restarting the default and termination process due to the level of arrears. Tesco 
then issued a default notice on Mr Ls credit card account, and they issued a default notice 
on his loan account the following day. 
Mr L feels strongly that there was no need for Tesco to issue default notices  and that in 
time hed have been able to get things back on track. Ive seen some references to this 
effect in Tescos file notes, and that he wanted to update the information hed given them 
about his income and expenditure at the time the default was issued. But after giving this 
careful consideration, I cant say that Tesco acted unreasonably or unfairly by issuing the 
default notices. Ill explain why I say this.
A default is when someone fails to meet their financial obligations under an agreement  
generally when the arrears have built up to an unacceptable level. When a consumer is in 
default, the business has to issue a default notice before they can terminate the agreement.
 
CONC says 30 days is generally considered a reasonable period for a customer to develop 
a payment plan, although lenders may extend this for a further 30 days where theres 
evidence that the customer is making progress with this. By March 2018, it had been more 
than eight months since Mr L had made repayments in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the accounts. He had total outstanding balances of £3,502.14 on the credit 
card and £14,891.90 on the loan. So, although I can understand Mr Ls frustration that Tesco 
didnt wait for his revised income and expenditure form before issuing the default, Im not 
persuaded that this would have made any difference to the outcome. The updated details Mr 
L sent in the following month showed that his employment was on a zero hours contract with 
an agency  so he still had no guaranteed income with which to make sustainable 
repayments to pay off these debts.
 
I can understand Mr L being upset about defaults being recorded on his credit file, and the 
effect of this on his ability to find accommodation. But the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) generally expect a default to be recorded when an account is between three and six 
months in arears. The ICO say this kind of information is intended to indicate at the earliest 
possible opportunity that a customer is showing signs of potential financial difficulty or 
inability to manage his or her finances.  In this case Tesco recorded the defaults after a 
period of more than eight months in arears. Tesco have an obligation to ensure information 
they report to credit reference agencies is accurate and up to date, so I cant say they 
treated Mr L unreasonably or unfairly. 
As I dont consider it to have been unfair or unreasonable for Tesco to issue default notices, 
it follows that I dont consider them to have done anything wrong by terminating their 
agreements with Mr L and selling the debts to another business.
 
Tescos communications with Mr LI realise Mr Ls situation made it very difficult for him to correspond by post, and that email 
wouldve made things easier for him. Ive reviewed Tescos records of their communications 
with Mr L in detail. These records indicate that they kept in contact with Mr L by phone or by 
writing to him at the address hed given them in October 2017. Although I accept letters 
wouldve taken longer to reach him than emails, Im satisfied that Mr L received them 
because Ive seen evidence that he called Tesco on several occasions in response to their 
letters. 
The evidence Ive seen shows Tesco informed Mr L when they hadnt received the required 
payments  and the action they were proposing to take as a result. Im satisfied that they 
sent him information about the default on these accounts, their intention to pass the debts to 
a collection agency, and a response to the points he raised in his complaint. So, although 
this information wasnt provided to him in his preferred format, I dont consider Tesco to have 
treated Mr L unfairly. 
My final decision
I understand Mr L will be disappointed with this decision, but for the reasons Ive explained 
here, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman