DRN-3215302
Complaint
Mrs M has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) irresponsibly provided her with an 
unaffordable credit card and unaffordable loans.
Background
Mrs M also has a complaint about an overdraft she jointly took out with her husband. And 
Mrs Ms husband also had his own complaint about loans in his sole name. Weve looked at 
those complaints separately and I wont be offering any opinion on whether those credit 
facilities should have been provided. That said, I will be referring to facts of those products 
insofar as they are relevant to Mrs Ms application for her loans and credit card.
Lloyds provided Mrs M with a loan for £10,000.00 in June 2008 (loan 1 for the purposes of 
this decision). The loan was due to be repaid in 48 monthly payments of £237.36. Mrs M 
was then provided with a second loan for £11,000.00, in July 2010 (loan 2 for the purposes 
of this decision). This loan was due to be repaid in 36 monthly payments of £396.70. 
Mrs M was provided with a third loan in June 2013 (loan 3 for the purposes of this 
decision). This loan was for £10,000.00 and due to be repaid in 60 monthly payments of 
£302.27. Loan 3 was settled early with some of the proceeds from a fourth loan, which 
Lloyds provided in February 2017 (loan 4 for the purposes of this decision). This loan was 
for £29,647.26 and due to be repaid in 60 monthly payments of £568.36.
Lloyds initially provided Mrs M with a credit card in May 2012. This card was provided with 
an initial credit limit of £1,500.00. In May 2014, the limit was increased to £2,000.00 and in 
January 2015, the limit was reduced to £1,900.00. In July 2015, the limit was decreased to 
£1,800.00 before it was finally reduced to £500 in June 2017. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ms complaint. She thought that Lloyds shouldnt 
have provided Mrs M with the credit card limit increase in May 2014, or loan 4 in February 
2017. Mrs M didnt disagree with our investigator but Lloyds did and so the case was passed 
to an ombudsman. As the parties appear to be in agreement over loans 1 to 3 and the initial 
decision to provide Mrs M with a credit card, this decision will only be looking at the 
decisions to increase Mrs Ms credit card limit to £2,000.00 in May 2014 and the decision to 
provide loan 4 in February 2017.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive considered this while deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think that there are three overarching 
questions that I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint. These questions are:    
Did Lloyds carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs M 
would be able to repay any credit advanced in a sustainable way?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Lloyds ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Ms 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt 
have provided further credit?
Did Lloyds act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs M in some other way?
 
Ill consider each of these questions in turn.
Did Lloyds carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs M would 
be able to repay any credit advanced in a sustainable way?
The rules and regulations throughout the period Lloyds lent to Mrs M required it to carry out 
a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Lloyds had to think about whether sustainably 
repaying any amounts lent would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs M. In 
practice this meant that Lloyds had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause  
Mrs M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Lloyds 
to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact 
of any repayments on Mrs M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Lloyds did what it needed to before 
providing Mrs M with her credit card limit increase and loan 4. 
Were Lloyds checks reasonable and proportionate
Lloyds final response told Mrs M that it used a process credit scoring to assess a customers 
application. It said credit scoring helped it to decide whether to lend money and it worked by 
awarding Mrs M points based on the information he provided about himself and information 
held on his credit file at the credit reference agency.
It used this information to predict how big a risk it was taking by lending Mrs M money. If  
Mrs M scored enough points, it took her application to the next stage. Based on the 
information it had available, it was satisfied all of Mrs Ms loans and credit card limit 
increases were affordable. 
Ive carefully thought about what Lloyds has said. I want to start by saying that it doesnt 
automatically follow that a lender will have acted fairly and reasonably when providing a loan 
simply because it acted in line with its policy. I think it is important for me to point this out 
here. 
Secondly, the only information Lloyds has been able to provide me with relates to what it 
gathered before providing loan 4. Given the length of time thats passed since the other 
lending decisions in question, I dont think thats too surprising. Nonetheless, I do find it odd 
that Lloyds can be unequivocally sure that nothing wrong at all for the earlier applications, 
when it doesnt have anything at all to review the position.
Its also worth noting that for the credit card limit increase in May 2014, Mrs Ms limit was 
increased by a third of the existing limit, even though shed been provided with a loan for 
£10,000.00 a less than a year earlier. And this increase was provided at a time when         
Mrs Ms joint account had regularly been incurring unplanned overdraft fees.
Im also concerned at how Lloyds arrived at the monthly disposable income figure it did for 
loan 4. The information provided suggests that Lloyds concluded that Mrs M had enough to 
comfortably able to repay this loan. But the figure arrived at was based on an estimate of 
living costs derived from an amount that most people would spend as a minimum. So it 
seems to me that if most people spent at least this a amount a fair few would spend more. I 
dont think its reasonable to place a high degree of confidence on this figure being accurate, 
as Lloyds own explanation here suggests there is a strong possibility this was an 
underestimate. 
Equally, despite not having any details of the amount attributed to Mrs Ms credit 
commitments, Lloyds is confident that as Mrs M had £850 a month left over, she had more 
than enough to be able to cover these and the monthly loan repayment of around £570. But 
as theres no indication of what Mrs Ms other credit commitments were and given my 
concerns at the amount arrived at in relation to Mrs Ms estimated living costs, I simply dont 
share Lloyds confidence here.  
So notwithstanding what have been determined during the credit scoring in the applications, 
it seems to me that there were a number of warning signs and questions marks, in the 
information relied upon and which in turn called into question Mrs Ms ability to sustainably 
repay this credit. And I think that Lloyds failed to take into account the whole picture of its 
overall lending history with Mrs M, across the products it provided, in favour of a narrower 
focus on the individual applications, which presented a more favourable picture of Mrs Ms 
financial position. As theres no evidence that Lloyds asked for, or considered, further information to properly 
scrutinise and address the warning signs, gaps and inconsistencies Ive highlighted, I find 
that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before providing 
Mrs M with loan 4 or her credit card limit increase.
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point where 
Lloyds ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Ms indebtedness in a way 
that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further credit?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before Mrs Ms credit card limit 
increase and loan 4 were provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. And 
ordinarily Id need to decide whether it is more likely than not that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have told Lloyds it shouldnt have provided this further credit. 
However, I dont think that it is necessary for me to do this here. 
I say this because Im mindful that the relevant rules and guidance makes it clear that a 
lender shouldnt continue offering credit where the borrowing is unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful and/or where its apparent the borrower may be experiencing financial difficulties. So 
in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual lending decision, I also 
think its fair and reasonable to look at what unfolded during the course of Mrs Ms 
relationship with Lloyds. 
Its worth noting that Mrs M had had a late payment and for the most part hadnt been 
making payments sufficient to repay her credit card balance within a reasonable period of 
time in the months leading up to May 2014. And Ive already highlighted that shed incurred 
unarranged overdraft charges in the period leading up to this too. So its unclear to me why 
Lloyds considered an increase to Mrs Ms credit limit was affordable in these circumstances 
as there were significant question marks over her ability to repay the existing limit.
Furthermore, Lloyds response to our investigator suggests that Mrs M was displaying signs 
of struggling to manage at the time of loan 4. And this loan was provided to put Mrs M in a 
stronger financial position by repaying her credit cards (elsewhere), overdraft and 
outstanding loan. It further says that, at the point of application, it asked Mrs M whether she 
knew of any upcoming change in her circumstances that would impact her ability to repay 
the lending. In its view, this means Mrs M should have ticked to she knew of the 
circumstances and its systems wouldnt have allowed the application to proceed. 
But I think this ignores some of what Lloyds ought to have known already during the course 
of its lending relationship with Mrs M. For example, this wasnt Mrs Ms first consolidation 
loan as she was provided with a loan in 2013 where some of the funds, were used to clear 
her joint overdraft and her husbands credit card debt. 
Lloyds has questioned our investigators referral to Mrs Ms husband in her assessment as 
Mrs M was provided with a loan in her sole name. But as its clear that Lloyds was on notice 
Mrs M and her husband ran their finances in a connected way, I consider their joint finances 
to be relevant here. And, in any event, whats particularly relevant here is that this wasnt the 
first consolidation loan Mrs M had been provided with, or the first time Mrs M had repaid 
what she owed with further borrowing. 
When Mrs Ms husbands borrowing is considered, this was the third time Lloyds was 
consolidating existing debts for Mrs Ms household and Lloyds was again lending to clear 
balances on some of the same accounts that had been consolidated previously. So, in my 
view, Lloyds ought to have been on notice that Mrs M might have gone on to increase her 
indebtedness. After all Mrs M returned to Lloyds in 2017, owing more than she did in 2013 despite her household having been provided with funds, in order to reduce and clear what 
they owed. 
Id also add that even though Lloyds is saying it provided loan 4 to help Mrs M out of a 
difficult situation, if I take Lloyds argument to its logical conclusion, I see it as being even if 
this loan was unsustainable, it still wasnt unfair to lend because this credit was less 
unaffordable then Mrs Ms existing credit. I have concerns with this argument for a number of 
reasons.
Firstly, I think that Lloyds is presenting a false dichotomy here as it somehow suggesting that 
Mrs M was faced with choosing between paying her existing creditors an unaffordable 
amount, or paying Lloyds perhaps less unaffordable amounts. But this ignores the fact that 
Mrs M could have attempted to reach arrangements with her existing creditors to repay what 
she owed  after all her existing creditors (including Lloyds itself which appears to have been 
owed a significant amount) owed a regulatory obligation to exercise forbearance and due 
consideration in the event that she was struggling to repay what she already owed. 
Im not suggesting that Lloyds was required to provide Mrs M with debt advice in relation to 
her existing debts. What Im saying here is that Mrs Ms choice wasnt as binary as Lloyds 
appears to be suggesting. And that it doesnt automatically follow that Mrs M wont have lost 
out simply because loan 4 might have had a lower APR than her existing debts. 
Secondly, Lloyds advanced Mrs M additional funds over and above what she owed 
elsewhere. So while it might have reduced her monthly payment (once again perhaps to a 
less unaffordable payment), it was nonetheless increasing Mrs Ms overall indebtedness. Its 
also worth noting that this loan appears to have been for an amount greater than Mrs Ms 
annual income and the monthly payments would take up almost a third of her salary.
Equally, it ought to have been apparent that Mrs Ms indebtedness was increasing in 
circumstances where she (and the household) was only repaying what he owed by 
borrowing further. And this in itself is highlighted as unsustainable within the regulator rules. I 
dont think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to argue about Mrs Ms responsibilities (in 
relation to failing to consider whether the credit was affordable for her), while also failing to 
acknowledge its shortcomings in Mrs Ms adoption of her repayment strategy.
Given all of Lloyds obligations and what I think is fair and reasonable taking into account the 
circumstances and everything Ive covered in this section, I find that Lloyds ought fairly and 
reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Ms indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so it shouldnt have provided him with the credit 
card limit increase it did in May 2014 and loan 4 in February 2017. 
Did Lloyds act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs M in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs M in some other way.
Conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought about the three overarching questions, set out on page 
two of this decision, I find that:
Lloyds didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs M to satisfy itself 
that she was able to sustainably repay the credit limit increase on her credit card in 
May 2014 and loan 4 in February 2017;Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that loan 4 and the credit limit 
increase on Mrs Ms credit card in May 2014 were unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful for her and was unfairly and excessively increasing her overall indebtedness; 
Lloyds didnt also act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs M in some other way.
The above findings leave me reaching the overall conclusion that Lloyds unfairly and 
unreasonably provided Mrs M with a credit card limit increase to £2,000.00 in May 2014 and 
loan 4 in February 2017. 
Did Mrs M lose out as a result of Lloyds shortcomings?
Mrs M has paid and is being expected to pay additional interest and charges as a result of 
being unfairly provided with the credit she shouldnt have been provided with. Ive 
considered Lloyds argument that Mrs M had other more expensive credit. But Ive already 
explained that I dont think this is automatically the case, as its entirely possible that Mrs M 
would have reached arrangements to repay what she owed her existing creditors. 
And its perfectly possible these arrangements wouldnt have accrued further interest. In 
effect Lloyds providing Mrs M with the additional loan and credit card borrowing it shouldnt 
have meant that she had to pay Lloyds additional interest for the privilege of it allowing her to 
delay dealing with what, in my view, had already become an unsustainable debt position. 
Mrs M had to pay this additional interest at a time when she was already finding it difficult to 
repay what she owed. So Im satisfied that Mrs M has lost out because of what Lloyds did 
wrong and Lloyds needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Mrs M
Ive given a lot of careful thought to what fair compensation should look like in this case. 
Ive already explained that Mrs Ms real loss here is the interest that Lloyds added to her 
credit card account as a result of the credit limit increase and her loan. So Im satisfied that 
Lloyds needs to take the steps Ive set out below to put things right.
Mrs Ms credit card
Mrs Ms credit limit shouldnt have been increased in May 2014. So Lloyds should rework    
Mrs Ms credit card account to ensure that any interest, fees and charges added as a result 
of the credit limit increase, in May 2014, should be removed. This means that Mrs Ms 
account should be reworked so that interest is only ever charged on the first £1,500.00 of 
any balance.  
Mrs Ms loan
Im satisfied that Lloyds should refund any interest and charges Mrs M paid on loan 4. 
Should the interest refund from loan 4 as well as Mrs Ms payments be enough to clear the 
outstanding balance then any extra should be treated as overpayments and refunded to   
Mrs M. Interest at 8% simple per annum should be added to any refunded payments, if there 
are any, from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
   Ordinarily, where I find that a lender unfairly provided a borrower with loans, Id tell the 
lender to remove any adverse information recorded about that loan from the borrowers 
credit file. However, Im mindful of the circumstances of this case and in particular my 
reasons for upholding the complaint. 
Ive upheld Mrs Ms complaint on the basis that her existing debts, at the time of these 
applications, already appear to have been unsustainable and that Lloyds providing her with 
potentially less unaffordable credit didnt take into account that Mrs M may have reached 
arrangements with her existing creditors. And that Lloyds unfairly providing Mrs M with these 
loans simply delayed her dealing with the consequences of his unsustainable debt. 
This is the reason why I think Lloyds should refund the interest it added to loan 4. That said, 
it would be unreasonable for me to reach this finding in relation to the balance owed, but 
depart from it in terms of Mrs Ms credit file going forward. I think that removing adverse 
information in circumstances where it was more likely than not Lloyds would have recorded 
this on another product would place Mrs M in a more advantageous position.  
In my view, this would be counterproductive and arguably not in Mrs Ms best interests, or 
those of any potential lender. So having carefully thought about everything, including 
everything Mrs M has told us, Im not asking Lloyds to amend Mrs Ms credit file to remove 
any adverse information as result of these loans.      
All of this means that Lloyds needs to do the following to put things right.
Removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 4 from the outset. The 
payments Mrs M made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£29,647.26 originally lent. Lloyds should treat any payments made should the new 
starting balance be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be 
refunded to Mrs M;
Adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mrs M to the date of settlement;
If an outstanding balance remains on loan 4 once these adjustments have been 
made, Lloyds should contact Mrs M to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this.
Rework Mrs Ms credit card account to ensure that from May 2014 onwards interest 
is only charged on the first £1,500.00 outstanding to reflect the fact that no credit limit 
increases should have been provided from then. All late payment and over limit fees 
should also be removed;
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file as a result of her 
credit card limit being increased over £1,500.00 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give     
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons explained, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Lloyds Bank Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman