DRN-1456814
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) allowed the date of a standing order to PL 
to be changed without his consent, and is also unhappy with the length of the call to BOS 
when he was trying to obtain an explanation.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr M and BOS, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here in any 
great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mr M went into branch on the 16 March 2018 to update his standing order to PL. He had 
previously set it so that it was paid on the first day of the month. He later noticed that the 
standing order was being paid on the last day of the month and so reported that change to 
BOS because he hadnt authorised it. When he rang BOS he was on the telephone he 
estimates for about 2 hours and said he felt fobbed off.
BOS investigated and in their final response letter accepted they had been at fault, but 
confirmed that no third party had been allowed access to Mr Ms account. They accepted the 
call had been lengthy but explained that was because of the nature of the complaint and that 
the call handler had been trying to assist Mr M. They offered Mr M £50 in compensation in 
recognition of their error and paid that into his account.
Mr M was unhappy with BOSs final response and so brought the complaint to this service 
and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator agreed there had been 
poor service in so far as the date of the standing order was changed without Mr Ms consent, 
but he thought the amount of compensation offered was sufficient to put things right. 
Mr M didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether BOS acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I have to make an independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. And in this case, I dont think that 
BOS has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
The evidence I have seen from BOS does show that there was an amendment made on the 
16 March 2018 to Mr Ms standing order by changing it so the first payment was the 31 
March 2018. Mr M also says he went into the branch on the 16 March and instructed BOS to 
amend his standing order as to the amount only. BOS has confirmed that it has not allowed 
any third party to access Mr Ms account, and there is no other direct evidence to suggest 
that a third party has done so. 
So, weighing this evidence I think it is more likely, on the balance of probabilities, that 
someone in BOS changed the standing order date at the time the amount was changed. Like 
our investigator I recognise that Mr M feels that there may have been a data breach. I feel it 
is important to note its not the role of this service to decide whether or not theres been a 
data breach - only the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) can do that. If Mr M wishes 
to complain to the ICO, there is more information on how to do this on its website.
I do note that Mr M spent a long time on the telephone trying to sort this matter out and that 
is regrettable, but of course some time must be spent in order to understand the issues and 
offer assistance. I have seen no evidence to suggest that it was not necessary to spend the 
amount of time that was spent; rather Mr M simply complains that it took a long time. 
Nevertheless that time spent on the call was caused by BOS.
So, in summary, BOS has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it 
should compensate Mr M. And so it paid Mr M £50. As Mr M doesnt believe this is sufficient 
to put matters right, Ive given this some further thought and in so doing Ive considered the 
level of awards this service has previously made for trouble and upset in similar cases. Ive 
also taken into account, in the light of my findings, the impact the error is likely to have had 
on Mr M. There was no direct financial loss incurred and BOS offered to amend the standing 
order date for him again at his request.
In some complaints, the problems a customer encounters dont just affect them financially, 
and in part that is the case here. Those problems can lead to the customer being caused 
some trouble and upset and it is only right that the business should think about what it could 
do to put matters right. Any award of compensation for trouble and upset caused needs to 
be balanced and measured against the ups and downs of daily life in dealing with other 
people, businesses and organisations, and recognising that that can be inconvenient at 
times.
Putting all of this into the balance I think what BOS paid is fair and reasonable. And I think it 
is enough to put matters right. So, although Mr M will probably be disappointed with my 
decision, and whilst BOS did make an error resulting in Mr M having to spend time on the 
matter, I cant say BOS has subsequently acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not 
upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
BOS has already paid £50 to settle this complaint, and that is fair and reasonable. So my 
final decision is that I dont require BOS to do anything else.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman