DRN-1400209
The complaint
Mr B complains Capital One (Europe) plc made it difficult for him to raise a chargeback, and 
that they called him at times they knew he wouldn't be available.
What happened
Mr B has a credit card account with Capital One. One evening, at the end of March 2019, he 
called Capital One to make a chargeback claim. During this call, Mr B was told he'd need to 
call back because the department that deals with this only work Monday to Friday, between 
the hours of 9am and 5pm. Mr B was unhappy with this because he says Captial One claim 
be to available 24 hours a day. He also said his job meant he wasn't able to make or receive 
calls between 9am and 5pm on weekdays. As Mr B was unhappy with this response, he 
asked to make a complaint. And Capital One's adviser said they'd arrange a call back.
Capital One attempted to call Mr B a few days later, on two consecutive days. And both 
times, the calls were made during the timeframe Mr B said he wasn't available to take calls. 
This also made Mr B unhappy, so he contacted Capital One to let them know. Capital One's 
adviser said they'd put a note on his file to explain when he was available to talk on the 
phone.
Mr B's chargeback claim was successfully processed and the funds credited to his account, 
five days after he'd first contacted Capital One about it. And just over a week after this 
happened, Capital One issued their final response.
Capital One's final response explained their disputes department (that deals with 
chargebacks) only work 9am to 5pm, Monday to Friday. So they didn't agree they'd done 
anything wrong when they couldn't take the details of Mr B's chargeback when he first called 
them. They also explained to Mr B that if needed to make a chargeback in the future, he 
could do so by completing a form online. And he could complete that form at any time that 
was convenient for him. Their final response also addressed calling Mr B during his working 
day. They acknowledged this shouldn't have happened and apologised for their mistake.
Mr B remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Mr B said he'd spoken 
to Capital One on a number of occasions in the days following his first contact with them 
about the chargeback. Some of these calls were to try and start the process of the 
chargeback claim. And others were about his complaint. He said these calls lasted around 
four hours in total; and he'd found the whole situation very stressful. Mr B said he wanted 
£200 to cover the costs of his time, the calls, and to acknowledge the impact the situation 
had on him. He also wanted Capital One's phone lines to be able to deal with chargebacks 
24 hours a day.
 
 
Our investigator upheld Mr B's complaint in part. He said our service couldn't ask Capital 
One to change the way they run their phone lines. And he didn't think Capital One had treated him unfairly when he first called to make a chargeback because he'd done so outside 
the working hours of the relevant department. He also thought Capital One did the right thing 
in their final response when they referred Mr B to the online form he could use going 
forward.
In respect of the calls Capital One made to Mr B, our investigator felt Capital One should 
have done more to put things right. He said Capital One should pay Mr B £100 for the stress 
caused, because they were aware of his availability. Capital One agreed with our 
investigator. But, Mr B didn't, so his complaint was passed to me to deal with.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken everything into account, I agree with our investigator and I'm upholding Mr B's 
complaint, in part. I know this isn't the outcome Mr B wanted, but I'll explain my reasoning 
below.
Mr B's complaint is made up of two parts. Firstly, the fact Capital One can't deal with 
chargeback requests over the phone, 24 hours a day. And secondly, that Capital One 
attempted to call him at times he wasn't available. For clarity, I'll address each point 
separately.
Making chargeback claims over the phone
I should start of by saying that our service doesn't have the power to tell Capital One how 
they should run their business. And that includes the availability of their staff on their phone 
lines. All we can look into is whether a customer, in similar circumstances to Mr B, would 
have been treated the same way.
Capital One has confirmed their disputes department only works Monday to Friday between 
the hours of 9am and 5pm. And it's this team that deals with chargebacks. When Mr B first 
contacted Capital One about his chargeback, he called them on a Sunday, at around 8.30pm 
- so after the relevant department closed. I appreciate this was an important matter for Mr B, 
but the department that could help him weren't available. So, I don't think it was wrong of 
Capital One's adviser to tell Mr B to call back at a different time. In fact, I think that was a 
sensible thing to do. The adviser he spoke to wasn't in a position to deal with the 
chargeback, and had they tried to, this may have caused problems down the line. Mr B 
called on a day the relevant department wasn't working. And I've not seen anything to 
suggest a different customer, with similar circumstances would have been treated any 
differently. So, I can't say Capital One treated Mr B unfairly when they told him they couldn't 
start processing his chargeback claim during that initial call.
 
 
 
 
 Mr B doesn't think the working hours of Capital One's dispute team are reasonable. The first 
reason is because Capital One claim to provide 24 hour support. As mentioned above, we 
can't tell Capital One what hours their departments should work. So, I'm not going to make a 
finding on that point. While those hours may be inconvenient for Mr B, they apply to all 
Capital One customers'. I also can't ignore the fact Mr B was able to speak to someone at 
Capital One at 8.30pm on a Sunday. While they couldn't deal with his specific query, it does 
demonstrate they have advisers available outside normal office hours. I've also 
noted Capital One's final response advised Mr B on how he can submit chargeback claims 
online by completing a form. Capital One has sent us screenshots showing how this form 
can be accessed on their website. And this seems like a reasonable option for Mr B if he 
needs to make chargebacks in the future. 
Mr B's response to our investigator mentioned he's tried to make another chargeback claim 
since this complaint, but he couldn't do so online. I can only comment on the chargeback 
claim Mr B raised at the end of March 2019. So, if he's had subsequent difficulties, he'd need 
to speak to Capital One about that. But while I won't make a finding on the other 
chargeback, the screenshot Mr B sent to support this point was from an online chat - not a 
form as the final response mentioned. So, he may want to call Capital One for further 
guidance on how to access the relevant form.
The second reason Mr B disagrees with the working hours of the dispute team is due to the 
time limits in which chargebacks need to be raised. We don't consider hypothetical 
situations, we only look at what actually in any given complaint. And Capital One's process 
for dealing with chargebacks didn't hinder Mr B from making his claim in time. And I say that 
because the disputed funds were refunded back to his account within five days of his first 
call. So, this point hasn't persuaded me Capital One did anything wrong here.
In light of the above, I don't agree Capital One treated Mr B unfairly by not having their 
dispute team available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Calling Mr B when he was at work
The second part of Mr B's complaint is that Capital One called when he was at work. And 
they did so on two separate occasions, despite him telling them about his availability.
I've seen notes from Capital One's systems. These clearly show Mr B told them when he'd 
be available to talk during his first call about the chargeback. So, it was disappointing to see 
Capital One called him at times they knew he wouldn't be available. This, understandably, 
would have been very frustrating for Mr B - particularly at a time when Capital One knew he 
wasn't happy due to the complaint he'd raised.
I'm  pleased to see Capital One acknowledged they shouldn't have called Mr B at the times 
they did. But this apology doesn't go far enough in putting right the foreseeable frustration 
their mistake would have caused him.
Putting things right
It's always unfortunate if someone needs to raise a chargeback or a complaint. But if that's 
necessary, there's always going to be an element of time and effort involved in getting 
matters like these resolved. Mr B has asked to be reimbursed for the time and money he's 
spent in raising his chargeback, and complaining to Capital One. But, given what I've 
mentioned above, I don't consider that's appropriate in this case.
 However, Mr B made Capital One aware of his availability to take calls at the earliest 
opportunity. So, Mr B, inevitably, would've been disappointed to receive calls when Capital 
One were aware he was at work. Mr B has also told us that Capital One's mistake caused 
him stress and trouble sleeping. So, it's only fair Capital One takes steps to put things right.
Mr B says he'd accept £200 to resolve his complaint. But like our investigator, I consider this 
amount is higher than an appropriate award in these circumstances. While Capital One 
made a mistake, they only attempted to call Mr B on two occasions over a two-day period. 
Mr B promptly let Capital One know he was unhappy with these calls, and Capital one 
apologised for this in their final response letter that was sent 11 days later. So, the matter 
was addressed over a short period of time.
Capital One has agreed to pay £100 in recognition of this mistake. That is slightly higher 
than I would have awarded given the circumstances detailed above, so I consider it's a fair 
and reasonable resolution to Mr B's complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I'm upholding Mr B's complaint, in part.
Capital One (Europe) plc should pay Mr B £100 in recognition of the frustration and 
disappointment caused when they called during the times he told them he wouldn't be 
available.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman