DRN-2632055
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ss representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on their
behalf that they were given unsuitable investment advice by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc,
referred to as RBS.
In summary, the CMC says:
Given their lack of experience, the investment wasnt right for Mr and Mrs S.
Their money wouldve been better off being invested in a fixed rate bond but they 
werent advised about alternative investments.
Placing all of their free assets into just two products/funds based on overseas 
products was unsuitable.
The recommendation was too high risk.
What happened
In my provisional decision of 2 February 2021, a summary of which is quoted below and 
forms part of this final decision, I didnt uphold the complaint because I thought RBS offer 
was fair and reasonable. In summary, I said:
On the face of the evidence and on balance, I think the redress offered by RBS  and in 
turn the basis upon which it upheld this complaint is fair and reasonable.
I dont think Mr and Mrs S shouldve been advised to invest £300,000 of their available funds
 it seems neither party disagrees with this position. On balance, Im satisfied that Mr and
Mrs S were willing and able to invest a portion of their funds in the bond for better returns.
I note the bond met their objective for capital guarantee, as well as a (10%) guaranteed
return, and an opportunity to maximise their potential of capital growth in a tax efficient way.
Given that it was a guaranteed 10% return, there wasnt a negative chance that this wouldnt
happen, unlike a number of similar products on the market that dont offer any guaranteed
returns and are solely dependent on the stockmarket.
On balance I dont think the recommendation  with its guarantees  was unreasonable for
Mr and Mrs S even as first time (inexperienced) investors with a low risk attitude  which Im
persuaded was generally an accurate reflection of their risk appetite at the time.
Despite what the CMC suggests Ive seen nothing to say that they were risk averse and
therefore, unwilling to take any risk at all.
That said, as I alluded to above, I think that Mrs and Mrs S were advised to invest too much
of their available funds, and Im not persuaded that they were left with sufficient cash
reserves.
In the circumstances, and on balance, I think redress based on Mr and Mrs S investing only
£180,400 of the of the £300,000  roughly 60% of their total  as suggested by RBS is fair
and reasonable. Therefore, its reasonable to calculate redress based on the £119,600 that
ought not to have been invested at all using the Bank of England fixed rate bond data.
So, for the reasons set out above I dont think that redress should be calculated using the
entire £300,000 as I think Mr and Mrs S shouldve been advised to invest only a portion of it.
Im mindful of RBSs comments regarding the recommendation to invest another £100,000 
into the RBS investment management service  which I understand the investigator only
mentioned as part of the background to this matter. As its not a part of the complaint Ive not
considered it further.
The CMC responded and accepted my provisional decision. However, it was concerned that 
Mr and Mrs S might not receive any redress if RBS withdrew its offer as I hadnt upheld the 
complaint. 
I asked RBS to confirm that notwithstanding my provisional decision it would still honour its 
original offer, and the primary basis upon which I didnt uphold this complaint. 
RBS responded and confirmed the following:
... The customers referred their concerns to the Service within six months and therefore, if 
the Ombudsman endorses the offer, and as long as the customer accepts the Final Decision 
endorsing the offer, the offer will still be available for the customers to accept and an 
agreement form will be reissued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. 
So, on balance I think RBSs uphold and redress based on Mr and Mrs S investing only 
£180,400 of the of the £300,000  roughly 60% of their total money  as suggested by RBS 
is fair and reasonable. Therefore, I think its reasonable to calculate redress based on the 
£119,600 that ought not to have been invested at all, using the Bank of England fixed rate 
bond data.
I should clarify that theres no suggestion that RBS wasnt going to honour its original offer, if 
Mr and Mrs S accepted my decision, but Im grateful to RBS for the clarification. I only 
sought confirmation from RBS as a result of the concerns expressed by the CMC. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
The offer made by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman