DRN-3766495
The complaint
Mrs S, who is represented by a third party, complains National Westminster Bank Plc didnt 
do enough to help her when she became the victim of a romance scam.
What happened
Mrs S has an account with NatWest.
At the end of September 2021, Mrs S started to talk to someone on a dating website who 
she says she believed was a real, genuine person. Mrs S was, in fact, talking to a scammer.
In November 2021, Mrs S says she was tricked by the scammer into sending $28,000 to a 
business. Mrs S says that this was the second payment the scammer had asked her to send 
 the first one was for $5,000 and was sent from another account she has. 
Mrs S went into branch to make the second payment. NatWest says she told the branch she 
was sending the money to her sister to help her buy a property, that other family members 
were helping and that shed spoken to her sister to confirm the details were genuine. She 
says she was vulnerable, depressed and scared when she made the payments.
Mrs S says the scammer asked her to make a third payment of $75,000 and at that point she 
spoke to her sons as there was no way she could do this. They told her that she was talking 
to a scammer. Mrs S contacted NatWest with the help of her sons to report the scam.
NatWest investigated what had happened and checked to see if it could recover any of the 
$28,000 Mrs S had sent. Having done so, NatWest said that it hadnt been able to recover 
any of the money and that it didnt think it could have done more to prevent the scam.
Mrs S was unhappy with NatWests decision and complained to us saying that it should 
reimburse her as she wasnt asked sufficiently probing questions in branch and there were 
things NatWest could have done to help her realise this was a romance scam.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ss complaint and said that they didnt think 
NatWest could have done more to prevent the scam and that it had used its best 
endeavours to recover the money Mrs S had sent. In the circumstances, they didnt think 
that it would be fair to ask NatWest to do more. Mrs Ss representatives disagreed saying 
that she hadnt told NatWest shed spoken to her sister  that what shed said was she 
spoke to her brother. They also thought the fact that the payment was going to a personal 
account should have concerned NatWest as well as Mrs S being nervous. They asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. So, Ive looked into this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
[Mrs S has  everyone agrees  been the victim of a cruel and elaborate romance scam. 
Before making the payments to the scammer involved, she received sums of money that 
were unusual for her. These sums were either from family members or friends or loan 
proceeds. And the $28,000 payment she made was unusual.
During its investigation, NatWest considered whether or not Mrs S was vulnerable prior to 
making the payments and considered whether the warnings shed been given in branch 
could have been more effective.
Im satisfied that Mrs S was warned about romance scams and that she said no when the 
the branch asked if she was making the payment to someone that shed never actually met 
face to face. And that she also confirmed the payment was to her sister. Im satisfied too that 
she said that shed spoken directly to her sister to confirm the payment details were correct. 
Im satisfied that Mrs S also told NatWest that her brother and another sister were helping 
out and had transferred money into her account. They had, in fact, done so.
Given everything Ive just, Im satisfied that NatWest identified the fact that this was an 
unusual payment and that Mrs S had received unusual payments, but that it also questioned 
her in detail when she came into branch to make sure that she wasnt the victim of a scam 
and that it did what I would expect it to do to help prevent Mrs S being scammed.
The payment was an international payment, meaning CRM doesnt apply and that NatWest 
had to use best endeavours when it came to attempting to recover the payment. Im 
satisfied NatWest did so.
In the circumstances, given what Ive just said, I agree with our investigator that NatWest did 
what was expected of it. Mrs S has clearly been the victim of a cruel and elaborate scam, but 
it wouldnt be fair to say to NatWest that it needs to reimburse her.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman