DRN-4317839
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy with the decision by Hiscox Insurance Company Limited (Hiscox) following 
a claim on her cycle insurance policy.
What happened
Ms D purchased a bike in 2018. Ms D held a cycle insurance policy with Hiscox. The policy 
terms and conditions explained:
We will not make any payment for:
2. theft from your home unless:
g. the cycle and accessories are contained within a cycle hangar and the cycle is
 secured through the frame by an approved lock to an immovable object; or
5. any theft or damage to your cycle or accessories where you cannot provide us with
evidence of ownership.
The definition of approved lock explained c. where the cost of replacement of your cycle as 
new is more than £1,500: Sold Secure Gold grading level.
The definition of evidence of ownership explained:
Evidence of ownership The original purchase receipt, showing the name and address 
of the seller, the date of the sale, the price paid and details of the cycle, accessories 
and approved lock or any other evidence which demonstrates your ownership to our 
satisfaction.
In October 2022 Ms D reported her cycle stolen. Ms D sent a completed claim form, with 
photos evidencing her cycle, and the locks used, in support of her claim. The claim form 
recorded I have three locks for my bike, a wheel lock, my bike, motorbike covered chain lock 
(used) and a K lock ( used) covered multi wire. Ms D searched online to look for images of 
the type of lock and keys used to secure her bike with. The images sent by Ms D were for a 
[brand K] Evolution 1090 Integrated Chain. Ms D also sent photos of the keys used from 
her keyring set. These photos included multiple keys. 
In December Hiscox asked Ms D to provide receipts for the locks and/or any images of the 
bike showing the locks being used. Ms D responded saying Images of K lock and covered 
lock. I do not have receipts this was also mentioned in claim / discussions and email 
correspondence The images requested were for the two locks on the bike. 
On 8 December Ms D sent two photos which showed two different silver keys with a black 
plastic covering. The first key showed the black covering had an indent in the middle with a 
rectangular shape. No text was visible on this key. The second key showed a curved black 
covering, and a circular indent with the letter K in the middle. On this photo, Ms D had typed 
[brand K] key, not main one. came with three keys. Lock cost appx £70.
On 9th February Hiscox asked for additional information to attempt to identify the type of lock 
and that this complies with the locking requirements under the policy. Ms D advised I'm not 
sure which key is for which lock. That is all of the keys, one has a k on it, another is a secure 
digital cut key, think they are called, for heavy motorbike lock, I think . These were a high 
anti-theft gauge; I don't remember the number
Locks
 Security : 8/10
 Locking Mechanism : Key
 Sold Secure Rating : Gold
 Security : 7/15
 Locking Mechanism : Key
 Sold Secure Rating : Bronze
I can't be precise; these are the two lock grades which were on the bike. 
On 13 February Ms D sent an email with two online links to evidence the locks used on her 
bike. These links were for a [brand A] Centuro lock (sold secure bronze), and a [brand K] 
New York Fahgettaboudit Chain And NY Disc Lock Sold Secure Diamond.
 
In March Ms Ds broker sent a further image to Hiscox provided by Ms D for the type of key 
used. There was a close up of the key with the black design which had an indent in the 
middle with a rectangular shape. On this image Ms K had typed [brand K] key, 
spare(unable to read text) Came with 3 keys. 
Hiscox wrote to Ms D rejecting her claim. The decision letter explained the reason for this 
was because Ms D had not provided sufficient evidence to show she had met the policy 
terms to make a successful claim- namely meeting the policy terms relating to the type of 
lock used to secure Ms Ds bike at the time of the reported theft. 
Ms D was unhappy with Hiscoxs decision, and so brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation. The investigator found that Hiscox had acted fairly in 
reaching their decision on Ms D claim because of the lack of evidence supporting Ms Ds 
claim for her stolen bike.  
Ms D didnt agree with the investigators findings saying (amongst other things) They of 
course have evidence of inconsistencies on my part, as they asked me repeatedly for the 
same information, or slightly changing questions they had already had answers to. Over a 
period of months. Why was my evidence not asked for? To prove their intimation and 
inconsistencies that they issued to me about my bike... I paid my fees for over two years; I 
had my bike securely chained with gold standard" locks... I also explained that I did not 
have a couple of the main original keys, each lock had come with one long fob like key and 
three standard keys on purchase, a couple of the fob keys had been lost over the years, I 
was using the standard keys.
During our investigation Hiscox provided additional evidence in support of their decision to 
decline Ms Ds claim. This included a link to [brand K] Keeper 1018 Key Cable Lock with 
Bracket. The link showed the key used for this lock. The key shown for this lock matches the 
key shown in the photos provided by Ms D during the claims process. This is the same key 
that Ms D had told Hiscox about on 8 December 2022 saying [brand K] key, not main one. 
came with three keys. Lock cost appx £70. The cable lock shown to match this key is not a 
Sold Secure Gold grading level lock as required under the terms of Ms Ds policy. As the complaint couldnt be resolved it was passed to me for decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided. Ms D feels strongly that Hiscox have treated her 
unfairly by rejecting her claim. I thank Ms D for taking the time to explain her personal 
circumstances and everything thats happened since the theft of her bike. I understand it has 
been a difficult time for Ms D.  
When we investigate a complaint about an insurers decision on a claim, our role is to 
consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. So Ive 
considered the evidence to determine whether Hiscox have acted fairly and reasonably in 
reaching their decision on Ms Ds claim.    
Ms D says that her bike was secured with a Sold Secure Gold grading level lock, and 
Hiscox have acted unfairly by rejected her claim. Hiscox maintain that their own investigation 
of the evidence provided by Ms D does not support what Ms D has explained about the type 
of lock used to secure her bike with at the time of the reported theft. 
When evidence is contradictory or inconclusive (or both) I have to make a finding on the 
balance of probabilities. That is what I find is most likely to have happened in view of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Like most insurance policies, Ms Ds insurance policy requires the policy terms to be met in 
order for Hiscox to accept a claim. Ive seen that because of the value of Ms Ds bike, Ms Ds 
policy required Ms D to use a Sold Secure Gold grading level lock when securing her bike. 
While Ms D feels strongly that this was the type of lock she had used on her bike, the 
evidence Ive seen doesnt reasonably support this.  
At the very start of the claim Ms D completed a claim form in support of her claim. At the 
same time Ms D sent images of the type of lock used to secure her bike with. Ive seen that 
the image sent was for a brand K lock that would reasonably meet the requirements of the 
policy as it is a Sold Secure Gold grading level lock. In line with the policy terms Ms D was 
asked for proof of purchase of this lock. Ms D explained she didnt have this. Ms D said she 
purchased her bike around 2018. Given the length of time that had passed, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Ms D not to have had this evidence. But I think it was reasonable for 
Hiscox to continue with their investigation to determine if any other evidence could be used 
to support Ms Ds testimony about the type of lock used to secure her bike with. 
Hiscox requested for Ms D to provide images of the key used to secure her bike with. Im 
persuaded it is this evidence that is crucial to this complaint in the absence of Ms D 
providing documentary evidence of her proof of purchase of the locks and keys used. In 
December 2022 Ms D emailed Hiscox a photo of a key with a curved black covering, and a 
circular indent with the letter K in the middle. On this photo, Ms D had typed [brand K] key, 
not main one. came with three keys. Lock cost appx £70. 
The brand Ms D had referenced sells Sold Secure Gold grading level locks. But because of 
the security strength of the lock that Ms D had referenced in her claim form, it is common for 
the accompanying key to be of a very specific type, including its shape and specification. These keys are usually programmable, so that the in-built security features can be utilised in 
the event of theft. I have seen that the key provided by Ms D in support of her claim in 
December 2022, doesnt reasonably match the key type usually used with a brand K Sold 
Secure Gold grading level lock- especially in connection for the lock that Ms D had referred 
to in her claim form as being used to secure her bike with. 
The key that Ms D had provided in December 2022 in fact matches a different lock, also sold 
by brand K. This lock is a [brand K] Keeper 1018 Key Cable Lock with Bracket. An online 
search of this lock shows that the key for this lock is strikingly similar to the photo of the key 
provided by Ms D in December 2022. Im satisfied, on balance, that its more likely than not, 
that the lock used to secure Ms Ds bike was a similar specification and secure rating to the 
[brand K] Keeper 1018 Key Cable Lock with Bracket. Importantly, this lock is not a Sold 
Secure Gold grading level lock as required under the terms of Ms Ds policy.
I have seen that later in the claims process, Ms D provided another photo, showing a 
different key. This key had a black covering which had an indent in the middle with a 
rectangular shape. On this image Ms K had typed [brand K] key, spare(unable to read 
text) Came with 3 keys. This key is completely different to the key Ms D had previously 
described as belonging to the brand K lock used on her bike. Given the discrepancy in the 
information provided by Miss K in support of her claim, and insufficient evidence to support 
the policy terms for using a Sold Secure Gold grading level lock had been met, Im 
persuaded Hiscoxs decision to decline Ms Ds claim is fair and reasonable. 
I accept Ms Ds comments about the number of information requests from Hiscox during the 
claims process. Ms D feels that Hiscox unfairly rejected her claim for different reasons 
throughout the claim. Ive seen that at the start of the claim, Hiscoxs investigation was 
focused on whether the make and model of Ms Ds bike was covered by the policy. This 
resulted in further questions being asked to Ms D. Although I can appreciate the 
inconvenience caused to Ms D by Hiscoxs continual requests for further information, Im 
satisfied this information was being requested in order to fairly assess Ms Ds claim. 
Ms D says that once it was confirmed that her bike spec met the policy terms, Hiscoxs 
investigation turned to the type of locks used. I can appreciate how Ms D felt that Hiscox 
were asking lots of questions for what she thought was a straightforward issue. However, 
Hiscox needed to determine whether the lock used by Ms D met with the policy 
requirements. So although I accept the discussion and information requests on the type of 
locks and keys used lasted many weeks, Im satisfied Hiscoxs actions were reasonable, and 
in line with what this service would expect when dealing with a claim of this type. 
Ms D has explained I also explained that I did not have a couple of the main original keys, 
each lock had come with one long fob like key and three standard keys on purchase, a 
couple of the fob keys had been lost over the years, I was using the standard keys. Ive 
carefully considered Ms Ds comments. Throughout the claims process, although Ms D has 
maintained using a brand K lock to secure her bike, the type of lock that Hiscox needed to 
see evidence of in order to pay Ms Ds claim, was a Sold Secure Gold grading level lock. 
Based on the different (and contradictory) links, photos, and comments made by Ms D on 
the lock and key used on her bike, Im satisfied Hiscox have acted reasonably in informing 
Ms D that theres insufficient evidence to support that the policy terms have been met. 
I appreciate that this will come as a great disappointment to Ms D. But insurance policies do 
not cover every eventuality, and this is one of those circumstances, where I cant see that 
the terms of the policy have been met. For this reason, I cant say that Hiscox have acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in declining Ms Ds claim. Because of this, I wont be asking Hiscox 
to do anything in settlement of Ms Ds complaint.     
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman