DRN-3731670
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that QIC Europe Ltd partly declined a claim they made on their 
buildings insurance policy.
Reference to QIC includes its agents
What happened
Mr and Mrs J hold a buildings insurance policy with QIC. Following an alleged storm, their 
property was damaged, so, they put in a claim with QIC.
QIC declined part of the claim. It said the roof tiles fell off because of poor workmanship, not 
because of the storm, so it wasnt covered by the policy. And it said because of this, the 
damage caused by the falling tiles was also not covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs J were unhappy with this and complained to QIC. QIC didnt change its stance 
so Mr and Mrs J brought their complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended it be upheld. They thought the surveyor who visited 
Mr and Mrs Js property was more persuasive than the one who assessed the claim 
afterward. So, they recommended QIC pay Mr and Mrs Js full claim.
QIC disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why:
Mr and Mrs Js policy with QIC covers them for damaged caused by a storm. It 
doesnt cover them for damage caused by poor workmanship.
We have an established approach to storm damage cases. This approach requires 
me to ask three questions.
oDid storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage was said to 
have happened?
oIs the damage being claimed for consistent with damage caused by a storm?
oWere the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
The first two questions are not in dispute here. QIC acknowledge there was a storm 
which met the definition of the policy. And it acknowledges the damage is consistent 
with damage usually caused by a storm.
The third point is the one that remains in dispute. QIC doesnt think the main cause of 
the damage was the storm. It says the main cause of the damage is the lack of 
mortar of fixing underneath the ridge tiles, which it determines poor workmanship  
and so says theres no cover under the policy.
The attending surveyor makes no mention of lack of mortar of fixings, or of any poor 
workmanship. This report  including the photos - was reviewed by QICs in-house 
surveyor who thought the lack of mortar under the tiles, and evidence of moss in 
places pointed to poor workmanship. And a third surveyor mentions that current 
building regulations require mortar or fixings due to the propertys location.
At this stage in the claim, the burden of proof lies with QIC. Mr and Mrs J have 
passed their burden, the damage is consistent with that caused by a storm, and its 
widely acknowledged a storm occurred. If QIC dont wish to pay the claim, it is for it 
to evidence why.
And here, Im not fully persuaded it has done that. There are conflicting reports from 
the field surveyor and the in-house surveyor. And as the field surveyor attended, Im 
more persuaded by their report. I dont find the third surveyors report conclusive on 
the cause of the damage. The third surveyor mentions current building regulations 
but doesnt mention the regulation at the time this property was built. And while it 
says QIC could question the lack of mortar and conclude incorrect construction 
caused the failure, I dont find this statement decisive either way, especially 
considering the lack of clarity about which building regulations applied at the time.
I think for QIC to fairly decline this claim, it needs to be able to show Mr and Mrs Js 
property wasnt built to the correct standard  it would then be reasonable to deem 
the roofing as poor workmanship in the circumstances. But I dont think its done 
enough to show this.
I think on balance, the storm was the main cause of the damage, and so it follows 
that QIC should pay for the damage to the roof, and the consequential damage 
caused by the falling tiles.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require QIC Europe Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs Js claim for the damage to the roof and the consequential damage 
caused by the falling tiles in line with the remaining terms and limits of the policy 
because I consider this damage most likely to have been caused by the same event 
 the widely acknowledged storm. Any payment should include 8% simple interest 
from the date Mr and Mrs J paid for the works to be completed up to the point QIC 
pay them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman