DRN-1948782
The complaint
 Ms B complains that a car she acquired on a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) was misrepresented to her. 
What happened
I dont intend to set out in great detail the background to Ms Bs case, as the majority of the 
facts are now agreed between the parties. However, in brief, Ms B entered into a hire 
purchase agreement with MBFS the fund the acquisition of a new car costing £26,071.40 on 
28 September 2019. Ms B paid a deposit of £8,000 and was then expected to make 48 
monthly payments of £420.69, after which she could pay a small fee of £10 to transfer 
ownership of the vehicle to herself. As part of the purchase Ms B agreed to pay a monthly 
direct debit for a four year service plan with the dealership, and to buy several insurance 
policies via the dealership, which ended up being financed by a credit agreement with a 
different lender.
Its no longer disputed that the dealership gave Ms B incorrect information about the 
potential fuel economy figures which could be achieved by the car. She was informed the car 
could achieve 42 miles per gallon when the correct figure she should have been quoted was 
35.3 to 39.3 miles per gallon. In reality, Ms B found she was achieving around 25 or fewer 
miles per gallon and expressed concerns about this to the dealership and then to MBFS. A 
health check carried out at the dealership didnt reveal any mechanical issues with the 
vehicle. An independent inspector was then appointed by MBFS to road test the car and was 
able to achieve 34.8 miles per gallon over 100 miles. 
MBFS didnt agree with Ms Bs request to be able to reject the car, but once it became clear 
during our investigators review of the case that the dealership had given incorrect 
information, it agreed that she could do so. The remaining issues in dispute relate to what 
kind of redress Ms B should receive, and as no agreement has been reached on this matter 
the case has been passed to me to decide.
There has been considerable back and forth between our investigator, MBFS and Ms B on 
what a fair resolution to the complaint should look like. Rather than narrate these 
negotiations Ive summarised the current position of all parties below:
Our investigators opinion was that MBFS should:
Cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further for Ms B to pay, and 
remove it from her credit file.
Collect the car at no cost to Ms B.
Refund 10% of all monthly payments that shes made to reflect the fact that her use 
of the car has been impaired.
Refund Ms Bs deposit in full.
Work with Ms B to effect the cancellation of the service plan and the insurance 
policies sold to her by the dealership, covering any costs involved in the cancellation 
process.
Refund any payments made towards the service plan, as Ms B hadnt had the benefit 
of this.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on any refunds, calculated from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
Ms B was broadly in agreement with our investigator, but MBFS was not. In general, it felt 
that the remedy being sought was disproportionately favourable to Ms B, but I could 
summarise its position as follows:
It didnt agree that Ms Bs use of the car had been impaired by the fact she was 
getting a low fuel economy, and her poor fuel economy was caused by the type of 
journeys she went on in any event. There were no faults with the car so it didnt 
understand how a partial refund of repayments for impaired use was fair. 
Returning all of Ms Bs deposit meant she wasnt paying a fair amount for her usage 
of the car. Her monthly repayments would have been reduced by her large deposit, 
meaning she benefited from lower repayments. If all her deposit was refunded, her 
monthly repayments wouldnt be a fair reflection of her use.
It agreed in principle that it would cover the costs involved in Ms B cancelling her 
insurance products and service plan, but it wasnt possible for it to help her with the 
practicalities of getting the policies cancelled as it had no influence over the 
respective insurers.
Removing the agreement from Ms Bs credit file wasnt an accurate reflection of what 
had happened with the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The agreement Ms B entered into with MBFS is regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA). Although MBFS was not involved in the incorrect information given to Ms B, it can 
be held responsible for any incorrect statements made by the dealership which brokered the 
deal. This is because section 56 of the CCA makes the dealership MBFSs agent for the 
purpose of the negotiations leading up to Ms Bs entry into the hire purchase agreement. If 
the impact of the incorrect information is that Ms B entered the agreement when she 
otherwise wouldnt have, then there has been a misrepresentation and in general I think it 
would be fair that Ms B is returned, as far as is practicable, to the position she was in prior to 
her purchase.
Reading between the lines of MBFSs submissions to our investigator, I think its apparent 
that it doesnt believe the incorrect information about the fuel economy really impacted 
Ms Bs purchasing decision  in other words it doesnt think there has been a 
misrepresentation and its offer to Ms B is effectively being made as a gesture of goodwill. 
I can understand MBFSs position. After all, the incorrect information given by the dealership 
was not grossly inaccurate and Ms B has been able to use the car without problems, albeit 
getting a lower fuel economy than she was led to believe could be achievable. If the incorrect information didnt impact Ms Bs decision to enter the hire purchase agreement for 
this car, then there has been no misrepresentation and she may not be entitled to any 
remedy at all.
Our investigator thought the incorrect information was enough to impact Ms Bs decision to 
enter the hire purchase agreement for the car. On balance, I think that was the right 
conclusion. I think its apparent from the evidence available of the negotiations which took 
place before Ms B made her decision to get this specific car, that she was quite particular 
about her requirements and one of them was that the car would have a high fuel economy. 
Im led to understand that the correct fuel economy estimate for this car was a range of 35.3 
to 39.3 miles per gallon, or a single figure of 37.2 miles per gallon. While the difference 
between 39.3 and 42 is not very great, the difference between 35.3 or 37.2, and 42 is in my 
view significant enough that it could have influenced a reasonable persons purchasing 
decision. As fuel economy appears to have been very important to Ms B, I think it is more 
likely than not that the incorrect information she was given did cause her to go ahead when 
otherwise she wouldnt have done so.
MBFS has said that Ms B would never have achieved the fuel economy estimate anyway, 
because she drives the car in an urban setting with heavy traffic, and that she would have 
known her driving patterns would have a negative impact on how many miles she would get 
per gallon. While I suspect this is correct, I dont think its as relevant to the question of 
whether or not Ms B was influenced by the incorrect economy figure as MBFS has 
suggested. Im quite sure that Ms B was aware that she might not achieve the figure quoted 
to her. It is generally well known that official fuel economy figures are not always achieved in 
real-world driving  and I think its probable that Ms B had this in mind when reviewing the 
figure and would have adjusted her expectations accordingly. But she would have been 
using the incorrect figure as a baseline, so she would have still ended up with a misleading 
impression of what was attainable. 
Ultimately, I agree with our investigator that Ms B would not have agreed to go ahead with 
the deal had she been given the correct fuel economy figures. I turn now to the dispute over 
what should be done to put things right.
Putting things right
As I mentioned above, I think Ms B should be put back in the position, as far as is 
practicable, that she was in before she entered the agreement. My starting point is that I 
think its fair that Ms B should be able to treat the agreement as being at an end and to 
return the car, but that she should pay for her use of it. 
MBFS doesnt think Ms B should get all of her deposit back, or have any refund of her 
repayments, but I think MBFS has missed an important point. One of the most common 
structures of a hire purchase agreement in recent years has been to have a large balloon 
payment at the end of the term of the agreement. The amount of this payment is set as the 
expected value of the car at the end of the term. The monthly repayments operate, in such 
an arrangement, effectively as a charge for the monthly use of the car. At the end of the 
agreement, the borrower can pay the balloon payment to complete their purchase if they 
wish.
Ms Bs agreement is different. She has no balloon payment, which means her monthly 
repayments are not just a charge for her use of the vehicle, they are in part a contribution 
towards her ultimate purchase of the car. Because she will be handing the car back, this 
element of her repayments will be lost. So while it may be true that her relatively high 
deposit means her repayments were lower than they would otherwise have been, she will be 
losing part of those repayments for the reason Ive just explained. Redress is not always an exact science, and I dont think it will be possible to work out exactly how much of Ms Bs 
repayments were contributing to purchasing the car. Im aware that Ms B has priced up a 
quote for the same model of car with a balloon payment, but not all of the variables in the 
quote are the same as her hire purchase agreement and so I dont think I can rely on it as a 
guide for determining how her payments were split.
I agree with MBFS that Ms Bs use of the car has not been impaired. As far as Im aware, 
apart from getting a lower than expected fuel economy, she has not experienced other 
issues. The performance and driveability of the car has been unaffected. It appears Ms B 
hasnt used the car a great deal, but I dont think that I could describe her use as having 
been impaired, or confidently attribute her limited use to the lower-than-expected fuel 
economy. On the other hand, I think a partial refund of her repayments is still reasonable, for 
the same reason that I think she should receive all of her deposit back: part of the 
repayments she has made were intended to go towards completing the purchase of the car 
and have been lost because the car is being returned. Our investigator recommended 10% 
of Ms Bs repayments were refunded. Taking a broad view, accounting for the fact that the 
deposit was relatively large and that she will be getting this back in full along with 
compensatory interest, and that her use of the car hasnt been impaired, I think this is a 
reasonable percentage to refund.
There were two other elements of the investigators recommendations which were disputed. 
The first was whether or not the hire purchase agreement should be removed from Ms Bs 
credit file. My view is that it should be  and that is because Ms B would not have entered 
the agreement but for the misrepresentation, so it appears fair to me that her credit file is 
treated as though she hadnt entered into it. 
The second dispute was over the service plan and insurance policies sold by the dealership 
as a part of the purchase, and who would be responsible for cancelling these. Ms B wouldnt 
have taken out any of these linked agreements if there hadnt been a misrepresentation, so 
the same starting position applies as it does to the hire purchase agreement itself: Ms B 
should be returned to the position she would have been in, but should pay for any benefit 
she has received. 
Although Ms B may not have needed to claim on any of the insurance policies, she has been 
covered by them and therefore it would be reasonable that she pays for the cover she has 
had in place. According to the interest-free finance agreement Ms B signed to pay for the 
insurance policies, the money for the policies was paid directly to the dealership. Its most 
likely the dealership paid the necessary policy premiums to the insurers in order for Ms B to 
benefit from the cover. It doesnt appear Ms B has copies of the policy documents. 
I dont think its unreasonable in the circumstances to ask MBFS to work with the dealership 
to assist Ms B in cancelling the policies and receiving a refund for any proportion of her 
cover which hasnt been used. If there are any administrative or other charges involved in 
cancelling the policies, MBFS should cover the cost of these. If the policies are non-
cancellable and no refund is due from the insurer(s) then MBFS should calculate a pro-rata 
refund for the unused proportion of the policies and pay this to Ms B.
It will be up to Ms B to settle the finance agreement which paid for the policies. She may also 
need to speak to the insurers herself in order to cancel the policies, if it turns out the insurers 
will not speak to MBFS or the dealership.
In relation to the service plan, I understand Ms B has paid direct debits for this but has not 
used it to pay for the cars year one service. Again I dont think its unreasonable to ask 
MBFS to work with the dealership to get the service plan cancelled and payments made for it 
refunded. The service plan doesnt appear to be an insurance policy. It looks to be a means of spreading the cost of services over a period of time, so if it has not been used to service 
the car then it would be fair and reasonable for the payments made to be refunded in full.
To put things right, I am therefore directing MBFS to take the following actions:
Arrange for the car to be collected from Ms B at no cost to her.
Cancel the hire purchase agreement, end Ms Bs liability for outstanding or future 
payments, and refund 10% of any monthly payments she has made. 8% simple 
interest* per year should be added to the partially refunded payments, calculated 
from the date Ms B paid them to the date the refund is made.
Refund Ms Bs deposit. 8% simple interest* per year should be added to this refund, 
calculated from the date the deposit was paid to the date it is refunded. 
Pay or otherwise cover any reasonable costs involved in Ms B arranging the 
cancellation of her service plan and optional insurance policies. If Ms B is not sure 
how to get in touch with the insurers to cancel, MBFS should work with the 
dealership to identify the insurers and provide reasonable assistance to Ms B in 
getting the policies cancelled. If the policies are non-cancellable and no refund is due 
from the insurer(s) then MBFS should calculate a pro-rata refund for the unused 
proportion of the policies and pay this to Ms B.
If the service plan has not been used, refund the payments made towards this to 
date, along with 8% simple interest* per year calculated from the date each payment 
was made to the date it is refunded.
Remove the agreement from Ms Bs credit file, as this is the fairest way to record the 
matter given the agreement would not have been entered into but for the incorrect 
information being given about the fuel economy. I note there is a second credit 
agreement with another lender for the insurance policies. I cant ask MBFS to remove 
any record of this other agreement, because they did not lend the money. But if Ms B 
is concerned about the presence of this agreement on her credit file then she can 
speak to the other lender about it. Providing a copy of this decision may be helpful.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MBFS to take tax off this interest. MBFS must 
give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Ms B asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms Bs complaint and direct Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to take the actions set out in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman