DRN-3644563
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly closed his account and lodged a marker with 
a fraud prevention organisation against him.
What happened
Mr W explained that he was approached by a person who he met whilst walking his dog. Ill 
refer to this person as P. P told Mr W that he needed accommodation for the night and was 
owed funds but didnt have a bank account with which to receive money he was owed. P 
asked Mr W if he could use his bank to receive the funds and be given the cash which he 
agreed to do.
Two payments were then received into the account, one for £50 and one for £350 on the 
same day. Mr W then explained that a further £550 was received three days later which he 
was unaware of. During this time, Santander received a report that the first two payments 
were the result of fraud and attempted to contact Mr W about them. Mr W was able to speak 
with Santander and explained what had happened with P. Mr W was asked to provide some 
evidence about P so that the information could be checked. Mr W was unable to give any 
further information about P. Santander removed the third (£550) payment as it was also 
linked to fraud and noted that an attempt was made to move the money soon after it was 
received but was unsuccessful because it was blocked.
Santander decided to close the account and lodged a marker with CIFAS - a fraud 
prevention organisation. Mr W complained to Santander about their decision and after 
reviewing the situation, Santander declined to change their position and Mr Ws account was 
closed.
Mr W was left unhappy with how Santander had treated him as he believed he was also a 
victim of Ps actions. Mr W then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
for an independent review.
Mr Ws complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who thought that Santander 
had acted reasonably and didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. Mr W disagreed with the outcome 
and asked for a further review of the complaint, which has now been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander have to meet specific standards when lodging a marker with CIFAS, essentially 
they must have reasonable suspicion a financial crime or fraud has taken place and that the 
evidence is robust enough to confidently report (Mr W) to the police. Once Santander 
received a report of fraud, Im satisfied they had enough information to satisfy the first 
condition.
Santander attempted to find out more about P from Mr W. He wasnt able to provide any 
other detail apart from a first name. So, there doesnt appear to be any evidence that P 
asked Mr W to receive funds on his behalf. Without further details about P, its difficult to 
confirm this was the arrangement.
If Mr W had received funds without knowledge of their source (that they were somehow 
linked to fraud), then Santander wouldnt be able to lodge the marker because they couldnt 
confidently link Mr W to the fraud. But here, there are aspects to the movement of the funds 
that indicate Mr W received some of those funds himself. Thats different to the version of 
events given by Mr W and is often indicative that the account holder had knowledge of the 
arrangement.
So, I looked at Mr Ws account movements at the time of the incoming payments. Mr W said 
he was to provide cash to Mr W for the incoming funds. On the day of the two payments into 
his account (totalling £400), Mr W made a cash withdrawal of £250 but then transferred £130 
into one of his other accounts in his own name. A further transfer of funds was made for 
about £10 and a direct debit leaving the account effectively removed the incoming fraud 
payments. So, a short time after receiving the fraudulent funds, they were removed from the 
account by Mr W. 
Mr W told Santander that hed transferred funds to his other account to give cash to P. That 
may be the case, but Mr W only sent £130, rather than £150. What that means here is that 
Mr W retained at least £20 from the funds that P sent to him. If Mr W was just helping his 
friend who was in a difficult position, then Im unsure why he retained any of it. 
A few days later a further fraudulent payment was received which Mr W says he was 
unaware of. But, Santanders records show an attempt to send the payment to another 
account was made but prevented. That would indicate it was only Mr W who could have 
attempted to move it because it was an electronic payment to another account. 
I think the retention of funds from the first payment and an attempt to move the second 
payment is more indicative of knowledge about the source of the funds. Its apparent that Mr 
W did have knowledge of the later payment because hed attempted to move it, so I think 
that Santander had reasonable grounds to lodge the marker against Mr W. 
Santander closed the account following this incident, complying with the agreement they had 
with Mr W about account closures. Because Santander considered that the account had 
been used to receive fraudulent funds, I think it was reasonable for them to close it in the 
way they did, and I wont be asking them to change this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman