DRN-2937954
The complaint
Mr M1 (father), Mrs M and Mr M2 (son) have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading 
as Halifax) refused to extend the term of various sub-accounts on their interest-only 
mortgage. They have since had to re-mortgage the property onto a buy-to-let (BTL) 
mortgage and want Halifax to compensate them for the additional interest they are now 
paying on a BTL, rather than a residential, mortgage product, as well as the costs incurred in 
having to take out a BTL mortgage.
Mr M1 has dealt with the complaint on behalf of himself, Mrs M and Mr M2.
What happened
In 2013 Mr M1, Mrs M and Mr M2 took out a mortgage with Halifax to purchase a residential 
property. They borrowed £142,500 over a term of 14 years on an interest-only basis.  The 
mortgage was on a fixed rate until 31 August 2015. The mortgage offer states that the 
repayment vehicle for the mortgage was sale of a second property.
In 2015 a new product was taken out. This was for a three-year fixed rate ending on 
31 January 2018, for a total amount of £115,293, again on an interest-only basis. However, 
the product was split into four sub-accounts, as follows:
Halifax has explained that this was done because the property which was intended to be the 
original repayment vehicle had already been sold. Halifax was told by Mr M1 that the 
repayment vehicle would be Mr M1s pensions. Mr M1 had confirmed to Halifax that he had 
four different pensions which had different maturity dates and so the loan was restructured to 
coincide with the dates when Mr M1 would be accessing his pension funds. The new product 
was accepted by Mr M1, Mrs M and Mr M2.
In 2020, when the terms of sub-accounts 3 and 4 were reaching the end of their terms, a 
term extension of seven years was requested, because Mr M1 no longer wanted to use his 
pensions as the repayment vehicles for the four sub-accounts. After considering this request, 
Halifax declined the extension on an interest-only basis. The bank said that any term 
extension could only be considered on a repayment basis.
Mr M1, on behalf of himself, Mrs M and Mr M2, complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
noted that Mr M1 had explained that there were other resources available to repay the 
mortgage when the sub-accounts expired, but that they didnt want to use these. Mr M1 also 
said that, although his son lived at the property until he had to relocate, they wanted to rent 
out the property with Consent to Let (CTL) from Halifax. The investigator was satisfied that 
this would not have been possible.
In the circumstances, the investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong in its 
decision to decline the term extension.
Mr M1 disagreed and has made some further points, which I summarise:
his pension fund had changed from final salary to money purchase;
combined pension value was over £1million, from which he and Mrs M could have taken 
£250,000 once an extended term expired, which is well in excess of the mortgage 
liability;
he believes he could have obtained CTL from Halifax, because he already had CTL on 
another residential mortgage with a different lender in the Lloyds group of companies, 
and this had been approved annually for eight years;
his, son, whod been living in the property, had had to relocate, but the plan was to let 
the property out temporarily, pending his son returning to the property;
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to thank the parties for their patience while I have been considering this matter. I 
am obliged for the further information provided by Mr M1 and Halifax, and I apologise that a 
request for information which should have gone to Halifax was in error sent to Mr M1. 
However, I now have all the information and evidence I require to decide this case.
The financial conduct authority (FCA) previously carried out a Mortgage Market Review 
(MMR). This led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential 
mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for stricter 
lending assessments  including around affordability and payment strategies for interest-only 
mortgages  aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more 
responsibly.
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulty with this if they passed lending assessments under the old 
rules but not the new ones. So the FCA introduced certain rules to address this which allow 
some of these new rules, particularly around affordability assessments, to be set aside in certain circumstances, if the change being requested to a mortgage  in this case, a term 
extension  was in the customers best interests.
Its important to note, though that these rules dont oblige lenders to make changes to 
mortgages; they merely say that changes dont have to be refused if the criteria are met on 
grounds of affordability or interest-only repayment strategy.
Here the issue was not one of affordability, however. It was in relation to both the interest-
only repayment strategy and the change of use of the property. 
Initially the mortgage was intended to be repaid from the sale of a property. However, that 
property was later sold and so Mr M1 put forward his pension funds as an alternative 
repayment vehicle. Halifax accepted these and adjusted the terms of the mortgage 
accordingly to ensure the mortgage would be repaid in segments as each of Mr M1s 
pensions reached maturity.
I can understand that Mr M1 didnt want to use his pension funds as and when they matured, 
but the contract entered into with Halifax provided for the various interest-only parts of the 
mortgage to be repaid out of these, as and when the various sub-accounts reached the ends 
of their terms  which Mr M1 agreed to at the time. A term extension could only be agreed if 
the accounts were put onto a repayment basis, which Mr M1 did not want.
When considering a request for a term extension, Halifax is expected to consider this on its 
own individual merits, take account of Mr M1, Mrs M and Mr M2s individual circumstances, 
and make exceptions where appropriate. Halifax said that it did consider the individual 
circumstances, and while it was Mr M1, Mrs M and Mr M2s preference not to repay the sub-
accounts as they fell due, Halifax did not think that it was appropriate to extend the terms of 
those sub-accounts on interest-only, given the circumstances of this case.
While it was looking at the request for a term extension, Halifax learned that the property 
was being rented out  and had been for several years. Although Mr M2 had initially lived at 
the property, from at least 2016 the property has been rented out to tenants. Mr M1 says 
Halifax was told about this at the time, but the bank states that it was unaware of it. No CTL 
was requested or obtained. I also note that, in his response to the investigators findings on 
the complaint, Mr M1 appears to have been suggesting that Mr M2 had only recently 
relocated on a temporary basis and was intending to move back into the property. However, 
after I made further enquiries about this, Mr M1 confirmed that the property has been 
tenanted since June 2016. 
Mr M1 says that, rather than take out a BTL mortgage, he would have asked Halifax for CTL 
if the term extensions had been granted. I will explain here that CTL is a concession where 
borrowers who have to move out of their main residence (usually due to a change of 
employment which requires them to relocate) are allowed to rent the property out for a set 
period of time. Halifaxs policy is to allow CTL for a maximum of one year, after which CTL 
has to be renewed. Once the concession ends, the borrowers would be expected either to 
move back into the property, sell it or, if they intend to continue to rent it out, re-mortgage 
onto a BTL mortgage. 
I will explain here that CTL is not intended to be a long-term concession to allow borrowers 
to act as landlords  because this has regulatory implications. This is because residential 
mortgages are not commercial products; they are intended to secure the lending which the 
borrower has taken out in order to purchase the home in which they are living. A residential mortgage offers the borrowers regulatory protection, particularly around lending standards, 
arrears handling and the steps lenders must take to help if the borrowers fall into financial 
difficulty. 
But where, as in this case, the borrowers decide to rent out the property as a long-term 
commercial venture, its not appropriate for them, as landlords, to have a regulated 
residential mortgage. 
Mr M1 has explained that at the time the property was rented out in 2016, he already had 
CTL with another mortgage lender in the Lloyds group (Halifaxs parent company) on 
another property with a residential mortgage which was being rented to tenants  and that 
this situation had existed for about eight years. 
Taking this into consideration, I find that it would not  and could not  have been 
appropriate for Halifax to grant CTL on a second residential mortgaged property where the 
borrowers already had CTL on a different residential mortgaged property. Thats because  
as I explained above  CTL is intended as a temporary concession to allow a borrower to 
rent out a previous main residence because their circumstances warrant it. CTL is not 
intended to be a mechanism by which landlords can rent out more than one property on 
which there is a regulated mortgage.
Mr M1 says his letting agent told him to mention to Halifax that the property was being 
rented out. But I think Mr M1 already knew he would need a formal CTL, as he already had 
this on a different residential property. There is nothing in Halifaxs notes to suggest the bank 
was ever told the property was being used as a long-term rental property, or that Halifax 
consented to this, either explicitly or tacitly. Once Halifax became aware  in 2020  that the 
property was being rented out (and had been since 2016), the bank was not prepared to 
consider any changes to the mortgage. I dont think this is unreasonable.
I appreciate that there were costs involved in re-mortgaging onto a BTL mortgage with a 
different lender (albeit within the Bank of Scotland group), and that this is at a higher interest 
rate than the residential mortgage Mr M1, Mrs M and Mr M2 previously had with Halifax. But 
I dont think Halifax did anything wrong in declining the term extension on the residential 
mortgage, given that the use of the property had changed since the product switch in 2015. I 
also dont think Halifax was under any obligation to consider granting CTL.
In all the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Halifax acted unreasonably in declining the 
term extension on this mortgage. Mr M1 has confirmed that there were sufficient funds 
available to repay the sub-accounts as they fell due. But in any event, the use of the property 
had changed from residential to tenanted since the product switch in 2015, and so Halifax 
was under no obligation to put in place any changes to the mortgage as a result.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M1, Mrs M and 
Mr M2 to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman