DRN-3192034
The complaint
Miss B complains that Loans 2 Go Limited provided her with a loan she was unable to afford 
to repay.
What happened
In December 2019 Miss B made an application online to Loans 2 Go Limited. This was for 
£500. The reason for the loan is not recorded. The loan was to be repaid over a period of 18 
months at the rate of £114.28. The APR was 1,013.2%.
Miss B got into immediate difficulties after receiving the loan and asked to cancel it. She was 
given a repayment figure. However she didnt repay the loan but paid one instalment in 
December 2019 and a further payment of £250 in February 2020. She made no further 
payments but contacted Loans 2 Go in July 2020 saying the loan was unaffordable and 
shouldnt have been given to her. She asked for her interest charges to be remitted and 
offered to pay the balance at £30 per month.
Loans 2 Go offered to remit half the outstanding balance, meaning that £846.38 would be 
payable. Miss B rejected this.
On referral to this service our adjudicator said that, based on the term and the cost of these 
loans, she thought the checks carried out were proportionate. But she determined that Loans 
2 Go hadnt a made a fair lending decision based on the results of these checks. She noted 
that Loans 2 Go had assessed Miss Bs monthly income as £2,000, and its credit checks 
would have recorded that she had an overdraft of £14,140, and had a credit card used to its 
limit, and two loans. She said that Loans to Go should refund Miss Bs interest and any other 
charges, and treat any payments made as reducing the capital balance.
Loans 2 Go disagreed. Whilst it accepted that Miss B had other credit commitments the 
credit report showed that these were being maintained and were within their limits. It didnt 
think that this would be sufficient to argue that the loan itself was lent irresponsibly at the 
time. It noted that there were no CCJs or defaults listed or any other signs of financial 
detriment. With regard to the overdraft, it said this was a short term service that banks offer 
and does not necessarily indicate that the customer is facing financial difficulty, especially as 
she was up to date with payments on all her credit commitments.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to consider whether Loans 2 Go completed reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Miss B would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way and/or without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences. Then taking that into account I have to 
consider whether in the circumstances Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision.
In this case Loans 2 Go used a credit reference agency to verify Miss Bs bank account, and 
carried out an income verification check. It determined that Miss B had earned a minimum 
income of £2,000 per month in the previous 12 months (as opposed to the £3,150 she had 
declared in her loan application). Together with the fact that her credit payments were up to 
date, it said that, for the loan it was providing it believed it had loaned her the money 
responsibly.
I have seen Miss Bs bank statements for the period up to the date of the loan. From these I 
think its clear that she had a very substantial overdraft (£14,140 at the time) and that she 
was near her limit on this. She hadnt been able to reduce the overdraft and it had stayed at 
or near this figure for a number of months. Her salary whilst it fluctuated was more like 
£1,600 per month (she advised us it when she made her complaint it was around £1,500 per 
month). She had also been paying out on two high cost loans (although one had nearly been 
paid off by December 2019).
I think that bearing in mind the very high overdraft figure as against her income and the fact 
that Loans 2 Go could see from its credit check that she was making more credit payments 
than she declared on the application, Loans 2 Go should have carried out further checks. 
And as this related to her current account this should have included verifying some of the 
information Miss B provided especially her outgoings in relation to her credit commitments. 
Had Loans 2 Go done this, it would in my view have revealed that Miss B wouldnt have 
been able to pay any further loans from her income. 
So I think that Loans to Go shouldnt have loaned Miss B the money and didnt make a fair 
lending decision. Its entitled to receive its capital payment back, but should credit back to 
the account all interest and other charges as set out below. 
Putting things right
Loans 2 Go should:
Credit back to the account all interest and other charges.
Add up the total amount of money Miss B received as a result of having been given this 
loan. The repayments Miss B made should be deducted from this amount
If this results in Miss B having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
For any capital balance that remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss B. 
Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Bs credit file regarding this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go is to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Loans 2 Go Limited to provide the remedy set out under 
Putting things right above.     Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman