DRN-2568862
The complaint
Ms A complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim against her travel 
insurance policy. Reference to AXA includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
Ms A has travel insurance as a benefit of her bank account. She planned a trip with 
intended departure and return dates of 8 February 2020 and 28 April 2020 respectively. 
During Ms As trip - on 23 March 2020 - the Foreign Secretary advised all UK tourists 
abroad to return home due to Covid-19. 
I understand that the airline cancelled Ms As return flight. Ms A says that she phoned 
AXA on 5 April 2020. Ill refer to that phone call in more detail below. Ms A bought a 
repatriation flight, departing on 10 April 2020. Ms A says that her baggage allowance 
was less than on her original return flight, so she left some luggage behind. 
Ms A says that she couldnt return home as she lives with her elderly father. So, she 
booked accommodation in which to isolate. She spoke with AXA again on 15 April 2021 
and made a claim against her policy in relation to:
the cost of the repatriation flight; 
accommodation in the UK in which to isolate;
taxi fares; 
luggage she left behind;
hospital benefit.
AXA said it would pay a maximum of £50 for taxi fares, as Ms A didnt have any receipts. 
It said that it would deal with the cost of Ms As repatriation flight on provision of further 
information. It declined the parts of Ms As claim relating to accommodation costs in the 
UK, luggage she left behind and hospital benefit. 
Ms A says that when she spoke with AXA on 5 and 15 April 2020, it told her that she 
could claim for accommodation costs in the UK, luggage she left behind and hospital 
benefit. 
In response to Ms As complaint, AXA apologised for any incorrect information Ms A may 
have been given and paid her compensation of £150 in relation to that but didnt change 
its position in relation to her claim. Ms A pursued her complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that AXA had 
acted unfairly in declining part of Ms As claim. The investigator said that Ms As phone 
call on 5 April 2020, was to her bank and whilst the recording of the call isnt available, 
the contact notes dont support her recollection about what she was told. 
Ms A didnt agree with the investigator. She said that the investigator hadnt considered 
her call to AXA on 15 April 2020, in which it agreed to settle her claim. Ms A asked that 
the investigator request call notes for that call. 
The investigator said that he had considered Ms As call to AXA on 15 April 2020, and 
the notes dont support Ms As recollection of what was said. He said that AXAs apology 
for any incorrect information Ms A may have been given and its payment of 
compensation of £150 was sufficient in this case. Ms A asked that an ombudsman 
consider her complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are as 
follows:
 
Section A  Cancellation or curtailment charges and early return
What is covered
We will pay You up to £5,000 [] for any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation 
costs [] and other pre-paid charges [] which You have paid or are contracted to pay 
together with any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if:
a. cancellation of the Trip is necessary and unavoidable or 
b. the Trip is Curtailed before completion
c.You have to make an Early Return
as a result of any of the following events occurring:
[]
7. A government directive prohibiting all travel to, or recommending evacuation from, the 
country or area You were planning to visit or were staying in provided such a directive came 
into force after You have left the United Kingdom.
Section C  Hospital benefit
What is covered
We will pay You £50 for every complete 24 hours You have to stay in hospital as an           
in-patient or are confined to Your accommodation due to Your compulsory quarantine or on 
the orders of a Medical Practitioner outside Your Home Area, up to a maximum of £1,000 
as a result of Bodily Injury, illness or disease You sustain.
Home Area
For residents of United Kingdom excluding Channel Islands and Isle of Man Your Home 
Area means United Kingdom excluding Channel Islands and Isle of Man. [].Section E  Baggage and baggage delay
What is covered 
1.We will pay You up to the amounts shown below for the accidental loss of, theft or  
damage to:
a.Baggage and Valuables [] £2,500. []
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Ms As complaint because I dont think that AXA treated her unfairly in 
declining part of her claim. I say that because:
additional accommodation costs
In the circumstances that arose here, Ms As policy covers irrecoverable unused 
accommodation costs: it doesnt cover addition accommodation costs. So, I dont 
think that AXA acted unfairly in declining this part of Ms As claim.
luggage Ms A left behind
Subject to certain policy terms, Ms As policy covers accidental loss of, theft or 
damage to baggage but thats not what happened here. Ms A left part of her luggage 
behind because her repatriation flight had a lower baggage allowance than her 
planned return flight. Thats not something that the policy covers. 
AXA has said that if Ms As luggage is still at her destination they will cover the cost 
of a courier to return the luggage, up to the policy limit of £2,500 and subject to the 
policy terms. I think thats fair. If Ms A wishes to take up this offer she should contact 
AXA direct about what information she needs to provide. 
hospital benefit
The hospital benefit section of Ms As policy provides for a daily amount payable on 
confinement in accommodation outside the home area and as a result of bodily 
injury, illness or disease sustained. Ms As accommodation was within her home area 
and she hadnt sustained bodily injury, illness or disease. So, I dont think that AXA 
acted unfairly in declining this part of Ms As claim. 
the information Ms A was given
Ms A says that she received incorrect information from AXA on 5 and 15 April 2020. 
The recordings of those phone calls arent available. Thats not unusual, as not all 
calls are recorded or retained. 
Based on what Ive seen, it appears that Ms A phoned the bank on 5 April 2020, not 
AXA. Its not clear to me that the bank was acting as AXAs agent when it spoke to 
Ms A on 5 April 2020. But, even if it was, the banks notes of that call dont support 
Ms As recollection of what she was told. I dont think I can fairly conclude that AXA 
was at fault in relation to information given to Ms A on 5 April 2020.In its final response to Ms A, AXA apologised for any incorrect information it may 
have given to Ms A and paid compensation of £150 in relation to that. I think thats 
fair. In those circumstances, I dont think that its necessary to ask AXA to provide 
any further information about Ms As call on 15 April 2020, as it wouldnt alter the 
outcome here. 
In cases like this, where an insurer may have given incorrect information, we dont 
proceed on the basis that the incorrect information is true: we look to see what effect 
the incorrect information had on the individual. Here, Ms A would have been 
disappointed to discover the true position. In the particular circumstances of this 
case, any incorrect information AXA gave to Ms A doesnt alter the fact that her 
policy doesnt cover several elements of her claim.
settlement of the part of Ms As claim relating to her repatriation flight
Ms A has told this service that she has now received a refund of £234.40 from her 
flight provider. Ms A should provide AXA with evidence of that refund and it can then 
deal with the part of Ms As claim relating to her repatriation flight. 
Considering everything and for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think that AXA treated 
Ms A unfairly in declining parts of her claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is  that I dont uphold Ms As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman