DRN-3555234
The complaint
Mr W says Admiral Insurance Company Limited hasnt treated him fairly in relation to a claim 
he made on his car insurance policy.
All references in this decision to Admiral include its appointed administrative agents. 
What happened
Unfortunately, Mr Ws car was stolen in 2021 and he notified Admiral of his claim. Admiral 
made an initial offer in settlement of the claim to Mr W, which he rejected. The policy terms 
allowed him to request a new vehicle replacement and Admiral instructed a third party to try 
and find Mr W a suitable replacement car. When it became apparent that a new car wouldnt 
become available until 2023, Admiral again offered Mr W what it considered the market 
value of the car. 
Mr W rejected Admirals offer, considering it to be too low and insufficient to cover the 
outstanding finance on the car. Admiral agreed with Mr W that it hadnt handled the claim 
well and increased its offer to £45,600 plus interest. It apologised for any inconvenience 
caused and offered an additional £100 as compensation.  
Unhappy with Admirals response, Mr W brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint and recommended that it shouldnt be upheld. They 
said Admiral was entitled to offer Mr W the market value for his car since it seemed a car of 
the same model and specification wasnt available from UK stock. The investigator also felt 
the amounts offered to Mr W  both for the car and for the inconvenience Admiral had 
caused him  were fair. 
As Mr W didnt agree with the investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh. In summary, Mr Ws latest response included that Admiral could have done 
more to source a like-for-like replacement car, for example by finding pre-registered 
unowned cars from the manufacturers approved dealers. Mr W also didnt agree with 
Admirals view of the cars market value, pointing out its first offer was nearly £10,000 less 
than its last.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, let me say how sorry I am that Mr Ws car was stolen. I realise this would have been 
upsetting for him, even without having to then deal with making a claim on his car insurance 
and all that involves. 
That said, Ive focussed on the actions of Admiral as the insurer in this case once it was 
made aware of the theft, rather than focussing on the theft itself or the impact of that on 
Mr W.
I think the starting point in considering whether Admiral dealt with the claim fairly is to review 
the policy terms. Among other things, and in summary, they say:
Admiral might replace a car thats less than 12 months old when its stolen and 
unrecovered, if certain conditions are met.
If the insured doesnt want Admiral to replace their car, or a car of the same model 
and specification isnt available from UK stock, it will pay no more than the market 
value.
Market value is defined as the cost of replacing the car with one of a similar make, 
mode, year, mileage and condition based on market prices immediately before the 
loss happened. The value will be based on research from industry recognised motor 
trade guides.
I can see that there were difficulties in finding a replacement car of the same model and 
specification from UK stock. Admiral instructed a third-party vehicle replacement firm who 
confirmed in October 2021 that there were no suitable cars in stock. It said there was a long 
wait for factory orders and that Mr W was unable to wait that long. The firm added that a 
certain pack of optional extras also wasnt available due to the global shortage of 
semiconductors. 
Although Mr Ws raised the possibility of Admiral sourcing a pre-registered car, I cant fairly 
require it to do so given the wording of the policy terms and the clear intention of them. 
Essentially, a pre-registered car is still technically used and isnt new. 
In terms of the market value offered by Admiral, Im aware that its initial offer was 
significantly lower than its latest offer. I can understand why Mr W might be suspicious as to 
how Admiral arrived at the figure of £45,600. However, Ive carefully considered the latest 
offer and Im satisfied that its a fair one. I say that because, as per the policy terms and our 
approach to car valuations, I can see that Admiral based the amount on research from 
certain recognised motor trade guides. 
In fact, if anything, the approach Admirals taken most recently in Mr Ws case favours him. 
Thats because its resulted in an offer thats higher than it would have made had it followed 
the approach wed have expected it to take. 
I recognise that Admirals offer might leave Mr W with a shortfall on his car finance. And that 
hes in this situation through no fault of his own. But that doesnt mean that Admirals 
ultimately worked out the market value incorrectly or unfairly.
Overall, I think Admirals settlement offer  which also includes interest  is fair in the 
circumstances.
As Ive mentioned, the parties agree Admiral could, and should, have dealt with the claim 
better than it did. Ive little doubt this added to the distress and inconvenience Mr W was 
already experiencing due to the theft of his car.
Ive seen that Admirals apologised to Mr W for its actions and their impact and offered £100 
as compensation. Taking everything into account, I dont think Admiral need offer any more. My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman