DRN-3497410
The complaint
Mr A complains that he wasnt warned about problems which were likely to arise with the 
valuation of his property, before he paid a valuation fee of £2,250 to Hampshire Trust Bank 
Plc (HTB). Mr A said these problems were foreseeable, and he wanted the fee refunded.
What happened
Mr A said he applied, via a broker, to remortgage a buy-to-let property he owns. He said they 
chose HTB as it accepts BTL mortgages where the block has shared utilities, which many 
other lenders will no longer accept. Mr A said that the application was agreed in principle, 
and hed given HTB key information about the building. 
Mr A said he paid the valuation fee of £2,250, but then the valuation came back at over 
£350,000 lower than the previous one, done only six years ago. Mr A said that the valuer 
wouldnt change his mind. The valuation was done on the basis that the building was a 
House in Multiple Occupation (HMO) which he didnt dispute. But Mr A said that HTB must 
have known that industry rules had changed since his last mortgage, and that buildings such 
as his are now valued at much less than before. Mr A said that HTB didnt ask any detailed 
questions regarding the setup of the building, planning permission or licensing. Mr A said 
that if HTB had told him about the restricted lending and valuation levels in this area, he 
would not have spent this amount of money on the valuation.
Mr A wanted to pay back the valuation fee.
HTB didnt think it had done anything wrong. It sent our service the valuation report for 
Mr As building. It showed us his complaint to it, which said that the building should be 
valued as a block of flats, not an HMO. And it showed us the reply provided by its valuers, 
saying that the building couldnt be valued as a block of flats until planning permission was in 
place to support this status. 
HTB has shown us that it told Mr A it couldnt go ahead with a valuation on the basis that the 
building was a block of flats until the planning permission reflected that. It also showed us a 
letter from Mr A, which said that he thought his case was not properly assessed before 
proceeding to valuation. He said HTB knew the building was divided into a number of 
separate units, and that utilities were on one single supply. So he thought HTB should have 
notified him that the property could be an HMO. And it should also have notified him that 
these types of property are significantly undervalued. He said its underwriters must know 
this, and should have told him before he spent the £2250 valuation fee.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that HTB, as a 
responsible lender, has to establish that the value of the property its lending on is accurate. 
It instructed appropriately qualified surveyors, who provided that valuation. Although the 
value given was considerably less than a previous valuation done some years ago, our 
investigator said that the surveyors had confirmed to HTB that the current valuation was 
accurate, based on the building layout. So thats what HTB had based its decisions on. 
Our investigator didnt think HTB had made a mistake. It wasnt responsible for the 
difference between Mr As old valuation and the new one. He didnt think HTB had to pay 
back the fee Mr A had paid. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said his broker fully explained the situation regarding the building 
layout, and they were assured HTB would assess the building as a multi block unit but on 
one title and one set of utilities. Mr A said that at this point HTB should have stated that the 
valuer may be assessed in a different way if it was aware of any rule changes since 2015.
Mr A wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Like our investigator, I think HTB instructed appropriately qualified surveyors to give a 
valuation of Mr As property. When Mr A expressed concerns about that valuation, and said 
he thought that the building had been valued on the wrong basis, HTB discussed that with its 
surveyors. HTB then relied on its expert, the surveyors, who said this wasnt possible at the 
moment, because the planning permission wasnt in place to support this. It offered to 
reconsider if Mr A was able to obtain this permission.
Mr A then said HTB should have realised that his property was likely to be an HMO, and 
warned him this could mean the valuation would be substantially lower than any previously 
obtained. But I simply wouldnt expect HTB to know that. Its not an expert on property 
values. It relies on the experts it instructs to tell it about the property, including any licensing 
or planning permission issues for particular building types, and to assess the overall impact 
this has on the value of the property to be mortgaged. 
I can see that this is what happened here, Mr A paid the valuation fee, HTB sought an expert 
report, and that report raised the issues which Mr A is concerned about. I know Mr A thinks 
that the issue here is a change in legislation since his last valuation, which has affected the 
value of his property. But that too is a matter that I would expect HTB to rely on its valuation 
experts to tell it about. So I dont think that HTB could reasonably have been expected to be 
aware of these issues, and to warn Mr A about them, before the fee was paid. For that 
reason, I dont think that HTB has to pay back the fee it charged Mr A.
I know that Mr A will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman