DRN-3237059
The complaint
Mr S complains that Citibank UK Limited charged him an account fee despite him not 
agreeing to it.
What happened
Mr S says Citibank told him in July 2020 that it would charge him an account fee if he had 
less than a certain amount in his accounts. He says he didnt respond to the e-mail from 
Citibank and it should have closed his account in those circumstances. Mr S says he was 
charged fees in October and November 2020 of just under $200 which he says was 
excessive. He would like the charges refunded.
Citibank says it acted in line with account terms and conditions and told Mr S in three e-mails 
that it intended to make the charges. It says its records confirm that the three e-mails it sent 
Mr S were opened and it gave Mr S some four months notice of the charges.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Citibank sent Mr S three e-mails about the charge which he opened and that he was 
told the charge would be applied unless Mr S instructed otherwise. The investigator also 
thought a reasonable time period was provided and that Citibank acted in line with account 
terms and conditions.
Mr S says Citibank isnt allowed to make up charges and, in any event, says the charges 
were outrageous. He maintains Citibank ought to have closed his account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at Mr Ss account terms and conditions which I think he would have 
agreed to when the account was opened. Those account terms and conditions make clear 
the circumstances in which Citibank is entitled to charge a monthly account fee. I have also 
looked at Mr Ss account statements and Im satisfied that Citibank was entitled to charge a 
fee here. So, I dont think Citibank made a mistake by making the charge and find it was 
applied in line with agreed account terms and conditions.
I can see that Citibank told Mr S in May 2020 that it intended to charge the account fee. I can 
also see Citibank resent that information later in May 2020 and again in July 2020. There is 
no dispute here that Mr S was aware of the pending charge. Im satisfied that Citibank gave 
Mr S ample time to avoid the charge which wasnt applied until October 2020. And I would 
have expected Mr S, if he no longer wanted the account, to have told Citibank that. I dont 
think the onus was on Citibank to close the account and am satisfied that Citibank made 
clear that the charge would be made unless Mr S told it otherwise, by closing the account or 
increasing the balance. It follows that I cant fairly order Citibank to refund the fee and am 
satisfied it acted fairly by telling Mr S on three occasions, well in advance, that a charge 
would be made. I make clear that having looked at Citibanks records that Im satisfied all of 
the three e-mails were opened.
I appreciate Mr S says the monthly charge was excessive. But I have made clear that Im 
satisfied that Mr S agreed to it and could have avoided it. It is not our role to decide if an 
account fee is excessive in any event. I also appreciate Mr S says Citibank should not treat 
its customers unfairly. I again make clear to Mr S that I can only consider his complaint and 
not the wider interests of Citibanks customers. And for the reasons I have explained I find 
Citibank did treat Mr S fairly by clearly telling him what the fee would be and allowing some 
four months for him to decide if he wished to pay it or close his account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman