DRN-2762876
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the service they received from Roebridge Financial 
Management Limited (RFML) as they dont believe they received all of the advice they paid 
for. They are also unhappy that RFML declined to provide further advice and terminated their 
professional relationship, requiring them seek a new financial adviser at an additional cost. 
What happened
In January 2018 Mr C contacted RFML for independent financial advice. RFML had 
previously advised Mr Cs mother, who sadly passed away in August 2017. Mr and Mrs C 
sought advice on a range of matters initially recorded at the time as:
investment advice for a capital sum of £75k as tax efficiently as possible in line with 
their attitude to risk, including maximizing their Individual Savings Accounts (ISA) 
allowances
review current ISA investment for performance suitability and risk in Mrs Cs name
review another ISA in Mrs Cs name
offer comments and guidance in respect of Mr Cs Teachers Pension Scheme (TPS) 
in relation to the annual allowance, tapered allowance, carry forward and the Lifetime 
Allowance (LTA)
review Mr and Mrs Cs additional voluntary contribution (AVC) arrangements
review Mrs Cs stakeholder pension plan
consider the ways to hold cash for emergencies and immediate needs
review the life/critical illness insurance and family protection plans
consider their position if either were to die before retirement.
RFML said, given the number of things Mr and Mrs C wished looked at, it was agreed that 
these would be dealt with over a period of time and not all at once.
 
A Service and Fee Agreement was issued to Mr and Mrs C in February 2018 and signed and 
returned to RFML on 17 April 2018. This set out the initial and ongoing services RFML would 
provide and detailed the agreed fee payable. It stated the adviser would initially:
Undertake initial discussions and collection of information and preparation of the 
Personal Fact Find.
Undertake an investment review, make recommendations to invest £75,000 and 
review your existing capital investments and regular savings plans.
Conduct a pension review of Mr Cs TPS membership including guidance in respect of 
annual allowance, tapered relief carry forward and Lifetime Allowance.
Conduct reviews of existing AVC and Personal Pension arrangements. 
The Service and Fee agreement set out the initial fee for this agreed work as £3,510 or time 
costed as per our About our Costs & Services (estimated time approximately 18 hours at 
£195ph) and also specified that advice relating to protection planning and review of existing 
contracts would be provided and paid for by commission. 
In addition, RFML agreed to provide certain ongoing services, for a separate fee, including a 
Financial Review Service on the investments and pensions. As explained in the About our 
Costs & Services document, the ongoing Service is designed to provide periodic reviews to 
ensure that recommended products remain relevant to [the consumers] circumstances.
In July 2018, RFML sent Mr C a letter in connection with his TPS membership and 
contribution allowances. This letter set out Mrs Cs position regarding the LTA and provided 
guidance on what Mr C should consider discussing with TPS. The third paragraph set out, in 
bold, the following:
Therefore to be clear in this context no advice is being given in this letter. I am not an 
expert on the TPS and you will only be able to obtain specific advice from the 
administrators and trustees of that scheme. 
This letter concluded that RMFL would be in touch in due course regarding the other matters 
under review. 
Over the next few months RFML continued to collect information from Mr and Mrs C and 
started putting together the full financial report addressing the remaining investment and 
protection issues. RFML have said at this point the scope of the report changed slightly due 
to a change in Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances. 
RFML sent Mr and Mrs C an interim invoice for £1,000 dated 18 November 2018. The 
invoice was for work done to date, including communications and information gathering, as 
well as the July 2018 letter regarding Mr Cs TPS membership. RFML said the invoice was 
settled on 25 November 2018. 
RFML issued a Financial Planning Review and Recommendations report on 14 March 2019. 
The scope of the report was outlined in the introduction and provided advice and 
recommendations regarding Mr and Mrs Cs existing personal pension arrangements, ISAs 
and protection policies. It also recommended a policy to cover the proposed increase in their 
mortgage to help fund the purchase of a property overseas. 
Along with the report, a letter detailing the next steps and final cost of the services provided 
was included RFML said the cost of the actual work it did was £6,285 but it confirmed that it 
would accept £4,990 in total (£3,990 outstanding). There was some back and forth between 
the parties regarding RFMLs fee and ultimately RFML agreed to accept £3,500 in total for 
the services provided. The £2,500 outstanding was settled on 26 June 2019. 
Mr and Mrs C accepted nearly all of RFMLs recommendations as evidenced by the 
declaration they signed dated 20 August 2019. The investment advice was actioned in 
September 2019, the ISA took a little longer and the life insurance recommended was set up 
in January 2020. RFML have said that at this stage all agreed services had been provided. 
In December 2019 Mr C emailed RFML seeking advice about his TPS and how to mitigate 
the LTA and annual allowances charges. Mr C also told RFML that he had attended a TPS 
retirement planning seminar and met with a financial adviser. RFML responded on 
16 December 2019 saying in relevant part:
Although you have been allocated a financial adviser by the pension scheme this 
service is generally provided to assist members who have not taken financial planning 
advice before and therefore dont have a qualified independent adviser.
This of course isnt your situation and as your appointed financial adviser we have 
already carried out a pension review of your pensions.As part of our ongoing review process we will be monitoring your overall pension 
position. This will include looking at your teachers pension annually to see what action 
you should be taking in the light of legislation and your overall financial planning 
needs. We do this by considering all the other information we have collected from you. 
RFML have said that this information was not correct and the Service and Fee Agreement in 
place at that time did not cover advice relating to Mr Cs TPS membership. 
In January 2020, Mr C emailed RFML with an update of his and Mrs Cs circumstances and 
asked RFML to recommend what he should do regarding his TPS membership because he 
kept exceeding the annual allowance. A week later the RFML adviser responded that she 
was happy to provide the advice sought regarding Mr Cs TPS membership and explained 
that this is a very complex area of advice and an awful lot of information is required to get all 
of the calculations completed to advise you accordingly. A further fee agreement was 
enclosed for Mr C to sign and return. 
Mr C replied a few days later, unhappy that a further fee was required for this advice. He 
said in part:
I clearly have totally misunderstood the level of financial advice, especially in relation 
to my Teachers Pension. I am not willing to commit to any additional costs for financial 
advice, particularly when there is no evidence of the benefit [Mrs C] and I received 
from the advice. 
Later that day the adviser responded and said it is clear we have had a fundamental 
breakdown of communications and she couldnt see how it could be resolved. So the 
adviser provided notice terminating the professional relationship between RFML and Mr and 
Mrs C. In the email, the adviser also included information about how their investments had 
performed to date. This showed a total gain of over £4,000 (more than the fees paid).
Mr and Mrs C later received correspondence from their investment product provider (which 
Ill refer to as B) informing them that in order to hold an account with it, they had to have an 
FCA authorised adviser servicing it. So Mr C wrote to RFML asking for an explanation of 
why the professional relationship was terminated and asked if they would be receiving a 
refund since they now had to engage another financial adviser. 
Mr and Mrs C subsequently complained. RFML didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that 
under the terms of the service agreement, either party could terminate their relationship at 
any time without explanation. RFML also explained it agreed to provide Mr C with guidance 
on his TPS membership and it did so in its July 2018 letter. Mr C later requested specific 
advice about this in January 2020. This was not covered by the original agreement and so a 
new service and fee agreement was sent, but Mr C didnt want to pay for this service. RFML 
concluded that it wouldnt be appropriate for them to be reinstated as Mr and Mrs Cs 
financial adviser.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs C brought their complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the issues raised but didnt think RFML had acted unfairly. He was 
satisfied that RFML provided the services agreed and hadnt acted unreasonably by 
terminating the relationship.
In response to the investigators view Mr and Mrs C noted RFMLs 16 December 2019 email 
saying that its ongoing review service involved looking at Mr Cs TPS membership annually 
to see what action he should be taking and said: it is this paragraph that we feel your report has not sufficiently addressed. It is due to 
RFML stating that their service included monitoring of our overall pension position; and 
that this included looking at your teachers pension annually to see what action you 
should be taking in the light of legislation and your overall financial planning needs, 
that we were unhappy about the further fee requested to advise in relation to my 
pension.
The investigator responded that the statements made in the email were made in error and 
that the ongoing advice in relation to Mr Cs TPS membership was not included in the 
original fee and services agreement. 
As agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr and Mrs C and by RFML. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I 
have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the industry regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Instead, this service looks to resolve individual 
complaints between a consumer and a business. In order to uphold a complaint I would 
need to find that something has gone wrong and that a consumer has lost out as a result. I 
would then ask the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is 
possible, in the position they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I understand that Mr and Mrs C believe they have not received the advice and services 
RFML agreed to provide and are unhappy that RFML terminated its professional relationship 
with them when they sought to access the services they thought theyd already paid for  
namely, advice regarding Mr Cs TPS pension. I know that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs C, but having carefully considered everything Ive been 
provided, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same 
reasons. 
According to the terms of the Service and Fee agreement, RFML agreed to offer comments 
and guidance in respect of Mr Cs Teachers Pension Scheme (TPS) in relation to the annual 
allowance, tapered allowance, carry forward and the Lifetime Allowance (LTA). RFML said 
its July 2018 letter to Mr C setting out his position with regard to contribution allowances set 
out the guidance it agreed to provide. I had a look at the July 2018 letter in light of the 
Services and Fee agreement, along with the initial email correspondence between the 
parties regarding the scope of services to be provided, and Im unable to conclude that 
RFML havent done as agreed. I appreciate that Mr C wants specific advice about whether to 
remain in the TPS but this was not the service RFML agreed to provide. 
I note that the July 2018 report clearly stated that RFML were not providing advice on the 
TPS and that the adviser was not an expert on TPS. I cant see that Mr C questioned this or 
otherwise followed up on this report for many months. In fact, Mr C admitted to the investigator that it was the 16 December 2019 email saying, incorrectly, that RFMLs 
ongoing review service involved looking at Mr Cs TPS, which caused them to be unhappy 
that a further fee was being sought.
RFML have explained that this email included information that wasnt correct, and it made a 
mistake in sending this to Mr and Mrs C. Mr C feel that RFML have lied about the services it 
said it would provide and then terminated the relationship when Mr C questioned them about 
it. 
Ive looked carefully at the Fee and Service Agreement and the About our Services and 
Costs document it references. This document explains, in relevant part: our ongoing 
Service is designed to provide periodic reviews to ensure that recommended products 
remain relevant to your circumstances. Since RFML did not make any product 
recommendations regarding the TPS, there was no obligation to provide any related ongoing 
services. 
So when Mr C sought a personal recommendation from RFML regarding his TPS 
membership, tax and contribution allowances, notably after RFML said it had completed all 
of agreed services and after Mr and Mrs C had settled the final invoice, I consider this to be 
a request for a new service. So Im unable to conclude that it was unfair or unreasonable for 
RFML to ask Mr C to agree a new fee arrangement for a new service.  
Likewise, when Mr C didnt agree, as was his right, RFML were entitled to terminate its 
professional relationship. In fact, under the terms of the Fee and Service Agreement, either 
party could terminate the arrangement at any time, without a reason. I appreciate that Mr 
and Mrs C feel that they are now going to incur additional financial costs because they have 
to have an adviser to stay with B. But this is not a cost attributable to any wrongdoing of 
RFML. Had the relationship not been terminated, Mr and Mrs C had agreed to pay ongoing 
charges to RFML for the ongoing services provided in regard to the recommended products. 
So Mr and Mrs C were always going to have to pay for this ongoing service.
Furthermore, I dont see that any refund is required, because under the terms of the fee 
agreement, RFML were entitled to the fees received for the guidance, advice and 
recommendations it provided in July 2018 and March 2019, along with the actions it took to 
implement its recommendations for Mr and Mrs C. 
I recognise Mr and Mrs Cs strength of feeling on all these issues and I know that they will be 
disappointed. But Ive considered all their points very carefully and for the reasons Ive 
explained, I wont be asking RFML to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman