DRN-3409070
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) will not allow her to cash 
in her annuity with it.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my provisional findings in a provisional 
decision. This is included below and forms part of this decision:
Mrs W had a pension policy with Scottish Widows and in 2001 she decided to take her benefits from 
it. She purchased an annuity and took 25% of her fund as tax free cash. The annuity was to pay 
£44.40 per annum increasing at 3% and the tax-free cash amount was just over £2,000.
Scottish Widows no longer holds all the information about the sale, but its said Mrs W had an 
independent financial adviser attached to the plan and it was sent all the information about Mrs Ws 
options.
Mrs W brought a complaint to our service as she wants to access the annuity and have it paid as a 
lump sum. But Scottish Widows has refused this.
Scottish Widows explained to us that its terms and conditions didnt allow for annuities to be cashed 
in. And it had taken a business decision not to offer this. It also pointed out that to date Mrs W had 
already received more from than the annuity than its purchase price
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
DISP 3.6.4 R says that in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, 
I will take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
What are the regulations about cashing-in or commutation?
Various bits of legislation have helped form the current legislation that allow annuities to be cashed in. 
These include:
The Finance Act 2004 Section 164
The Finance Act 2004 Section 273B
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
- reg. 11 De minimis rule for pension schemes
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 reg. 11A 
(inserted on 6/4/12)
Finance Act 2014 Section 42 Pension flexibility: taking low-value pension rights as lump sum
As a result of the above, the legislation in regard to commutation payments now reads:
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 .
PART 2 COMMUTATION PAYMENTS
reg. 11A
(1) A payment to a member by a pension scheme which is not a public service pension scheme or an 
occupational pension scheme in respect of an arrangement under that scheme if
(a)the member has reached normal minimum pension age or the ill-health condition is met (see 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 28) ;
(b)the payment does not exceed £10,000 ;
(c)the payment extinguishes the member's entitlement to benefits under the arrangement;
The Finance Act which allowed providers/schemes to over-ride the rules of the scheme and make 
payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (which now includes cashing-in of 
annuities)  was a permissive over-ride. What this means is the schemes are allowed to make these 
payments if they wish to do so  it isnt mandatory legislation.
So in essence what the legislation says is a person in Mrs Ws position doesnt have a right to 
commute their pension pot to a cash lump sum. However, if a provider wants to offer this it can, but 
only up to a limit of £10,000.
Relevant considerations
What are the relevant regulatory rules and guidance?
COBS 2.1 Acting honestly, fairly and professionally
The client's best interests rule
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Principles for Businesses
PRIN 2.1.1R The Principles
6 Customers' interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
Guidance to firms:
FCA Alert to firms: Fair Treatment of Customers 12/05/2015
All firms must be able to show consistently that fair treatment of customers is at the heart of their 
business model.
Taken together, all of this means in essence that firms must take the best interests of their customers 
into account in the actions they take. However, this doesnt mean that it should act in the interest of a 
single (or a small group of) customer(s) which would be at the expense of other customers. Nor to act 
in a particular customers interest without consideration of other factors or wider implications.
Im aware of no other codes of practice that would apply here, other than the legislation and 
regulatory rules Ive referred to above. However Ive also considered:-What would have been good industry practice at the relevant time? Im aware some providers 
have allowed commutation of small annuities in the past.
-Contractual and other legal matters. Im aware that in some annuity contracts, there may be 
ownership issues (it may be subject to a separate contractual/legal arrangement with 
another party) or other lives attached to the annuity that could cause issues with 
commutation.
-Practical matters. For example, an annuity is a life-long insurance contract that is not 
designed to be cashed in. For that reason, it is often backed by long-term less liquid 
investments that may be more difficult to value or sell; and doing so might negatively affect 
the pricing of annuities for other customers.
The key questions that I need to consider in deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case
1. Does Scottish Widows have discretion to commute Mrs Ws annuity as requested? For 
example:
-Is the value under £10,000?
-Is Mrs W the legal owner of the annuity?
-Is Scottish Widows the other contracting party or has it been re-insured?
2. If Scottish Widows is free to commute the annuity, would it have been in Mrs Ws best 
interests to allow commutation? For example:
-Would it expose her to the risk of financial difficulty in the future?
-Would it affect other income that she relies on - such as state benefits being reduced 
due to the commutation payment?
3. If Scottish Widows was free to grant Mrs Ws request to commute the annuity and doing so 
would have been in her best interest, was it fair and reasonable for Scottish Widows to 
refuse? In other words, did it exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way?
My findings in light of the above considerations
Scottish Widows hasnt made any specific arguments in relation to this case as to why it isnt free to 
allow Mrs W to cash-in the annuity. So I am proceeding on the basis that it does have discretion to 
commute her annuity.
Its also not provided any information specific to Mrs W to show that she would be worse off if she 
were to commute the annuity to a cash lump sum. Having considered what Mrs Ws told us and the 
value of her annuity, which is paying her around £50 a year, Im satisfied the annuity is so small it 
doesnt provide any meaningful income on which she relies. I accept her position that shed benefit 
more from a cash lump sum, even if small. For these reasons, and subject to the lump sum value 
(which hasnt been determined), Ive proceeded also on the basis that it would be in Mrs Ws personal 
interest to encash the annuity.
Ive therefore thought about whether Scottish Widows fairly took into account Mrs Ws interests when 
it chose not to exercise its discretion to allow her to cash-in her annuity.
Scottish Widows has told us it is unwilling at this point in time to offer a cash in value to Mrs W, 
essentially because the annuity product wasnt designed to be cashed in. Its also said more generally 
about the issue of cashing in annuities:-In the interests of treating customers fairly it couldnt make an exception without looking at all 
its customers in similar circumstances.
-It didnt currently have systems in place to do this and make offers to its customers.
-And to do so would be a significant change in its business model to date.
It seems to me that Scottish Widows could avoid many of the challenges it has raised if it were to treat 
Mrs Ws case as exceptional. The cost and impact in this one case would be small for a business the 
size of Scottish Widows. However, I acknowledge Scottish Widows difficulty here. Im not persuaded 
there is reason in Mrs Ws case to treat her differently to other customers with small annuities. (Its my 
understanding that is a significant portion of customers.)
Ive kept in mind that Mrs W would probably be better off with a cash lump sum and the annuity isnt 
useful to her. Ive balanced this against the fact that commutation wasnt something Mrs W had a right 
to. And while Scottish Widows was free to allow her request, Im satisfied it did have other legitimate 
interests to weigh up, including the way the annuity product was designed, the impact on Scottish 
Widows existing systems and processes, the interests of its customers more widely and the potential 
cost.
On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Scottish Widows to decline Mrs Ws 
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Mrs W in line with other customers.
Furthermore, Mrs W has received more in annuity payments than the pot used to purchase her 
annuity. So whilst I can understand why Mrs W would want a lump sum, I dont think it would be fair to 
say that Scottish Widows has to make an offer in these circumstances. She has already had the 
value of the investment she made back as income.
We have seen that some providers are looking into their stance on cashing-in annuities. If in the 
future Scottish Widows changes its position on cashing in annuities or legislation changes, its 
possible Mrs W may benefit from such a change. But I cannot fairly say Scottish Widows must change 
its position at present, in the circumstances Ive considered in this decision.
I appreciate Mrs W will be disappointed with this but for the reasons explained I am not intending to 
uphold her complaint.
Neither party has provided any new comments or further evidence since my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings reached in my provisional 
decision. And so my final decision remains the same and as set out above.
In summary, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Scottish Widows to decline Mrs 
Ws request. Its acted in line with the contract terms and the regulatory rules and guidance 
and treated Mrs W in line with other customers.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman