DRN-2958948
The complaint
Mr M complains TSB Bank plc caused him to suffer distress and inconvenience when it 
closed his bank account without notice. Mr M wants TSB to reopen his account and 
compensate him for the impact of its actions.   
 What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 13 July 2021. The background and 
circumstances of the case and the reasons why I upheld it were set out in that decision. 
I have reproduced the provisional decision in italics below:
The complaint 
Mr M complains TSB Bank plc caused him to suffer distress and inconvenience when it 
closed his bank account without notice. Mr M wants TSB to reopen his account and 
compensate him for the impact of its actions. 
What happened 
Mr M received an inheritance following the death of a family member and was sent a 
bankers draft for £1,700 drawn on a bank in Ireland. Due to Mr Ms personal circumstances, 
he was not able to deposit the bankers draft into his account himself. 
On 12 June 2019, Mr Ms partner went into his local branch to deposit it on his behalf. 
Although the branch accepted it, Mr Ms partner was told that she should not be using his 
debit card and that Mr M needed to obtain permission to formalise third party access to the 
account if he wanted her to help him manage his affairs. Shortly afterwards, Mr M started the 
process to set up his partners access. 
On 28 June 2019, TSB debited £1,700 from Mr Ms account. His bank statement shows the 
debit as FRAUD RECOVERY. 
On 19 July 2019, TSB decided to close Mr Ms account with immediate effect. It wrote to him 
and told him to make alternative banking arrangements. It enclosed a cheque for £457.51, 
which was the balance of Mr Ms account at the time it was closed. 
Mr M made a complaint. He highlighted that the immediate closure of his account had 
significantly impacted him. He explained he didnt have any other accounts that he could pay 
the cheque into and that he didnt understand what had happened to his inheritance money. 
He explained hed been planning to use the money to settle an outstanding debt, to pay for 
legal services and to purchase basic provisions but was now unable to do so. He asked the 
bank to either reinstate his account and balance or pay his balance to a third party. 
On 9 January 2020, TSB issued its final response. It said that it had closed Mr Ms account 
following a central review and it was part of the process to issue the remaining balance of 
the account by cheque. It did not think the bank had made a mistake. 
Unhappy with the situation, Mr M referred a complaint to this service. TSB then said it would 
be willing to pay £457.51 to a third-party bank account. 
One of our Investigators began looking into the matter. She noted TSB had said it was 
concerned that the bankers draft was counterfeit but it had never asked Mr M anything 
further about it. She was able to obtain information from Mr M and his brother proving that 
the funds were from the deceaseds estate. She was also able to establish that the bankers 
draft cleared when presented for payment and no fraud report or indemnity had been raised 
by the remitting bank. The Investigator established that the £1,700 still remained in one of 
TSBs suspense accounts almost a year later. 
She said TSB should return the £1,700 to Mr M along with 8% simple interest on the funds 
as there was no evidence now to support the position that the bankers draft was fraudulent. 
She also thought TSB should pay the £457.51 if it remained outstanding, as well as £250 
compensation for the trouble and upset the bank had caused. She felt the overall situation 
did not warrant the immediate closure of Mr Ms account and the bank had not done enough 
to try to resolve the issue, although she felt that it was still fair for TSB to have closed the 
account because it was being used by a third party. 
Mr M pointed out that TSB had never told him why it had closed his account. Mr M explained 
that he still wanted the bank to explain its actions, to reactivate his account and pay 
compensation for the full impact of its actions. He explained he did not understand why hed 
been treated this way and said it was difficult to resist the suspicion that he was being 
subjected to discriminatory treatment because of his wider situation. 
As Mr M did not accept the Investigators view, TSB did not pay the compensation she had 
recommended. But it did pay the outstanding funds to Mr Ms partner along with the interest 
the Investigator had recommended to try to alleviate Mr Ms difficult financial situation. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me. 
My further enquiries 
I contacted TSB to ask the bank more about its position on the immediate closure of Mr Ms 
account. I had concerns that the bank did not unravel things properly at the time and had 
potentially jumped the gun with its actions. 
I asked the bank that knowing what it knows now, i.e. that there were no issues with the 
provenance of the bankers draft deposited, on what grounds would it have taken the 
decision to close the account immediately. I pointed out that TSB was initially happy for 
Mr Ms partner to have formalised third-party access to the account. I highlighted that the 
bank statements I had seen for the way Mr Ms account typically ran did not indicate any 
evidence of high-risk credits or claims. 
TSB responded to say Mr M had breached the terms and conditions by allowing a third party 
to operate the account without a formal authority being registered. It said it had also placed 
weight on the banks staff having the impression that the deposit was counterfeit so felt its 
actions were appropriate at the time. If suggested that if I felt the action was 
disproportionate, I should consider this in my decision. What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I am not currently persuaded that TSBs actions were fair and proportionate 
in all of the circumstances of this individual case. I think TSB treated Mr M unfairly when it 
closed his account with immediate effect and that he has lost out as a result. Ill explain why. 
TSB says it closed Mr Ms account immediately because it had concerns that the bankers 
draft was counterfeit and because Mr Ms account was being used by a third party when it 
should not have been. 
Its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to 
provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to 
do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep customer or require it to 
compensate a customer who has had their account closed. 
TSB suspected that the bankers draft was counterfeit. As a starting point, I would expect a 
bank to be on the look out for potential problems with cheques and payments. A bank should 
seek to prevent its bank accounts from being used to further financial crime, so I dont 
consider it to be particularly unusual if a bank identifies a payment that it wishes to make 
further enquiries about. 
I have seen a copy of the bankers draft. I appreciate that it is difficult to fully assess the 
security features built into a bankers draft from an image as a picture cannot convey the 
way the paper feels or its print quality. I accept that it is possible that the bankers draft may 
have stood out to the banks staff because it looked and felt different to what they typically 
see day to day, especially as it was drawn on a bank based in Ireland. But Im also mindful 
that bankers drafts are less commonplace these days. 
I have no issue with the principle that TSB had concerns that the bankers draft may have 
been an attempt to obtain money using a false instrument. But I cant see that the bank took 
any further steps to establish whether its concerns were justified in the circumstances. Ive 
not seen anything to show that TSB attempted to contact Mr M to ask him about his 
entitlement to the funds at any stage and I am satisfied that it had an up to date address to 
write to. Had it have done so, I think it is more likely than not that Mr M would have 
responded positively and proactively with the information he had, as he did when this service 
asked for more information about the circumstances surrounding the bankers draft. 
The banks notes from 19 June 2019 - before Mr Ms balance was debited - state that it may 
need to contact the remitting bank to find out more, but theres no evidence to suggest it 
actually did so. The copy of the bankers draft clearly shows the bank and the branch it was 
drawn upon. It would have been easy for TSB to have made contact to attempt to verify 
details and potentially alleviate its concerns. Im also mindful that when TSB made the 
decision to debit Mr Ms account on 28 June 2019, the bankers draft had cleared for fate 
which means that it was not going to be returned unpaid. The only exception to this would be 
if it was involved in a fraud in which the customer was involved. But the remitting bank has 
not raised any concerns about the payment at any stage. 
The bank has also said that Mr M was in breach of the terms and conditions of his account 
by allowing a third party to operate it. But the bank was aware of, and initially sympathetic to, 
Mr Ms situation as it had discussed the process to allow his partner access to the account. Im not persuaded the available evidence supports Mr M posed a sufficiently higher risk to 
the bank to justify it being able to close his account with immediate effect. Ive also got 
concerns about the breadth and depth of TSBs enquiries when it was investigating the 
bankers draft. It formed its conclusions without contacting Mr M or the remitting bank for 
more information. At the time TSB decided to close Mr Ms account, I dont think it had 
sufficient evidence to support that decision. So I think it would be fair and reasonable for 
TSB to reopen Mr Ms account. 
Ive thought about the impact TSBs actions have had on Mr M. TSB has since released 
Mr Ms funds back to him and paid 8% simple interest on the £1,700 it debited from his 
account from the date it debited to the date it was sent to his third party.
But I also think it would be fair for TSB to pay 8% simple interest on the £457.51 that was in 
Mr Ms account on the date it was closed from the date of the account closure to the date it 
was sent to his third party if it hasnt already done so. This is because Mr M was also 
deprived access to those funds too. Hes explained that he needed the money to buy 
provisions and he has had to go without as a result of not being able to access it. 
Mr Ms wider circumstances meant he was not using the account as frequently as he might 
have otherwise done. He wasnt making any regular direct debit payments so it is fortunate 
that he did not have to make alternative arrangements to cover bills at the last minute as I 
anticipate that would have been very difficult for him to do. But I do still think he has been 
caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience. The sudden closure of the account would 
have been distressing for Mr M. I can fully appreciate that he would have been anxious to 
find out what had happened to his inheritance money. Ive no doubt that Mr M was caused 
upset and frustration as a result of the difficulties he faced trying to gain access to the money 
that was already in his account in the interim too. 
When our Investigator considered the matter, she awarded £250 compensation to 
acknowledge the impact of the issue with the bankers draft because she felt the bank 
should have done more to resolve that issue and communicate with Mr M. But I dont think 
this goes far enough. If the bank had investigated it concerns with the bankers draft more 
closely, and in line with the steps it indicated in its notes that it would take, I think it is more 
likely than not that the provenance of the funds would have been quickly established. As 
such, I dont think TSB would have then taken the decision to close Mr Ms account, let alone 
close it with immediate effect. It was engaged in the process to add Mr Ms partner to the 
account at that time. It was aware of Mr Ms personal circumstances and I am not persuaded 
that it would have considered Mr M adding a third party to his account would expose the 
bank to higher risk. As such, I think TSB should also pay Mr M £500 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he has suffered. 
In my provisional decision, I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or 
arguments that they wanted me to consider. 
Mr M responded first. In summary, he said that he accepted the position and hoped that TSB 
would likewise accept it. He said that if the bank challenged or questioned the outcome, hed 
like the opportunity to consider those points further.
TSB responded. It confirmed that it had reinstated Mr Ms account and said that it would be 
willing to pay the 8% simple interest on the £457.51 as I had outlined. It pointed out that 
Mr M appeared to have banking facilities elsewhere as his partner is transferring funds out to 
him from her account. It asked whether I could reconsider whether the distress and 
inconvenience payment of £500 was still appropriate given that I am now aware that Mr M 
holds an account with another bank.I made Mr M aware of the banks response and asked him about the account TSB had 
referred to.  
Mr M explained hed opened the new account at the end of May 2021 and was unable to use 
it until hed received a debit card in early June. He pointed out that opening the new account 
was a very stressful process due to not holding the necessary documentation. He 
highlighted that this would not have been required at all if hed still had the TSB account to 
have his universal credit payments paid into.
Mr M was aggrieved at what he described as an unwarranted and uncaring approach 
shown by TSB and he pointed out the casual indifference TSB had shown when 
responding to my provisional decision. He felt that the way TSB had handled things from 
start to finish had been appalling. He pointed out the bank had not apologised, nor had it 
recognised that it had been at fault. He thought the banks practice of looking at his partners 
private financial records in an attempt to curtail any compensation or minimise the impact of 
its failings was inappropriate and could even contravene data protection legislation. He 
requested that I should consider revising my provisional award upwards and suggested 
£1,500 would be more appropriate.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still consider the redress I proposed in my provisional decision to be fair 
and reasonable overall. I know this isnt the outcome that either side was hoping for, so I will 
explain why.
Given that TSB has now reinstated Mr Ms banking facilities and agreed that it would be 
willing to pay the 8% simple interest that I outlined, the only matter that remains in dispute is 
the level of compensation that is appropriate to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience 
the banks actions have caused. TSB considers my award to be too great if Mr M had access 
to alternative banking facilities and Mr M feels a higher amount is warranted in light of the 
banks attitude and approach to my provisional decision. 
My power to award compensation comes from our rules, namely DISP 3.7.2 R of the 
regulators handbook, which says we can award fair compensation that's a proportionate 
reflection of the impact a business's actions (or inaction) had on their customer. But I am not 
able to tell TSB how it should deal with and handle complaints, nor can I make any order or 
award specifically for this, even if TSBs handling of the complaint has fallen short. In 
addition, The Financial Ombudsman Service is not a regulator and I am unable to make 
awards intended to punish or fine TSB.
Its also not my role to set TSBs internal policies and processes. In this case, I have 
reviewed whether TSB has followed its internal policies and processes fairly. As I explained 
in my provisional decision, at the time TSB decided to close Mr Ms account, I dont think it 
had sufficient evidence to support that decision. I still think the decision to close Mr Ms 
account when it did was unfair and that it had a serious impact on him. 
I acknowledge Mr Ms sentiments that the bank has failed to appreciate how its actions have 
impacted him. Its evident that he has faced obstacles and difficulties that could have been 
avoided if TSB had handled things as it should have done. In addition, seeking to reduce the 
compensation Id provisionally recommended without a full understanding of recent changes 
to Mr Ms personal situation and without knowledge of when hed opened the other account 
was short sighted. Mr M told me hed opened the new account recently. Not having a bank account was 
restricting his access to essential benefit payments and I think it was appropriate for him to 
make alternative arrangements when he did because at that point his account with TSB 
remained closed. Mr M has explained that the arrangement to initially make the payments to 
his partner was put in place with support from the DWP. Ive seen no evidence that leads me 
to think Mr M held the new account for any longer time and I note that Mr M was more than 
happy for me to contact the third party bank to verify these details if I wished to do so. It also 
seems unlikely that Mr M would have pursued this matter for as long as he has done if hed 
had another way to access his money.
Ive also noted Mr Ms concerns about how the bank came to learn of the existence of his 
new account. But compliance with GDPR guidance and regulations is not an area that this 
service looks into. It is the role of the ICO to decide if TSBs actions have breached the 
relevant legislation. Mr Ms partner will need to refer any concerns about how TSB has used 
her data to the office of the ICO if she wishes this to be decided upon.
Looking at everything, its clear that the banks decision to close Mr Ms account when it did 
left him to navigate a difficult situation at a time when he was vulnerable. In situations like 
this one, where a business has made an error which has caused ongoing distress and 
inconvenience to its customer - it would be expected by this service that the business would 
agree to pay fair and reasonable compensation to that customer, given whats taken place. 
Ultimately, I think that a payment of £500 compensation is appropriate in all of the 
circumstances here. While I can understand that Mr M feels that it doesnt now go far 
enough, £500 is commensurate with what this service would expect in circumstances such 
as these.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about TSB Bank plc  and I therefore require the bank to now action the remainder of my 
proposed settlement, namely to:
Pay 8% simple interest on the £457.51 that was in Mr Ms account on the date it was 
closed from the date of the account closure to the date it was sent to his third party if 
it hasnt already done so. It can pay this money directly into Mr Ms reinstated 
account. If any tax is lawfully deductible from this element of my proposed award, 
TSB must give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks
Pay Mr M £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience within 28 days of 
receiving notification of his acceptance of my final decision, failing which interest will 
thereafter accrue on this sum at the simple rate of 8% a year until payment.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman