DRN-3410488
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the advice they received from HSBC UK Bank Plc
to take out two investment products in late 2000  a bond and an investment into HSBCs 
Portfolio Management Service (PMS). They say the investments were mis-sold and not 
suitable for their circumstances. 
What happened
In late 2000, HSBC advised Mr and Mrs H to invest £58,000 into a bond. Around the same 
time, they receive further advice to invest £38,000 into HSBCs PMS. The funds in the PMS 
were distributed into ISAs in their individual names over the next couple of years.
The PMS was fully surrendered in March 2004  and Mr and Mrs H received just under 
£32,000 in total for this investment, a loss of approximately £6,000. In August 2006, a partial 
withdrawal was made from the bond before it was fully surrendered in 2007. Overall Mr and 
Mrs H made a gain of approximately £13,000 on this investment. 
Mr and Mrs H are represented by a CMC. In 2019, the CMC submitted a complaint to HSBC 
on their behalf. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. In respect of the bond, it said while a 
proportion of the fund was invested in equities, it was also invested in fixed interest, gilts, 
corporate bonds and cash. So, it was very diverse from an asset allocation and risk 
perspective and would be described as low-medium risk. HSBC said there isnt anything to 
say this was inappropriate recommendation  and it also made a positive return when it was 
surrendered. 
In respect of the PMS, HSBC said this complaint had been made out of time as Mr and Mrs 
H complained more than six from the original advice and more than three years after they 
ought to have known they cause for complaint.  
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with the response from HSBC, so referred it to this service for an 
independent review. 
In June 2021, one of our ombudsmen issued a jurisdiction decision and concluded that the 
complaint had been made in time, so this service was able to consider the merits of the 
complaint about both investments.  
I issued a provisional decision on the merits upholding the complaint in part  this is what I 
said:
There is limited information available from the time these investments were taken out. I 
dont think this is surprising given the sales took place more than 20 years ago and the 
investments were surrendered more than 12 years ago. Its not unusual to decide a case 
based on incomplete evidence. When that happens, Im required to decide matters based on 
what I consider is more likely than not to have happened, in light of the evidence I do have 
and the wider circumstances. And so this is what Ive done here. 
While there is no point of sale documentation from the advice to invest in the bond, there is 
some documentation from the advice to invest in the PMS. There is a copy of a suitability 
letter (dated 18 December 2000), which was sent by HSBC to Mr and Mrs H. Ive noted the 
following information from this letter:
-Mr H was drawing a pension policy that will give him a £38,00 lump sum and income 
of approximately £500 per month. It says this was taken earlier than expected and he 
wants an investment strategy for this money. 
-This letter focusses only on this objective as it states other areas of financial planning 
have been covered in previous reports.  
-The advice took into account Mr and Mrs Hs income tax status and their balanced 
attitude to investment risk for a need for capital growth.
-As their objective was for capital growth, the growth portfolio was recommended as 
this has greater exposure to equities. 
The CMC has provided information to detail what Mr and Mrs H recall about their 
circumstances in late 2000. This includes that:
Mr H was aged 53 and had recently been made redundant and received a lump sum 
of approximately £16,000 and he had taken up a consultant role earning a decent 
salary. 
Mrs H was aged 50 and worked part-time earning approximately £100 per week. 
They had recently had an endowment policy mature - which they used to pay off their 
mortgage. 
They were left with £95,000 in their savings and deposit accounts. Other than the 
endowment policy, they had no other experience of investing in risk-based products. 
They were paying for their sons university fees and expenses.
In absence of any further evidence, I think it is reasonable to use the above information to 
help me decide whether the investment advice given by HSBC was suitable for Mr and Mrs 
Hs circumstances. 
Bond
HSBC say the fund the bond was invested in had an objective to exceed interest rates and 
would have been invested primarily in asset classes such as fixed interest securities, gilts 
and corporate bonds, therefore would have provided for a low risk rating. I accept it is 
possible the fund was at the lower end of risk scale, but it is still unclear how HSBC came to 
this conclusion as Ive not been provided with any information from 2001 to indicate the fund 
mix. I have been provided with a fund factsheet from the product provider dated from 2017, 
but clearly this is a significant period after Mr and Mrs H invested. Nevertheless, this is some 
evidence I can use to understand what the likely make up of the fund was when Mr and Mrs 
H invested. This information indicates that the fund was invested around 50% in equities and 
40% in lower risk assets (e.g. fixed interest, gilts and cash). So, I think it is reasonable to 
assume this investment exposed Mr and Mrs Hs capital to some investment risk, but there 
was a decent proportion of the fund in less volatile assets meaning overall it didnt present a 
high level of risk. 
Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances suggest they were in a position to take some risk with their 
savings. They had a reasonable level of income, were mortgage free and after investing still 
had deposit-based savings to fall back on. Based on my understanding of the fund the bond 
was invested in, I think the level of risk this presented was suitable for their circumstances.  
Overall, it seems that they were is a position to be able to invest as recommended. So, Im 
not intending to uphold, this element of the complaint. PMS
Having reviewed the suitability letter, it appears this second piece of advice was specific to 
this investment and not linked to the previous advice. I say this because there is a note that 
says the letter focusses only on this objective as it states other areas of financial planning 
have been covered in previous reports. There is also no reference to this recommendation 
being linked to a portfolio of advice. So, I think it is reasonable to conclude this second piece 
advice was specific to the pension lump sum Mr H had recently received rather than a 
continuation of a portfolio of advice. But when considering whether this advice was suitable, 
the bond Mr and Mrs H took out around the same time does form part of their overall 
circumstances, so is relevant to my overall considerations. 
  
HSBC hasnt been able to provide the precise information of the fund make up for PMS at 
the time, but it has provided a portfolio report from the second half of 2001. This is the best 
available evidence I have to establish the type of investment Mr and Mrs H were advised to 
invest in. Mr and Mrs H invested in the growth portfolio. This is described as investing in UK 
equities as well as overseas markets  with around 10% in fixed interest funds. At the date 
of this report it indicates that 60% was invested in UK equities, just under 30% in overseas 
(across Europe, the US and Asia) and around 10% in UK fixed interest. Again, I dont know if 
this was the precise fund mix that was in place at the time of advice, but considering the 
proximity to the advice I think it is likely this is very close to what Mr and Mrs H were 
recommended to invest in. 
By advising Mr and Mrs H to invest in the growth portfolio, this is a step up in the level of risk 
compared to their other savings. The fund report indicates this was the highest risk option 
available for the PMS  with the two lower risk options being balanced and income. These 
two alternative options had a greater percentage of funds invested in more secure fixed 
interest securities. The suitability letter also records that the growth option had a greater 
exposure to equity-based funds. 
While I accept that Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances indicate they had capacity to take a risk 
with this lump sum investment, the fund that was recommended was at a higher level than 
they had previously invested. They had limited equity linked investment experience until they 
invested in the bond, but the PMS had a much larger percentage invested in equities  and 
also exposed them to overseas markets. I havent seen evidence to support why they were 
taking a step up in terms of risk so soon to previous advice to invest in lower risk funds. As 
Ive explained, I dont think this was a portfolio of advice as the suitability letter indicates the 
advice was just for the objective of investing Mr Hs pension lump sum. So, I dont think the 
evidence supports that this higher risk investment balances out their overall portfolio. Had 
this been the case, I would have expected this to be detailed in the suitability letter. 
There is some evidence that Mr and Mrs Hs attitude to risk was assessed by the advisor. 
This mentions that they had a balanced attitude to investment risk with a need for capital 
growth. But its unclear how this was established. As mentioned above, there was a 
balanced option in the PMS, but this wasnt the option Mr and Mrs H were recommended 
anyway. 
     
Clearly, its difficult to conclude with any certainty what happened given the passage of time 
and the resulting lack of documentation. But, on balance, I think (for the reasons mentioned 
above in my considerations about the bond) Mr and Mrs H were in a position to accept some 
risk with their savings. But I dont agree they were prepared to accept the level the risk the 
PMS exposed them to. So, I intend on upholding this part of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs H responded  they had no further points for me to consider. HSBC responded  in summary it said:
- The submissions from the CMC representing Mr and Mrs H contain inaccuracies. It 
says there has been different information given about the nature of discussions held 
with HSBC around the time the two investments were taken out. It also says 
contradictory information has been given around the level of funds Mr and Mrs H had 
available for investment  and whether they invested all of their free assets.  This 
means it is difficult to know without a fact find from the time exactly what Mr and Mrs 
H held in savings and funds available for investment. 
- Mr and Mrs H were in a relatively good financial position as they had repaid their 
mortgage debt, which on balance was most likely there largest outgoing. They had a 
joint income of £85,200 and Mr H was in a good position to gain employment. They 
also had £33,000 left on deposit post the two investment recommendations.
- Mr and Mrs H say they surrendered the PMS portfolio because they encountered an 
unexpected new opportunity to invest abroad. So, despite Mr H being a contractor 
with future uncertainty this did not impact on them needing these funds to support 
their lifestyle. It would also seem that the downturn in the markets post 9/11 did not 
deter them from seeking further investment opportunities. This on balance would 
imply Mr and Mrs H were comfortable with the PMS investment, even though on 
surrender they received less than their original investment. 
- The half yearly report for the PMS funds dated October 2001 to April 2002 shows the 
growth fund as holding 71.9% in a mix of UK blue chip companies across a range of 
equities and fixed interest securities, the remaining 28.1% was held in overseas 
equities, again the majority of which were well known blue chip companies. In 
comparison the balanced fund had a holding 76.9% in a mix of UK blue chip 
companies across a range of equities and fixed interest securities, with the remaining 
23.1% being held in overseas equities, there is only a small (5%) difference 
essentially in the two portfolios. The aim of the growth portfolio was to increase the 
value of the investment over the longer term. The aim of the balanced portfolio was 
to essentially provide an income, however this could, if not required, be reinvested.
- Based on experience and taken into account the majority of the funds were both held 
in the UK, these would most likely both fall into the category of medium risk. 
Therefore, as Mr and Mrs H had a large income, a growth fund would be more suited 
to their needs, as opposed to a fund that provided an income. Their portfolio as a 
whole would have provided 43% of their monies being invested as low risk, 29% as 
medium risk and the remaining 28% in cash.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further comments made by HSBC, but Ive not found reason to change 
the outcome I set out in my provisional decision.
Firstly, I acknowledge the further comments HSBC has made about the accuracy of 
evidence provided about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances. The advice took place a long time 
ago and it has been difficult to gather evidence. We do have some point of sale 
documentation in the suitability letter for the PMS. This is evidence that helps with gaining an 
understanding of what was discussed when the PMS was recommended  as well as 
providing some factual information about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances. In the absence of 
further records from the time of advice, the information Mr and Mrs H have provided as part 
of their complaint submissions is evidence Ive considered to help build a picture of their 
circumstances. I recognise it is possible this information may not be fully accurate  so Ive taken that into account. But Im also conscious that it is difficult to be precise with 
recollections from more than twenty years ago. Ultimately, I need to reach a decision on the 
balance of probabilities  and this is what Ive done using all of the information provided by 
both parties to the complaint. 
I also acknowledge the comments HSBC make about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances and 
their financial position. This does indicate they were in a position to accept some risk  but 
this doesnt clearly show the level of risk they were prepared to take. I dont agree that the 
reasons surrounding the surrender of the PMS support that they were comfortable with the 
level of risk this investment presented. The reasons theyve given for surrender dont appear 
to have anything to do with the original advice. So, I dont think there is a strong argument to 
link the two situations. 
Ive noted the further comments HSBC has made about the make of the growth fund option 
the PMS was invested in. The information provided in comparison between the growth and 
balanced option supports the conclusion that the growth funds was invested in a higher risk 
environment  both in terms of UK equities and overseas equities. HSBC says this was only 
a small increase, but it was still a step up in terms of having more funds invested in assets 
that contain a higher risk level  and quite different to fund the bond was invested in. HSBC 
has also reiterated its comments about Mr and Mrs Hs overall portfolio after both 
investments were made.  Having considered these further comments, they havent led me to 
change my thinking on whether the PMS was a suitable recommendation. I still remain of the 
view that the evidence doesnt support this to be a portfolio of advice and have the same 
concerns about the level of risk it presented. 
For the reasons above and those in my provisional decision, I find that the bond was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs H, but the level of risk presented by the PMS 
investment was unsuitable for them. So, I uphold the complaint in part. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs H as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable advice to invest into the PMS.
I think Mr and Mrs H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what 
they would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr and Mrs H's circumstances and objectives when they invested.
What should HSBC do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs H fairly, HSBC must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs H's PMS investment with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
HSBC should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interestPMS No longer in 
forceFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, HSBC should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal from the PMS should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
HSBC totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs H wanted Capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mr and Mrs H's risk profile was in between, in the sense that they were 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs H into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
and Mrs H would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs H could have obtained from investments suited to their 
objective and risk attitude.My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman