DRN-3986508
Complaint
Mr L has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mr L bought a condensing boiler for his home in 2021. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the supplier 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr L alleges that the supplier misled him into 
believing that the boiler came with a 10-year manufactures warranty  which it didnt. The 
manufacturer informed him that the particular boiler he was sold, only came with a 2-year 
manufactures guarantee  which is in place. Mr L is still within the 2-year guarantee period.  
The supplier informed him that it had agreed a special 10-year warranty with the 
manufacturer and would arrange for that to be provided but has since gone into liquidation. 
Mr L feels the supplier intentionally misled him about the warranty to obtain his business as 
he bought the boiler mainly due to the warranty it came with. 
Ikano agreed that the supplier failed to provide him with a 10-year warranty which was 
offered as part of the contract and accepted his section 75 claim. It offered to reduce his loan 
balance by the cost of purchasing 9 years of annual like for like warranties. It said an annual 
like for like warranty would cost around £242, so it offered £2,178 (£242 multiplied by 9). It 
said it ought to have only offered 8 years of payments (as Mr L had been given 2-year 
warranty by the manufacturer) but offered 9 in error. However, as 9-years had been offered, 
it was willing to stand by its offer. 
Mr L was happy with how Ikano had formulated the likely costs of the annual warranty but 
felt his credit agreement should not only be reduced by this much but that interest should 
also be adjusted so he didnt pay any interest on the £2,178 portion of the loan. He then 
wanted to come to an arrangement with Ikano to repay the remaining balance, less the 
payments hed already made to date. 
Mr Ls complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that Ikano should 
not only reduce the cost of the system by £2,178, but it should also adjust the interest 
charged under the credit agreement so Mr L would not pay any interest on that portion of the 
loan. 
Ikano didnt agree. It said its offer put Mr L in the position he would have been in had the 
breach of contract not occurred by giving him the sum he needed to source a 9-year 
warranty elsewhere. He was still within the 2-year guarantee provided by the manufacturer. 
He said that if the supplier had still been trading, Ikano would have compelled the supplier to 
provide him with a warranty, rather than reduce his loan balance and corresponding interest. 
So it didnt agree that the loan needed to be restructured in the way our investigator had 
suggested. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, I was asked to make a
decision. 
At this time, Mr L pointed out that the 2-year guarantee is not the same as the 10-year 
warranty he was promised. He highlights that the ccurrent guarantee covers only repair and 
replacement, whereas the 10-year warranty offered unlimited call outs, parts and labour free 
of charge, as well as repair and replacement. So, he doesnt feel the 2-year guarantee 
provides him with the cover he was promised under the 10-year warranty  so it should not 
be taken into account in any redress considerations. 
In my provisional decision of 10 February 2023, I set out why I minded to upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Ikano did not respond. Mr L appeared to broadly agree with 
my findings but made some additional comments which I will address below.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
In this case the relevant law includes section 75 of the Act. Section 75 provides protection 
for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr L paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr L could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Both Mr L and Ikano appear to agree that the supplier had sold the boiler to Mr L on the 
basis it came with a 10-year manufactures warranty  and that this has not been provided. 
So the only matter left for me to decide is how to put things right and whether the offer made 
by Ikano is fair in all the circumstances of the case. 
Having reviewed everything both parties have provided, I intend to uphold this complaint and 
Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I think it might be helpful to explain that where there has been a failing on the part of 
the business, we would expect it to offer compensation so the consumer is put in the position 
they would have been in had that error, failing or breach not occurred. 
So in Mr Ls case, Ikano needs to put him in the position he would have been in if the 
supplier had given him the 10-year warranty which was offered as part of the contract. This 
would mean that Mr L would have both the boiler and a 10-year warranty, but the full 
amounts due under the loan (including interest), would remain owed to Ikano. 
Mr L and Ikano agree that the costs of an annual warranty is around £242, so I think Ikanos 
offer to pay 9 times that amount (£2,178) to be a fair amount to put matters right. 
However, Ikanos offer of reducing the loan by £2,178 does not provide Mr L with the means 
he needs to source a warranty elsewhere. It means he would owe Ikano less, but would not 
give him the money now to go and purchase a warranty  which is what is needed to put him 
in the position he wouldve been in if the supplier had done nothing wrong. By reducing the 
loan by £2,178 without also reducing the interest on that portion of the loan, it also doesnt 
fully comply with Mr Ls request for alternative redress  i.e. reducing the amount he pays by the value of the warranty. So, as it stands, I dont think Ikanos offer to reduce the loan by 
£2,178 is fair. 
So, rather than reduce Mr Ls loan balance by £2,178, this amount should be given to Mr L 
directly, so that he is able to source a warranty elsewhere. This places him in the position he 
would be in if the contract had been fulfilled by the supplier in full as he will have both the 
boiler and the amount needed to purchase a warranty elsewhere. But the amounts due 
under the loan remain unaffected. 
Ive decided that Mr L should be given 9 years (and not 10 or 8) for the following reasons. 
The first-year post installation has already past and, as far as Im aware, Mr L had no reason 
to use the warranty  so there was no loss due to the warranty not being in place. 
Additionally, while the 2-year guarantee is not the same as the warranty Mr L was promised, 
it does offer him some protection, and therefore is not completely valueless. However, I also 
need to recognise it doesnt provide Mr L with the same level of cover he was promised (and 
which he is paying for). So I think offering him the cost of an additional year (9 instead of 8) 
reaches an appropriate balance in terms of fairness for both Ikano and Mr L. 
I hope both Ikano and Mr L will appreciate that in a complaint like this where a specified cost 
for the 10-year warranty wasnt set out in the contract, and alternative cover has been 
provided (albeit not like for like), it is difficult to ascertain the actual loss suffered. And putting 
matters right isnt an exact science. 
But I think the amount Ikano has offered is a fair and reasonable way to put matters right as 
long as it is paid directly to Mr L. It gives Mr L the amount needed to buy equivalent cover  
and it is up to him to decide what to do with it. 
I would add that I understand Mr L would like the loan agreement to be restructured so he is 
only charged the total cost of the boiler and the warranty, less the approximate value of the 
warranty. However, this isnt the usual remedy offered in a case like his and Ikano hasnt 
agreed to it, so I dont think its fair for me to compel Ikano to make such an offer. 
If Mr L no longer requires or wants a warranty, he can pay this amount back into the loan, 
and my understanding is that he will only pay interest on the remaining amounts owed under 
the agreement for the remainder of the term anyway. If he chooses to do this, Ikano should 
allow this without any penalties or charges. 
If, however, Ikano now wishes to make an offer to restructure Mr Ls loan to reduce it by 
£2,178 as well as remove any interest on that portion of the loan it should let us know. As 
this is the remedy sought by Mr L and if he agrees to settle the matter on that basis, that can 
be arranged. Otherwise, I intend to direct Ikano to put matters right in the way Ive suggested 
above. 
Finally, I can see it took Ikano a significant amount of time to accept Mr Ls claim. Im 
satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr L first contacted 
Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld and redress offered in line with what 
Ive set out above. I direct that Ikano should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.
Putting this right
Ikano should pay to Mr L:
1. Pay directly to Mr L £2,178 (which amounts to 9 times £242)2. £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused as explained above.
Mr L has said he feels Ikano has not cooperated in trying to resolve the complaint so felt the 
compensation element of my recommendation should be increased to recognise the 
inconvenience he has suffered in trying to resolve this complaint. Additionally, he has 
stopped making payments to his loan until this dispute was settled and wants assurance that 
any charges applied to the account will be removed. 
Firstly, Ive thought about Mr Ls request for increased compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he has suffered. But it may be helpful to explain that the ability to award 
compensation for inconvenience is not a punitive power used against financial business to 
punish them for errors. Instead, its meant to recognises the impact of any failings on a 
consumer. Mr L is within the 2-year guarantee period offered by the manufacturer and he 
has not needed to claim  so he has not suffered any financial loss for the warranty not 
having been in place.  Ikano did also uphold his complaint although I can see both Mr L and 
Ikano could not agree on how to put things right. I fully accept that Mr L has experienced 
inconvenience in trying to resolve matters, but I still feel £100 compensation in recognition of 
that to be sufficient and in line with what we would normally award. 
Ive thought about the concerns Mr L has raised over his credit file, charges applied to the 
account (if any) and the loan repayment. But I have not been able to investigate these 
concerns as part of this complaint. I dont know what (if any) charges have been applied and 
have no details of what (if any) debt collection activities Ikano has carried out. I would 
encourage both Ikano and Mr L to agree a way forward bearing in mind both their obligations 
under the loan agreement. If Mr L feels Ikano does not treat him fairly, he can raise this as a 
separate complaint. 
In the absence of any further points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my 
original findings as set out in my provisional decision. With this in mind, I uphold this 
complaint and Ikano should putters matters right in the way Ive set out below. 
Putting this right
Ikano should pay to Mr L:
1. Pay directly to Mr L £2,178 (which amounts to 9 times £242)
2. Pay to Mr L £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused as explained 
above. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman