DRN-3360837
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC when he 
attempted to open a current account for his son.
What happened
Mr C went to his local branch on 2 February 2021 to open an account for his son who was
under 18, autistic and due to the pandemic, was isolating as he is a diabetic.
When Mr C walked into the branch, he says he was approached immediately with a member
of staff putting her hand in his face and questioning why he didnt a have face covering on.
Mr C says he felt his personal space was invaded. He explained he was exempt and was
then asked for proof. Which he is extremely unhappy about as it was against government
guidelines. He explained his intentions for his visit and was asked to wait outside while she
found someone who could help.
He says five to ten minutes later he was approached by another member of staff who took
Mr C into the branch and began to serve him. After processing his documents Mr C says he
was asked where his son was and he explained he was isolating due to his diabetes. But he
also explained his son was autistic and would have found it very distressing in branch. Mr C
was told the application couldnt be processed without his son there. Mr C said that wasnt
explained on the website and he ensured he had all the correct documentation with him. He
felt there were barriers stopping his son being able to open an account. The staff member
explained he would need to look into other options available to him and call him back.
The next day Mr C says he received a call and was told unfortunately due to security checks
his son would need to go into branch. Mr C was unhappy with this, so he raised a formal
complaint.
Lloyds looked into the concerns Mr C raised. It said the service he had received in relation to
him being made to wait outside and questioned why he wasnt wearing a face covering was
unacceptable. And it offered him £75 for the distress it may have caused. However, it didnt
think it had done anything wrong in relation to asking Mr Cs son to go into branch in order to 
open an account. It said its website states Mr C and his son would need to be in branch and
this was to ensure his son could be verified for security purposes.
Mr C remained unhappy and bought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked
into Mr Cs concerns and felt the service Lloyds offered was unsatisfactory. But she felt the
£75 Lloyds had awarded was fair and reasonable. Mr C didnt agree, so the case was 
passed to me to consider.
On 2 March 2022 I issued my provisional findings. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im required to take into account  amongst other things  relevant law and regulations. In 
this complaint Mr C feels Lloyds failed in its duty to make reasonable adjustments under the 
Equality Act 2010. So, Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this 
complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on 
whats fair and reasonable. If Mr C wants a decision on whether Lloyds has breached the 
Equality Act 2010, then hed need to go to Court.
Face Covering
Mr C felt he was treated in a discriminatory way when he was asked to wait outside and 
challenged on why he wasnt wearing a face covering.
I appreciate Lloyds have already reviewed this aspect of Mr Cs complaint and reached the 
conclusion the service it provided wasnt satisfactory and Mr C wasnt treated fairly. It offered 
compensation in recognition of this. And I am satisfied this goes some way to putting things 
right for Mr C. So, I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further in relation to this point.
Request to open an account
Mr C says he checked Lloyds website prior to visiting the branch and it didnt suggest that 
his son had to be present in order for him to open an account. Lloyds disagrees and 
provided a screenshot from its website which says:
A parent or guardian must be with you when you open your account
As such I am satisfied that there was information available on Lloyds website which 
highlighted that Mr C and his son needed to be in branch in order to open an account. 
However, I have gone on to consider Mr Cs sons circumstances. Mr C had explained that 
his son was autistic and was self-isolating at the time due to his diabetes. He explained that 
his son would find it distressing attending branch (due to it being busy and noisy) and asked 
what reasonable adjustments could be made to allow his son to be able to open an account 
without causing his distress.
I have asked Lloyds to provide further information in relation to the reasonable adjustments it 
provides in these circumstances. However, Lloyds hasnt responded. So, I have gone on to 
consider this complaint in absence of this information.
As I mentioned above, I wont be making a finding on whether Lloyds breached the Equality 
Act. But I can consider if Lloyds treated Mr C fairly and I would expect Lloyds to consider 
making reasonable adjustments where necessary. Ive noted that this is a legal obligation  
though in law Lloyds is only required to make adjustments which are reasonable, and which 
dont fundamentally alter the nature of its service. Thats relevant law and Ive taken it into 
account.
I accept that Lloyds explained Mr Cs son needed to be present in branch as it is a 
requirement in order to complete sufficient identification checks. And I appreciate that the 
staff member who was assisting Mr C in branch agreed to discuss the issue further with its 
procedure team. However, alternative options were not presented to Mr C. I understand that 
Lloyds implement this process in order to protect its customers but it also has a duty to 
ensure it is treating its customers fairly and where necessary making reasonable 
adjustments.
I have reviewed Lloyds website (in absence of the information I requested) and under the 
section support we offer in branch it says it makes its branches accessible for everyone.
The website goes on to list options it offers for people who may be vulnerable or requiring 
adjustments. One of the options it offers is a private appointment in a quiet room. Given this is an option Lloyds offers, I think its reasonable to suggest it could have been offered to Mr C 
especially considering he says his son would find visiting the branch distressing due to it 
being noisy and busy. I accept that Mr C may not have been happy with this option as it still 
required him to visit the branch. But I cant see that this option was even explored.
With that in mind, I dont think Lloyds explored all the avenues available in order to remove 
some of the barriers Mr C and his son faced or considered alternative options. While I 
appreciate that is Lloyds process, it lists on its website alternative options it can offer and as 
a bare minimum I would have expected it to discuss these options with Mr C. And I think it is 
reasonable to conclude this caused Mr C a degree of frustration and inconvenience which 
warrants compensation. Therefore, I require Lloyds to pay Mr C a further £150, which 
doesnt include the £75 it has already offered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Lloyds had until 17 March 2022 to respond to my provisional findings. However,
both parties responded early. Mr C accepted my provisionally findings but asked that he
could provide his bank details for another account he holds (not with Lloyds) for the payment
to be paid to. Lloyds also accepted my provisional findings.
Putting things right
I require Lloyds Bank Plc to pay Mr C £150 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused. 
However, Lloyds should pay the compensation into an account of Mr Cs choice. Mr C will
provide the details of the account he wishes the compensation to be credited to and our 
service will pass these details onto Lloyds.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank Place should pay Mr C £150 for the distress and
inconvenience it has caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman