DRN-3697493
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited [Lloyds] 
dealt with an escape of water claim they made on their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C has led the complaint with this Service, so Ive referred to him throughout. References I 
make to Mr C and Lloyds include the actions of respective representatives and agents 
unless stated otherwise.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary.
Mr C owns a property, occupied by his daughter and her family, insured under a 
buildings insurance policy underwritten by Lloyds. In 2019, there was a flood and the 
property was damaged. Mr C claimed on his policy, Lloyds accepted the claim and 
appointed an agent to deal with it.
Remedial work was agreed and undertaken but the repairs began to deteriorate 
within three months of their completion and Mr C says paint was bubbling and the 
walls became wet. 
Lloyds agreed work needed to be redone and as Mr C was reluctant to use the 
original contractors again, Lloyds agreed to cash settle the claim so Mr C could use 
his own contractors.
The work was undertaken by Mr Cs contractor and he says his daughter had to 
experience a further period of inconvenience including bare plaster on walls and a 
long period of cleaning up once the work was complete. This had an impact on hers 
and her familys wellbeing. 
Mr C made a complaint to Lloyds about the failed repairs and the impact this had on 
his daughter. Lloyds apologised and paid Mr C £500 as acknowledgement of its 
shortcomings but Mr C didnt think this was enough.
Our Investigator considered the evidence and decided the £500 Lloyds had paid was 
fair in the circumstances. Mr C disagreed and asked an Ombudsman to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, its not in dispute Lloyds contractors work was sub-standard, Lloyds has 
accepted this, apologised and paid compensation. So the issue at hand here, is 
whether that compensation was sufficient to recognise its contractors poor repairs.
Mr C reported the failure of the original works to Lloyds in May 2021. He obtained a 
quote for the work to be redone, Lloyds accepted this in June 2021 and cash settled 
the claim based on Mr Cs contractors costs. I consider this timescale reasonable.
His contractor undertook the work but Mr C wasnt happy with a number of things that 
followed from the repairs including the house being left with bare plaster for eight 
weeks, the further inconvenience his daughter experienced throughout the works and 
that she had to undertake a significant amount of cleaning once the work was 
complete. 
I know Mr C says this wouldnt have happened if Lloyds contractor had done the 
work correctly in the first place but this doesnt persuade me it would be reasonable 
to hold Lloyds responsible for the work of another party who isnt their agent. I say 
this as I dont think this was sufficiently foreseeable that Mr C would experience 
issues with his own contractors repairs or the time it took for them to be completed. 
The claim had been cash settled and so Lloyds had already fulfilled its obligations 
under the insurance policy.
Its clear to me Mr Cs main concern in bringing this complaint was about the impact 
the work being redone had on his daughter and her family. 
From Mr Cs testimony, I can see this was inconvenient and upsetting for her, but its 
important for me to explain I can only take into consideration the impact of Lloyds 
shortcomings on named policy-holders  Mr and Mrs C  when reaching my decision 
about the compensation Lloyds should pay. I cant make an award for someone not 
named on the policy as theyre not customers of Lloyds.
I understand why the inconvenience of the work having to be redone would be 
frustrating for Mr C and seeing his daughters upset would have been distressing for 
him too. Ive thought about this very carefully, and whilst acknowledging Mr C will be 
disappointed, Im satisfied the £500 Lloyds has already paid is a fair and reasonable 
way for it to recognise the impact of the poor repairs on him.
So I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman