DRN-3515289
The complaint
Mr R has complained about missing cashback bonuses on his ISA accounts he held with 
Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited (Scottish Friendly). He wants the bonuses paid 
to him with compensation for the delays he has experienced, the inconvenience he has been 
caused, the time incurred in bringing his complaint, plus an apology. 
What happened
Mr R held ISA accounts with Scottish Friendly and had agreed to the cashback and discount 
facility that he was offered.
Mr R raised an enquiry about his cashback bonuses on his ISA accounts with Scottish 
Friendly who responded to him on 9 August 2021. It explained that its marketing department 
had confirmed that his cashback claims should be received six months after his initial 
premiums were paid. 
But as Mr R had opened several ISA accounts this didnt prove to be the case. 
After further correspondence Mr R complained to Scottish Friendly about the cashback 
payments and other issues. 
Scottish Friendly responded to Mr Rs complaint on 3 September 2021. It said;
When Mr R had contacted Scottish Friendly in July 2021, he had been advised that 
cashback payments would be due six months from receipt of Mr Rs initial premium 
paid. This information was incorrect. The cashback would be payable six months 
from receipt of the qualifying payment and to have to qualify for cashback itself. And 
Mr R must make payments into the policy at least equal to the value of the cashback. 
This was on the assumption that the cashback for all Mr Rs policies would be 
approved. 
For that incorrect information given to Mr R on 9 August, Scottish Friendly credited 
Mr Rs bank account with £50 as an apology.
Mr R had asked about the cashback for policy number ending 960 and Scottish 
Friendly confirmed that he could only open one stocks and shares ISA. Other 
multiple ISA applications had been merged and no cashback payments would be 
made on further applications. 
Mr R rejected the proposed outcome and contacted Scottish Friendly again who responded 
on 1 November. It confirmed its understanding of his complaint points;
Mr R still believed he was due £1,080 for four ISA policies, 
he hadnt received its response sent on 3 September, 
his policies had been merged into one client referent number which he hadnt given 
his permission for and hed been unable to access his policies as a result. 
One of the policies, account number ending 604, had been missed when the policies 
were merged to the one client reference number account. 
He believed Scottish Friendly had deliberately caused problems with his online 
access because he had made a complaint.
Scottish Friendly responded to the complaint points raised;
Only one premium payment for policy 960 had been received and so it didnt qualify 
for cashback and; 
Mr R was only able to qualify for one cashback for one Investment ISA through the 
cashback offer. 
It had previously paid the cashback incentive on some of the other ISA policies Mr R 
held but it had now recognised there were multiple applications so no further 
cashback payments would be approved, which was in line with its terms and 
conditions. 
Mr R had responded directly to its response of 3 September, so it appeared he had 
received that correspondence.
In August two client references for Mr R had been merged with a third reference 
ending 220 and this had been confirmed with him and was in line with its terms. 
As a result of contact with Mr R it became clear that a further ISA policy number 
ending 604 hadnt been merged with the other policies. But this had now been done 
and it was viewable under the client reference ending 220. 
It wasnt deliberate that there had been a problem with Mr R being able to view his 
policies, and this had been rectified by its IT department. But this element of Mr Rs 
complaint was upheld and a further £50 was offered and paid.  
Mr R wasnt happy with the outcome to his complaint so brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think that Scottish 
Friendly needed to do anything more. She said;
She couldnt consider any complaint about the cashback company or other 
businesses as this complaint was against Scottish Friendly.
Scottish Friendly had acknowledged its error in the timeline given in its letter of         
9 August and as it had paid Mr R £50 to put the matter right, she wasnt going to ask 
it to do anything more. 
As Mr R had responded directly to the Scottish Friendlys communication of               
3 September, it was likely he had received it, so no further action was needed. 
The terms and conditions made clear that only one Investment ISA could be opened 
with Scottish Friendly and that if there were multiple applications, they would be 
merged into one account and no additional cashback payments would be made other 
than on the one account.
There had been a problem with Mr R being able to view his policies under the client 
reference number of the merged accounts but it was identified that an error had 
occurred and Scottish Friendly had paid Mr R £50 because of this which she thought 
was fair and wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
It was established on 6 September that one of the policies hadnt been merged with 
the one client reference number. But this was rectified so she didnt think Scottish 
Friendly needed to do anything more. 
She couldnt see that Scottish Friendly had acted maliciously when Mr R wasnt able 
to view his policies. Mr R had sent account enquiries to Scottish Friendly regarding the balances on 
account. But this was a query and not considered as part of this complaint.
Mr R didnt agree. He said his contentions remained the same and his complaint had gone 
unanswered. He referred again to the incentive cashback scheme and that he had been mis-
led. He said the investigators conclusions didnt add up and he still believed 
maladministration had occurred. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I broadly agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator and Im not 
going to uphold the complaint. I think the £100 compensation already paid to Mr R is a 
broadly fair and reasonable outcome to his complaint. 
Mr R has provided many detailed submissions. In correspondence he has said that Scottish 
Friendly failed to sufficiently account for the administration of his funds, it has breached 
codes of ethics and he referred to the regulator and the courts. To put the matter right he 
provided a schedule of loss claim and, amongst other points, he wants to be compensated 
for his cashback claims, for those claims to be rectified and for Scottish Friendly to honour 
the cashback incentives plus costs for the time he has spent in bringing the complaint. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an alternative dispute resolution service to the courts. 
It is an informal service and seeks to find fair and reasonable outcomes to a complaint but 
taking into account the law and similar.
So in deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and 
best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. I have taken into account the testimony 
and evidence provided by Mr R and the correspondence and submissions provided by 
Scottish Friendly. 
I very much recognise Mr Rs strength of feeling about his complaint. Its very clear he is, 
and has been, extremely frustrated and strongly disagrees with the outcome so far reached. 
Ive considered the submissions he has made very carefully but I should make clear I wont 
be considering every point that Mr R has made, only those points that I think are relevant to 
his complaint. I dont mean any discourtesy by this. 
I have considered what I think to be the crux of Mr Rs complaint which relates to the 
cashback he feels he is due on his ISA accounts  up to a total of 16 which were held. Mr R 
didnt receive all of the cashback he was expecting. Scottish Friendly has explained that a 
customer can only open one ISA account for this purpose and all ISA accounts are merged 
into one client reference account. 
I have reviewed the terms and conditions for the cashback offer as provided to us by 
Scottish Friendly and which Mr R agreed to. As background, I note the amount of cashback 
a customer received would depend upon the monthly premium paid in by the customer. As 
examples, a premium of between £10 and £24.99 per month would give rise to a £30 
cashback and if the monthly premium was at the other end of the scale, £1,000 and above, 
the cashback would be higher at £410.The terms also confirmed that cashback wouldnt be paid if the monthly payments are less 
than the stated offer amount. But the overarching point which I think is most relevant to     
Mr Rs case is that only one Investment ISA could be opened. Any multiple ISA applications 
would be merged together, and the customer wouldnt receive cashback on any additional 
applications. To be clear, the terms and conditions state;
What will stop me getting cashback?
.
Each Scottish Friendly member can only open one Stocks & Shares ISA with us. 
Multiple ISA applications over any time period will be merged together and you may 
not receive cashback on any additional applications.
I think it was Mr Rs interpretation of those terms that is the main cause of his complaint. And 
it is because of those terms that I cant uphold Mr Rs complaint as I think, the majority of   
Mr Rs complaint points stem from his understanding of the cashback offer.  
I understand from Scottish Friendly that Mr R had opened a total of 16 policies, some of 
which had been closed. However, in line with its terms, Mr Rs accounts have been merged 
into one client reference account, so he is only entitled to one cashback, provided it qualifies 
with the other terms Ive mentioned above. 
Mr R has reiterated that he was incentivised by the cashback offer  he says he was misled 
 and that he should be paid more than he has. But I dont agree. I think the terms and 
conditions are clear from the outset about limitations to the cashback offer. 
Mr R has said that he didnt give Scottish Friendly the authority to merge his ISA accounts 
under one client reference. But again, referring to the terms and conditions above, its clear 
that if there was more than one ISA account, they would be merged. And this is what 
happened. So, like the investigator, I dont think Scottish Friendly has done anything wrong 
as it hasnt acted outside of its terms. 
It was clearly unfortunate that one of the ISA policies was missed when all the ISA policies 
were merged under the one client reference. But I note this was picked up when Mr R was in 
contact with Scottish Friendly in early September and was then put right. I cant see that he 
has been disadvantaged by this or that anything more needs to be done.
It was also unfortunate that due to an IT error Mr R wasnt able to access his policies online. 
While Scottish Friendly has said that it would be easier for Mr R to review his accounts after 
the account merger process with one client reference, there had been a problem with that 
process, and he had been unable to view his policies. But Scottish Friendly has already paid 
Mr R £50 because of that and I think that is reasonable under the circumstances. 
And I dont think that Mr Rs inability to view his account was anything to do with him having 
made a complaint. I cant see that Scottish Friendly would have benefitted at all if it was to 
do that and its not the behaviour I would expect to see from a regulated business. So, I dont 
see this as deliberate on Scottish Friendlys behalf. 
Taking all of the above into account, its acknowledged that there were some errors, but I 
think that what Scottish Friendly has so far offered and paid - £100 in total  is a fair 
reflection of the inconvenience Mr R has been put to. So, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint 
any further than has already been upheld and put right by Scottish Friendly. I dont think 
Scottish Friendly needs to do anything further. 
Quite simply, Mr R was entitled to the cashback offer on only one ISA. However, I note that 
in Scottish Friendlys response to Mr Rs complaint it said that it previously paid the cashback incentive on some of the other ISA policies Mr R held but it had now recognised 
there were multiple applications so no further cashback would be paid  in line with its terms 
and conditions. This suggests to me that Mr R had already been paid more cashback than 
he was entitled to and if that is the case, he is in a better financial position that he would 
otherwise have been.
Overall, I dont think Scottish Friendly have acted unfairly. I cant find that there are any 
breaches of ethics or principles as referred to by Mr R. And while there have been two minor 
errors in Mr Rs dealings with Scottish Friendly  which have been acknowledged, theres 
nothing to make me conclude maladministration has occurred on his accounts. 
As Ive said above, Mr Rs submissions to this service have been many and detailed. So, I 
appreciate that Mr R wont be satisfied with the conclusions Ive reached. But I am satisfied I 
have reviewed all of the issues that I consider to be salient to his complaint. 
No doubt Mr R wont be happy with the outcome, he has invested a lot of time and effort in 
bringing his complaint. However, I hope I have been able to explain to Mr R how and why 
Ive reached the decision that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman