DRN-4027960
The complaint
Mr J complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC let irresponsibly when it approved four 
loans in his name between 2009 and 2018. 
What happened
Mr J has taken four loans with Tesco since 2009 as follows: 
 date 
taken amount payment term
Loan 1 Jun-09 £17,900 £307.07 84
Loan 2 Feb-13 £11,840.45 £233.77 60
Loan 3 Jul-14 £20,000 £223.29 120
Loan 4 Apr-18 £19,170.34 £310.40 84
Mr J has told us the loans were taken for debt consolidation purposes in order to refinance 
existing commitments. 
Mr Js payments towards the loans were made on time with no arrears until 2019. Mr Js 
explained that at this point he experienced financial difficulties as well as problems with his 
health and entered into an IVA. 
Last year, Mr J complained that Tesco had lent irresponsibly when it approved loans in his 
name. Tesco didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly and didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Js complaint. Initially, Tesco objected to our 
service considering complaints about all four loans and said Mr J had waited too long to refer 
his concerns to us. But an ombudsman looked at Tescos objection and issued a decision 
that confirmed the Financial Ombudsman Service can consider the merits of Mr Js 
complaints about all his loans. 
The investigator looked at the available evidence. Due to the passage of time, there was 
limited information from Tesco concerning the first two loans Mr J took. But the investigator 
was satisfied Tesco had carried out credit checks for Loan 2 and taken details of Mr Js 
income. The investigator thought Tesco had completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks when looking at the first two loans. 
For Loan 3, the investigator noted that it was less than 18 months since Mr J had taken out a 
previous loan. The amount of credit was higher and the funds were used, in part, to 
refinance the previous borrowing. The investigator thought this shouldve caused Tesco to 
complete more comprehensive checks before deciding whether to proceed. 
For Loan 4, the investigator noted that Tesco had used a figure of £3,096 a month for Mr Js 
employed income figure and an additional £7,000 of other household income. The 
investigator thought Tesco shouldve carried out better checks before approving Loan 4. 
Mr J sent us a copy of his payslip from around the time he applied for Loan 4 which 
confirmed his income was broadly in line with the employed income figure recorded on his 
application. But Mr J explained that he hadnt ever received £7,000 a month as an additional 
income. 
The payslip was forwarded to Tesco for comment. Tesco responded to say that it had 
mistakenly recorded the additional income figure on the application for Loan 4. But Tesco 
confirmed the loan was still affordable, in terms of its lending criteria, based on Mr Js 
employed income alone. Tesco also said Mr Js loans were repaid without issue until 2019 
when he experienced financial difficulties. Whilst our investigator didnt think Tesco had 
completed proportionate checks, they werent persuaded Loans 3 and 4 were unaffordable. 
Mr J asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our website sets out how we handle complaints relating to irresponsible lending. Ive 
assessed Mr Js complaint in line with our approach. Tesco needed to ensure it lent 
responsibly. That means Tesco needed to complete proportionate checks to understand 
whether Mr J could afford to repay any credit it provided in a sustainable way. Generally, our 
approach is that its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how 
much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. 
The longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable 
and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to be able to show 
that it had continued to carry out proportionate checks to ensure it lent in a responsible 
manner. 
Theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete. But where there are signs a borrower 
may not be able to sustainably repay new borrowing, lenders should consider completing 
more comprehensive checks like, for example, getting evidence of income or bank 
statements. 
In this case, Tescos explained that theres only limited information available to show what 
happened when Mr J first applied in 2009. I accept thats the case. But Tescos advised it 
wouldve carried out a credit search and asked Mr J for information about his circumstances 
and finances. Again, Im satisfied thats most likely the case here. I havent seen anything 
that shows Tesco lent irresponsibly when approving loan one or failed to carry out 
proportionate checks. 
We have more information available to show what happened when Mr J applied for Loan 2. 
Tesco has provided evidence it carried out a credit check and found active accounts in 
Mr Js name. In addition, Mr J gave details of his monthly income and circumstances. It 
appears to me that Tesco was aware of how much Mr J earned and how much he owed to 
other creditors, as well as how his other credit was handled. Im satisfied that the checks 
Tesco made were reasonable and proportionate to the loan Mr J was applying for. As the 
application met Tescos lending criteria, I havent been persuaded it lent irresponsibly. 
As the investigator said, Loan 3 was taken out around 18 months after loan two was 
approved. I note the loan was for substantially more and that the term increased. Given the 
level of borrowing and proximity to Loan 3, I agree with the investigator that Tesco shouldve 
considered completing better checks before deciding to proceed. Loan 4 was approved, again, to refinance existing borrowing. By this point, Loan 3 had been 
maintained without missing a payment for four years. Tescos provided a copy of the 
application that includes both Mr Js earned income and an additional £7,000 a month 
income figure recorded. Tesco concedes the additional income figure was added in error by 
its agent. But I think that using such a large and unknown figure to base a loan application 
on shouldve caused Tesco to ask more questions and obtain further evidence from Mr J to 
show whether the repayments were sustainable. 
One of the options Tesco had was to verify the income figures it used. Mr J has sent us a 
copy of his payslip from 2018, around the time he applied for Loan 4. Whilst the payslip isnt 
dated, it shows a net monthly figure of around £2,780 which is broadly in line with the earned 
income figure given in the application. I think its reasonable to note that the income figure 
used for Loan 3 wasnt inflated in the same way as Loan 4. 
Tesco has provided evidence of the information it considered (including details about how 
much Mr J owed to other creditors). And Tesco says that even if it removed the additional 
£7,000 a month that was incorrectly noted in the application, Loan 4 still passes its 
affordability criteria. In short, Tesco has confirmed that using Mr Js earned income alone (as 
per his payslip) the new borrowing would still have been approved. 
Ive considered the available information. I can see that Mr J owed a substantial amount of 
unsecured debt during his loan applications. But Im satisfied the information on file shows 
Tesco factored that in when considering his applications. And whilst I understand Mr J went 
on to experience financial difficulties, I think Tesco makes a reasonable point when it says 
repayments were made on time and without arrears until 2019, when he entered into an IVA. 
Whilst I agree that Tesco should have carried out better checks when looking at Mr Js 
applications for Loans 3 and 4, I havent been persuaded it lent irresponsibly. The 
information available shows the loans would still most likely have been approved in line with 
Tescos lending criteria even if further checks had been completed. 
As I havent been persuaded that Tesco lent irresponsibly, Im not telling it to take any further 
action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman