DRN-1865510
The complaint
Mrs J has complained about the service she has been provided by Liverpool Victoria 
Friendly Society Limited ("LV") in relation to pension savings that she holds with the 
company. Specifically her complaint comprises three aspects;
That a letter sent to her in June 2019 contained an incorrect fund value
That LV failed to process a pension contribution in a timely manner
That LV failed to include a reply-paid envelope as promised when she needed to 
return her confirmation that she'd been advised about some new regulations. 
What happened
Mrs J has been helped throughout her complaint by her husband. But for ease, in this 
decision, I will refer to all communication as having been with, and from, Mrs J herself.
Mrs J held pension savings in a self administered personal pension (SIPP) with LV. In 
June 2019 Mrs J was approaching her selected retirement date. So, in line with best practice 
and the regulatory guidance, LV wrote to Mrs J to give her information about how she could 
access her pension benefits. As part of that letter LV provided Mrs J with what it described 
as "the current value" of her pension savings. The letter that was sent to Mrs J was dated 24 
June 2019.
On 14 June 2019 Mrs J had contacted LV to withdraw some of her pension savings. That 
request, for £5,900, was processed and paid to Mrs J on 19 June. But that withdrawal wasn't 
included in the figures provided to Mrs J in the letter sent on 24 June. Mrs J got in touch with 
LV on the day following receipt of the letter to query the value of her pension savings. LV 
explained that the information had been collated before Mrs J had made her withdrawal 
request. So the correct value of her pension savings was lower than shown on the letter.
In February 2019 Mrs J had sent an application form, and cheque, to LV in order to make an 
additional contribution to her pension. Around a week later, when LV hadn't acknowledged 
receipt of that application, she got in touch with the company. LV explained that it had no 
record of receiving Mrs J's application. So Mrs J sent a duplicate application, and new 
cheque, the following day. Although there was a slight error on the application form that 
Mrs J needed to correct, LV processed her application on receipt.
Around two weeks later LV says that it received Mrs J's original application and cheque. It 
appears that application had been delayed, through no fault of LV, in the postal system. So 
LV sent the original cheque back to Mrs J so it could be cancelled.
In July 2019 LV wrote to Mrs J to tell her about some changes to regulations relating to 
drawdown arrangements. It asked Mrs J to confirm receipt of the letter by returning a form in 
a pre-paid envelope. But LV didn't include that envelope so Mrs J needed to get in touch to 
request it.
LV dealt with all three parts of Mrs J's complaint in a single response. It didn't agree that it 
had done anything wrong in respect of the processing of the additional contribution. But it 
explained why the letter it sent on 24 June contained an out of date valuation, and apologised for not having included the reply-paid envelope in July. It thought these 
matters might have caused some upset to Mrs J so offered her £100 as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mrs J didn't accept that offer so brought her complaint to this service.
Mrs J's complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that the offer 
LV had made to Mrs J was fair. So she didn't think LV needed to do anything further. 
Mrs J didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I will deal with each part of Mrs J's complaint in turn.
LV has explained that the production of the letters sent to consumers approaching their 
selected retirement date is done in batches. And it says that some of the data used in those 
letters relating to fund values needs to be collated manually. So that information is extracted 
from its systems some days before the letters are produced. And of course, that information 
cannot take account of any subsequent one-off withdrawal, or contribution, requests that a 
consumer makes.
So I don't think it would be fair of me to conclude that the valuation LV provided to Mrs J 
should have been exact. As the letter explains, that value will also be affected by any 
changes in the value of the underlying investments and so is not guaranteed and may go up 
as well as down. But I think it might have been helpful if the letter had made clear the date 
on which the valuation had been calculated. That would have allowed Mrs J to understand 
more easily, without having to contact LV, that her withdrawal had occurred after the 
valuation had been produced.
But Mrs J contacted LV almost immediately she received the letter, and LV updated the 
valuation it had provided. Although I appreciate this might have been disappointing for Mrs J, 
I don't think it means she has lost out. She was never entitled to the higher valuation, once 
her withdrawal had been processed, and I haven't seen anything to make me think she took 
any irrevocable financial decisions based on the out of date information. As I've said, LV 
provided Mrs J with an updated valuation just a couple of days after the letter had been sent.
Turning now to the application Mrs J made to add a contribution to her pension savings. I 
have no doubts that Mrs J sent her application, and cheque, to LV around the date that she 
says. But, as this letter wasn't something that LV was expecting from Mrs J, it wouldn't have 
known it hadn't arrived until Mrs J got in touch around a week later. And I haven't seen 
anything to persuade me that the letter had arrived at LV's offices and been mislaid. So I 
think it was entirely reasonable for LV to ask Mrs J to send a duplicate application. I can't 
fairly say that LV was responsible for any delays in adding this contribution to Mrs J's 
pension savings.LV says that Mrs J's original application did arrive at its offices on 20 March. It can't explain 
why its receipt had been delayed for so long. But I am aware that, from time to time, items 
sent by post do take a while to be successfully delivered through no fault of either the sender 
or the recipient. And I think that is what most likely happened here. So I don't think I can 
fairly say that Mrs J needing to send a new application was because of something LV did 
wrong.
It is unfortunate that LV's letter to Mrs J in July 2019 didn't include the promised reply-paid 
envelope. And whilst that might seem a trivial problem it came on the back of Mrs J already 
having two other issues on which she was dissatisfied with LV's services. But the letter that 
LV sent was being issued to a large number of its customers. And when performing a 
mailing of that size it is always possible that an inadvertent error might result in an 
enclosure, such as a return envelope, being omitted. 
I can see that LV responded promptly when Mrs J told it about the missing envelope. It 
apologised for the inconvenience and sent a replacement to her. So I don't think I should 
expect LV to do anything more in relation to this part of Mrs J's complaint.
Overall I don't think that Mrs J has lost out as a result of something that LV has done wrong. 
I appreciate that these matters might have caused some upset to Mrs J, but I think LV 
responded positively and promptly to her concerns. So I don't think this complaint should be 
upheld. I would expect that LV will still honour the gesture of goodwill it offered to Mrs J but 
that is for the business to decide. If Mrs J now wishes to accept that offer she should get in 
touch with LV directly
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman