DRN-2212400
The complaint
Mr L and Miss P have complained about Pink Pig Loans Limited, a mortgage broker, saying:
They were put under pressure by Pink Pig to hand-deliver their secured loan 
paperwork to the lender.
They received letters from Pink Pig after their loan had been live for a year or so 
offering to see if the interest rate could be reduced, but when they phoned up about it 
they never received a call back.
What happened
Mr L and Miss P signed the paperwork to apply for a secured loan through Pink Pig on 
1 August 2017. The loan was with a lender that Ill call S.
The secured loan offer was issued by S on Friday 11 August 2017 and Pink Pig emailed that 
to Mr L and Miss P the same day.
There followed this email trail, all on 11 August 2017.
Pink Pig:Please find attached your binding offer. The mortgage deed (page 31) will need 
to be signed in the presence of a witness who cannot be a family member and 
cannot reside in the property. 
This will then need to be posted back to the below address special delivery.
[lenders address]
Can you email the tracking number once it has been posted so that I can chase 
the lender for completion as soon as it arrives with them?
Pink Pig:Sorry forgot to attach the document. Here it is.
Miss P:I still cant see it.
Pink Pig:Have sent it again, let me know if you dont receive it.
Miss P:I got it now.
Pink Pig:Any questions just give us a call.
Once the binding offer has been received by the lender they will need to do a 
security call with yourself and [Mr L]. If you give me a call first thing Monday 
morning I will run through the type of things they will go over with you.
Miss P:Can we deliver by hand this evening?
Pink Pig:That should be fine, just make sure it is addressed to the [lender] Underwriting 
Department.
There is a security guard on the front desk but if he is not there, there should be 
a gap big enough to post it through.
Miss P:Are your offices open on a Saturday morning?
we could both come and drop the form in.
Pink Pig:No the lender is closed on a Saturday but the security guard should be there.
Miss P: OK.
Thank you so much for your help and Assistance.
Have a great weekend.
Then on 12 August 2017, Miss P emailed Pink Pig:
[Mr L] dropped the signed form off yesterday evening.
To which Pink Pig replied the same day:
[Pink Pig staff member] will call you Monday, run through a quick security call. The 
lender will then do the same and funds released around 3pm Monday.
Great team effort. If I dont get to speak with you, have a wonderful holiday. Pleasure 
working with you both.
The secured loan completed on Monday 14 August 2017 as intended.
On 13 September 2018 Pink Pig wrote to Mr L and Miss P to say that as some time had 
passed since theyd taken out their loan it may now be able to find them a loan at a lower 
interest rate.
Mr L and Miss P say they phoned Pink Pig and were told theyd receive a call back, but that 
didnt happen.
A further letter was sent to Mr L and Miss P by Pink Pig on 19 March 2019. This one didnt 
mention a new rate, it just said You may recall arranging a 2nd charge mortgage with us 
some time ago. And asked them to call at their earliest convenience.
This time Mr L got through to Pink Pig and we have a recording of the call that took place. In 
that call Pink Pig said its letter was a courtesy to see if it could find a better rate. Mr L said 
hed phoned up in response to the letter in 2018 and no-one had got back to him. The 
adviser said they could now look at things and asked if anything had changed. Mr L said 
their income had dropped as hed lost his job in December 2017, and his new job didnt pay 
as much. He said hed then been let go from his new job in May 2018, and found another job 
in June 2018 but again it didnt pay as well.
On 25 October 2019 Pink Pig wrote to Mr L and Miss P to thank them for completing some 
paperwork so a review of the advice could be undertaken. It asked them to complete a 
questionnaire and said, upon receipt, it would review the advice.Following the review Pink Pig offered Mr L and Miss P £396.69 compensation. That equated 
to a refund of the advice element of the broker fee (£325) plus interest up to the date of the 
letter.
Mr L and Miss P referred the complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr L and Miss P didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
2017 return of paperwork
Ive carefully considered Mr L and Miss Ps testimony, but its not supported by the evidence. 
For instance, on our complaint form Mr L and Miss P said they:
 had to ask the security person to take the letter and put it into the mail box, which 
he was not too pleased about, we were not aware that there would be no one else to 
receive the documents.
But they were aware that there would be no one else to receive the documents and theyd 
need to hand them to the security guard because Miss P had been told exactly that by email 
earlier that day:
That should be fine, just make sure it is addressed to the [lender] Underwriting 
Department.
There is a security guard on the front desk but if he is not there, there should be a gap 
big enough to post it through.
They also said, on our complaint form:
We were due to go on holiday on Monday 21st August 2017, the company told us we 
will need to sign the the forms TODAY, (Friday 18th August 2017) and get them to [the 
lender] by the end of the day otherwise by the time we return from our holiday the 
interest rates will/may go up. 
But again, thats not supported by the email trail Mr L and Miss P have provided to us 
(ignoring the fact they are a week out in their dates, with everything happening between 
Friday 11 August and Monday 14 August).
On 11 August Pink Pig said This will then need to be posted back to the below address 
special delivery. It was Miss P that raised the matter of delivering it by hand that evening 
Can we deliver by hand this evening?
In their response to our investigator, Mr L and Miss P said:
I have included the email correspondence between [Miss P] and Pig Pigs loans with 
regards to having the signed documents to be received on Monday 14th August 2017, 
when we would have been out of the country. As we both were to work on Friday and 
Saturday, (we would have got there early in the morning before work) due to the 
holiday we would not be able to post the documents in time by special delivery as 
requested to reach them on the Monday, hence the reason why I had to travel to the 
offices.Unfortunately, the telephone conversation, via mobile phones which stated the 
document had to be with them on Monday cannot be used as evidence.
Having the funds in the account on Monday enabled us to transfer the builders [sic] 
initial fees or [sic] the building works to commence on the Monday whilst we were 
away. There was a signed document which I cannot seem to retrieve but it was 
mentioned in this email trail.
And in their questionnaire Mr L and Miss P had completed in 2019 as part of Pink Pigs 
assessment of the advice that had been given, theyd said:
We were advised to ensure the signed documents were hand delivered to [the lender] 
before we left the country for a holiday on Monday 14th August 2017. We arrived there 
at 9.00pm on Friday 11th August and had to convince the security guard to take the 
documents to the office for us. The adviser called from a mobile phone on Saturday to 
confirm whether we delivered the documents.
I cant see why the adviser would have phoned Mr L and Miss P on Saturday (12 August) to 
ask whether theyd delivered the documents as Miss P had already emailed at 8.22am (or 
possibly 7.22am as Pink Pigs reply was timed at 7.48am, so one of the email accounts was 
set an hour out) to say [Mr L] dropped the signed form off yesterday evening. In any event 
that alleged call doesnt alter the outcome, as it was made after the hand-delivery had 
already been made.
Mr L and Miss P have said
Pink Pig were very clever in sending emails and making telephone calls, all the 
conversations regarding the urgency and the change of interest rates were conducted 
by telephone. Please let us know how to post something on a Friday to reach the 
recipient by Monday without getting to a post office, while we are both working other 
than by hand.
It may be Pink Pig did tell Mr L and Miss P that the signed paperwork had to be with S by 
Monday 14 August, but that would have been correct advice in the context of everything 
else. 
The mortgage offer was only issued on Friday 11 August and that included the paperwork 
that needed to be completed and returned. So the earliest Mr L and Miss P could have had 
the paperwork they needed to sign and return was Friday 11 August.
Mr L and Miss P have told us they were both at work that day and on the Saturday so 
couldnt get to a post office to send the paperwork back in time for delivery on Monday. 
Theyve also said they were going on holiday on the Monday and they wanted the funds in 
their account that day so they could transfer the builders initial fees so the building works 
could commence whilst they were away.
It seems, all things considered, that if Mr L and Miss P wanted to get the funds on the 
Monday and were unable to get to a post office on the Friday or Saturday, then they always 
needed to hand deliver the paperwork to the lenders office, irrespective of whose idea it 
was. I cant hold Pink Pig liable for that.The offers to consider a new rate
Mr L and Miss P have said:
We received two letters direct from Pink Pig Loans (attached) offering to see whether 
they could reduce the interest rate, we called them on the date the letters were 
received, 17/9/18 and 25/03/2019 and a few days following and spoke to someone and 
they said they would call us back, not once did we receive a call back. Of course we 
would have appreciated the lower interest rate.
It is unfortunate that Mr L and Miss P didnt follow the 2018 contact up at the time when they 
hadnt received a call back that they were expecting. Its not clear what went wrong there but 
bearing in mind the information Mr L gave Pink Pig in 2019 about their reduced income from 
December 2017 it seems there would have been nothing Pink Pig could have done anyway.
In 2019 Mr L got through to Pink Pig and we have a recording of the call that took place. In 
that call Pink Pig said its letter was a courtesy to see if it could find a better rate. Mr L said 
hed phoned up in response to the letter in 2018 and no-one had got back to him. The 
adviser said they could now look at things and asked if anything had changed. Mr L said 
their income had dropped as hed lost his job in December 2017, and his new job didnt pay 
as much. He said hed then been let go from his new job in May 2018 and found another job 
in June 2018 but again it didnt pay as well.
Again, its not clear what happened following that call as it was left that someone would call 
Mr L back. But again, it seems unlikely Pink Pig could have done anything to help as - with 
the reduced income - affordability for a new loan would have been an issue, as it would have 
been treated as a whole new application that needed underwriting.
Pink Pig has apologised for the poor service it provided and said relevant training would be 
given to ensure it didnt happen again. Having considered everything, Im satisfied thats 
enough and no compensation is due, as Pink Pig didnt have to offer the review and it 
seems, based on Mr Ls changed circumstances, a new rate wouldnt have been available.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr L and Miss P to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.  
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman