DRN-3897900
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to refund transactions he didnt recognise 
after fraud was discovered on his account.
What happened
What Mr A says
Mr A reported to Barclays that his account was blocked, and hed noticed a number of 
transactions that he didnt recognise.
Mr A told Barclays that his phone and debit card had been stolen. He said that he wasnt 
using a password to lock the phone at the time. He also said that his bank login security 
details were recorded on a note taking app on his phone. Mr A described how he was able to 
get his phone back after a few days of it going missing and thats when he noticed problems 
with his account.
Mr A sought a refund for the debt that was present on his account and believed that other 
individuals had impersonated him to obtain funds through the loss of his phone. Barclays 
had provided a temporary credit to the account based on calls made to them which formed 
the basis for the debt. Barclays declined to refund the payments to Mr A. He then made a 
complaint to Barclays.
What Barclays said
Barclays received notification from Mr A about the problems with his account and noted that 
several calls to them had taken pace about the account during the time that Mr A had said 
his phone was missing. These calls had been made to report fraud on earlier transactions 
and the result was that Barclays issued a temporary credit whilst the issue was investigated. 
These funds were then transferred out of the account.
Once Barclays looked into the issue, they asked Mr A if hed notified the police, which he 
told them he hadnt. Barclays didnt accept that the debt was the result of a stolen phone and 
declined to make a refund, a position they maintained after Mr A complained to them.
The investigation so far
Mr A brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review 
where it was looked into by one of our investigators. Information about the issue was sought 
from both parties. Mr A explained what had happened and his belief that he wasnt 
responsible for the disputed transactions. He believed that they were the result of his phone 
being stolen and the impersonation of him by others. Mr A confirmed that he hadnt notified 
the police about the loss of his phone and said that Barclays were going to do it on his 
behalf. He told the investigator that his phone sometimes used a lock code to protect it, but 
not at the time of the theft. He said that all his online banking details were present on the 
notes section of his phone which he believed was the reason why his account was misused. 
He denied any knowledge of the reports of fraud.
Barclays provided details of their records and numerous phone calls they received reporting 
fraudulent payments. Audit information showed Mr As phone being used to make various 
bank transfers during the period he says it was in the hands of the thieves.
After considering the evidence, the investigator didnt think that Barclays should be 
responsible for the debt and held Mr A liable. His complaint wasnt upheld. He disagreed 
with the investigators outcome and commented that others were impersonating him and that 
it wouldnt make sense for him to report transactions as fraud from a business he regularly 
used.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Barclays can hold Mr A liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Barclays can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr A authorised the 
transactions, but Barclays cannot say that the use of the internet/telephone banking details 
conclusively proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Barclays can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr As account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mr A. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr A responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
The loss that Barclays are currently holding Mr A liable for was created by claiming that 
earlier transactions with one merchant were fraudulent. Under some circumstances, 
Barclays can issue a temporary refund against the claim while the circumstances are 
investigated. The refund can then be reclaimed if the claim is rejected. Here, over £6,000 
was claimed in fraudulent transactions resulting in numerous temporary refunds into Mr As 
account. It was that money that was then transferred over numerous online and telephone 
banking transactions that Mr A is claiming he wasnt responsible for.
The scenario given by Mr A is that his phone was taken which wasnt using any security to 
protect it. All the necessary security details were written down on the note app on his phone 
and his debit card had also been taken along with the phone. He told Barclays hed got his 
phone back a few days later via someone who knew the thieves.
So here, Mr A had two separate pieces of his banking items stolen (his phone with the 
banking app and his debit card) and he neither called the police or notified the bank of the 
loss. I find that unusual because when Mr A had his phone stolen, he couldnt have known 
that hed get it back after a few days. Mr A knew his online banking was at risk because his 
online banking credentials were written down on his phone which didnt have any protection 
to prevent unauthorised use and his debit card could also be abused by these thieves. A call 
to the bank at the time of the loss would likely have prevented the abuse of his account. 
Mr A later said that Barclays were going to report the matter to the police on his behalf. I dont think is a normal offer for them to make in such circumstances. The only references I 
could find to the police was where Barclays asked Mr A if hed reported the matter to them. 
By the time that Mr A first spoke to Barclays, it was already a number of days after the loss, 
so Im unsure why he thought they were going to do it on his behalf. It was Mr As 
responsibility to notify the bank and the police.
The calls to the bank that resulted in the temporary refunds required the caller to pass 
security with the bank and know personal details about Mr A. Whilst its possible that some 
of these details were also contained in the phone, I found the timing to be unusual. The 
thieves seemed to have taken his unlocked phone, gathered his personal details and found 
the online banking logins. They did this whilst pretending to be him and then identifying 
numerous payments into his account from one particular merchant to then claim they were 
fraudulent. There seems to be a lot of organisation required here, which I have some doubt 
was carried out based on a random robbery of Mr As phone, which he then got back within 
a day or so of its loss.
Ive no doubt that various aspects to this incident were as the result of others being involved, 
but the question here is can Barclays hold Mr A liable for the transactions? Mr A himself 
didnt have to be directly involved in the calls etc if the evidence shows it was more likely 
than not that he authorised others to use his phone to access the banking app and provided 
details of his security and personal information to enable his account to be used. There are 
several aspects to Mr As version of events that I dont think are either a plausible or realistic 
explanation of what happened.
Ive also thought about his obligations as an account holder which include notifying his bank 
if he loses his mobile banking device or his card. He lost both of these items but didnt notify 
Barclays about them for several days. So, even if I was persuaded that Mr A had nothing to 
do with the disputed transactions, Id still be unlikely to uphold it as he failed to notify 
Barclays which could have prevented all the subsequent losses. In such a case, I think it 
would be unfair to ask them to write off the debt.
Theres also an issue related to the use of a device (phone) that has no security protection to 
write down the details required to access online banking. If that were the case then Mr A 
would have to be able to explain why he did this. Thats because hes required to protect 
those details from unauthorised use. Using an unlocked device to do that and clearly 
recording them in a note app is arguably in breach of his account terms and conditions. But 
here, Im not basing my decision on this, rather that I think, having examined all the 
evidence, that its more likely than not that Mr A was responsible for these transactions or 
allowing others to make the refund application and subsequent transfers out of his account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman