DRN-2718383
The complaint
Mr S says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Woolwich) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2008. Mr S paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered him in case he was off work sick or 
lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case. 
While I know this will disappoint Mr S, I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold  Ill 
explain why.
From the records of Mr Ss mortgage application, I can see that he was recommended PPI  
and this was only a recommendation, not a requirement, which he was free to accept or turn 
down. The PPI was described as optional and its recorded that Mr S was offered a choice 
about buying PPI and chose what cover he wanted. The PPIs cost was set out separately to 
the cost of the mortgage itself, and Mr S signed a direct debit mandate specifically for PPI  
the policy was not part and parcel of the lending. The policy was not a condition of his 
mortgage either. And both the key facts document and mortgage offer set out that Mr S 
didnt have to buy any insurance from Woolwich if he didnt want to, and that the only type of 
insurance he had to have was buildings cover.
I understand Mr S recalls being given the impression that he needed to take PPI to get his 
mortgage approved, and I have thought carefully about this point. I dont doubt that Mr S has 
given us his best recollections  though I do have to bear in mind that memories fade over 
time and this sale was long ago. Ive not seen any wider problems with Barclays sales 
process from the time, nor any evidence which shows that Mr S was misled into buying PPI 
here. And from the evidence I have from the time, it looks like it wouldve been made clear 
that the PPI was optional. So overall, I think its most likely that Woolwich made Mr S aware 
he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  though I can 
understand if he no longer remembers doing so after so long.
Woolwich recommended the PPI to Mr S, so they had to check it was right for him. And 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks 
like Mr S was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations. Mr S only had limited work benefits and savings, and the PPI would have paid 
out on top of those and covered him for far longer. And ultimately, the mortgage was 
secured to Mr Ss home. So the PPI could have really been useful for him in protecting his 
home and providing some peace of mind.
The cost and benefit of the policy were set out clearly. So I think Mr S wouldve understood 
how much he would need to pay for the PPI if he chose it, and what it could pay out.
It is possible that Woolwich didnt point out all the main things the policy wouldnt cover. But 
as I explained above, Mr S doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things.
Lastly, I understand there was a period where Mr S wanted to claim on the PPI, but wasnt 
able to. From the records I have, its not clear what happened there. But I can see that at the 
time of the sale, Mr S was eligible for the policy and it wouldve been suitable for him in his 
circumstances, so I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. In this case, my decision is only about 
the sale of the policy, rather than what happened afterwards. But Mr S may be able to make 
a back-dated claim with Barclays or ask them to re-assess his claim if hes not out of time to 
do so. If hed like to do that, he should get in touch with Barclays in the first instance. And if 
he has any trouble with the back-dated claim, Mr S can always get back in touch with our 
service and we can see if were able to help as a separate case.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman