DRN-1360729
The complaint
Mr G has complained because he experienced difficulties when making a mobile phone 
insurance claim. The claim was made on a Tech Pack that was provided by Barclays Bank 
UK Plc (Barclays).
Mr G says that when he contacted Barclays about this, it refused to help him and didnt 
contact him when it said it would.
What happened
Following his complaint, Barclays apologised for any inconvenience Mr G mayve 
experienced and offered to pay him £40. But it said it was not responsible for how Mr Gs 
claim was handled.
Our adjudicator considered what Mr G and Barclays have said and provided, and she 
agreed that what Barclays had offered to put matters right was reasonable and so didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr G disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and I used this to help me decide this complaint.
Having considered what Mr G has said, I understand why he believes that Barclays should 
be held responsible for how his claim was handled. But Barclays was correct in saying that it 
is not responsible for Mr Gs complaint about how his mobile phone insurance claim was 
handled. I will explain why.
The Tech Pack terms and conditions, which Mr G shouldve been provided with when the 
Tech Pack was sold to him, say:
Policy Document
This is your Tech Pack Insurance Policy. In this document you will find everything 
you need to know. Please read this carefully to make sure this policy is right for you. 
If you have any questions then visit [website] This policy constitutes an agreement 
between you and the insurer [name of insurer]. The insurer has appointed [name of 
policy administrator] to administer the policy. References to we/us/our relates to 
[insurer] and [policy administrator]
In addition to the above, under the making an enquiry or complaint section of the policy, it 
explains that should the policyholder wish to make a complaint, they should contact the 
policy administrator, not Barclays.
So in this case Barclays was essentially acting as an intermediary, selling an insurance 
product that is actually underwritten and administered by another company. This is not 
unusual for insurance products provided by a packaged account and is a fairly standard 
practice in the insurance industry. 
As such, Barclays was responsible for providing Mr G with the correct information about the 
insurance policy when the Tech Pack was sold to him. Its also responsible for correctly 
collecting the premiums - or in this case, the monthly Tech Pack fees. But it is the insurer 
who is responsible for dealing with claims in line with the terms and conditions of the mobile 
phone insurance. And it is the insurer who is responsible for dealing with complaints about 
the mobile phone insurance - although note that it has appointed a third party (which I 
understand Mr G has already complained to) to administer the policy on its behalf.
As this complaint is against Barclays, and not the insurer, Im unable to consider whether the 
mobile phone insurance claim was handled correctly or in a reasonable manner. But I 
understand that, in trying to resolve matters, Mr G contacted Barclays a number of times. 
And Barclays has offered to pay Mr G £40 for the inconvenience he experienced in 
contacting it. Based on what Ive seen, I think that Barclayss offer is reasonable in the 
circumstances. So I dont think Barclays needs to do anything further in relation to this 
matter, beyond what it has already offered him.
Finally, I appreciate that Mr G is unhappy with Barclayss choice of insurer for the Tech Pack 
mobile phone insurance policy. But which insurer Barclays wishes to use for the Tech Pack 
phone cover is a decision it is reasonably entitled to make. So, in other words, if Mr G is 
unhappy with Barclayss choice of insurer, it is up to Mr G to decide whether the Tech Pack 
continues to be the right product for him.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Therefore, Barclays Bank 
UK Plc is not required to do anything further, beyond what it has already offered to do, in 
relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman