DRN-2784604
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that TSB Bank plc (trading as Whistletree) unfairly charged additional 
interest to their mortgage after a cheque bounced.
  
What happened
  Mr and Mrs J had a mortgage with Whistletree. In February 2020, Mr and Mrs J asked if 
they could redeem the mortgage  and Whistletree sent them a redemption statement. This 
said that if they wanted to repay the mortgage on 19 February, theyd need to pay 
£147,822.13. It also said that if they repaid the mortgage after that date, interest would be 
added to this figure daily  and that if they repaid the mortgage after 29 February 2020, 
theyd need to request a new mortgage statement.
After Mr and Mrs J received the statement, they sent Whistletree a cheque by post. When 
Whistletree received the cheque, it applied the funds to the account, and marked the 
account as redeemed. At the same time it charged Mr and Mrs J a £250 administration fee.
But Mr and Mrs Js bank didnt honour the cheque. After the cheque was returned to 
Mr and Mrs J, later in February, they contacted Whistletree to see if they could instead repay 
the mortgage by Bacs transfer. As the account had been marked as redeemed, however, 
they were unable to do this. Whistletree then referred the matter internally to another 
department. This took five days, at which point Whistletree were able to reopen the account 
so payment could be taken. 
It was now, however, March  and this meant Whistletree issued a new mortgage 
redemption statement. This said Mr and Mrs J now needed to pay £148,291.49  or £469.36 
more than theyd have paid originally. This included a further £250 administration fee.
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that Whistletree charged these extra amounts.
After the complaint was referred to us, Whistletree agreed to refund the additional £250 
administration fee. Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought Whistletree should 
also refund some of the additional interest it charged. Whistletree didnt agree  it didnt think 
the delay was its fault.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 July 2021.
I said that based on what Id seen, Mr and Mrs J had paid £469.36 more in March to redeem 
their mortgage than they would have done if theyd repaid it in February. This included a 
£250 administration fee to redeem the mortgage (which Whistletree had charged twice). It 
also included an extra £252.14 in interest. Because Mr and Mrs Js cheque didnt clear, 
Whistletree charged a £6.50 unpaid cheque fee. But I also see that when Whistletree posted 
the original redemption cheque to the account, it also credited the account with £39.28 as a 
loss on redemption. This credit wasnt reversed when the redemption was reversed. Taken 
together, this means that, having offset the credit, Mr and Mrs J paid an extra £250 towards 
the fee, plus an additional £219.36 in interest and charges.
I therefore thought the main questions I needed to decide were:
Whether Whistletree were allowed to charge this extra amount under the terms and 
conditions of the account; and
Whether it was fair for Whistletree to do this.
Whistletree had sent me a copy of the mortgage offer. I saw that this allowed Whistletree to 
charge a discharge of mortgage fee of £250 when the mortgage is repaid in full. Whistletree 
charged this amount twice. Whistletree confirmed that it should only have charged one of 
these fees. It said it has paid this to Mr and Mrs J. More recently, it offered to pay simple 
interest on this amount to compensate Mr and Mrs J for the time they were out of pocket.
So I looked at the rest of what Mr and Mrs J had paid.
Whistletree charged Mr and Mrs J additional interest, to reflect the delay in the repayment. 
The mortgage offer says that the interest on Mr and Mrs Js mortgage accrued daily, and 
was applied to the account monthly  and that if they repaid the mortgage early, theyd need 
to pay the interest up to the end of the month in which they repaid it.
I also saw that Whistletrees tariff of mortgage charges included a fee of £6.50 where a 
cheque is returned unpaid by their bank. And here, Mr and Mrs J said their bank didnt 
honour their cheque. So I also think Whistletree were allowed to charge this fee when the 
cheque didnt clear.
So I next went on to think about whether what Whistletree had done is fair.
I said the reason Mr and Mrs J werent able to redeem the mortgage in February was 
because their own bank didnt honour the cheque. Theyd told us their bank said there was 
an issue with the signature on the cheque  they also said its possible that their bank had 
concerns about the size of the cheque. Either way, Im satisfied this isnt something 
Whistletree were responsible for. 
Based on what Id seen, Mr and Mrs Js cheque was received by Whistletree on 23 February 
 and was posted to the account on 24 February. And I saw that on the late afternoon of 26 
February, Whistletrees notes recorded that the cheque had not yet cleared, and that the 
transaction would be put on hold. Mr and Mrs J then contacted Whistletree on 27 February 
to explain what had happened to the cheque. Mr and Mrs J then offered to make the 
payment by Bacs  but Whistletree had by this point already marked the account as 
redeemed and so werent able to do this. And this meant that, by the time Whistletree 
reopened the account a few days later, it was the next month and so additional interest was 
due.
I thought about this. By the time Mr and Mrs J notified Whistletree of the problem, it was very 
nearly the end of the month. Whistletree said that the department that needed to look at the 
issue could take up to five days to look at these issues. So I could understand why 
Whistletree werent able to sort things out quicker.
That said, Whistletree chose to mark the account as redeemed even though the cheque 
hadnt cleared. It knew the cheque hadnt cleared before Mr and Mrs J contacted them. I saw 
the redemption statement said that if a cheque hadnt cleared then the mortgage wouldnt be 
discharged until the full balance had been paid. Mr and Mrs J contacted Whistletree as soon 
as they realised there was a problem. And Im satisfied they intended to repay the 
outstanding balance in full.Having weighed up all of this, I didnt think it was fair to insist Mr and Mrs J pay all the 
additional interest that had accrued during this period. The only reason they werent able to 
repay the mortgage in February was because Whistletree werent able to reopen the account 
in time. Part of the delay was caused by Whistletree. So I thought it would be fair to take that 
into account and treat Mr and Mrs J as if theyd redeemed the mortgage on 27 February 
2020.
Whistletree had already refunded the additional mortgage administration fee. 
The mortgage redemption statement said that Whistletree would charge Mr and Mrs J an 
additional £19.34 a day if they redeemed the mortgage after 19 February 2020. I didnt think 
it would be fair to tell Whistletree to refund the interest for the period from 19 February 2020 
to 27 February 2020  as I thought this interest would be charged anyway: the original 
payment failed because Mr and Mrs Js cheque didnt clear.
However, I did think it would be fair for Whistletree to refund the interest it charged between 
27 February and 3 March when the mortgage was finally redeemed. I worked this out to be 
£64.64.
As Mr and Mrs J had been out of pocket for these amounts, I also said Whistletree should 
pay interest at 8% simple a year to compensate them for the time theyd been out of pocket.
I asked everyone to respond by 16 August.
Whistletree has replied to say it agrees with my provisional decision.  Mr and Mrs J have 
confirmed receiving the decision but havent sent me anything further to consider. Ive looked 
at the complaint again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Whistletree has agreed with my provisional decision. As neither Whistletree or Mr and 
Mrs J have sent me anything further to consider, I reach the same findings as my provisional 
decision for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Whistletree has already refunded the £250 fee. It has agreed to pay £64.64 to reflect the 
additional interest it charged Mr and Mrs J. 
It should also add simple interest (the rate is 8% simple a year) to compensate Mr and Mrs J 
for the time theyve been out of pocket. HM Revenue & Customs require Whistletree to 
deduct tax from this interest. It should send Mr and Mrs J a certificate setting this out if they 
ask for one.My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. TSB Bank plc should put things 
right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman