DRN-4423179
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Lloyds Bank hasnt refunded them in full when Mr G sent a 
payment for an investment which later turned out to have been a scam.
Mr and Mrs G bring their complaint through a professional representative firm, which has 
provided evidence and arguments on their behalf. However, in what follows, to aid 
readability, and because the disputed payment was made by Mr G, I will predominantly be 
referring to Mr G. 
What happened
Mr G explains that he is a client of a large UK investment broker (which I will refer to as B). 
In common with many other such brokers, B provides an email alerting service notifying 
interested clients of any upcoming Initial Public Offerings (IPO). 
In late 2021, Mr G received an email he says appeared to have originated with B. This 
recommended he invest in a forthcoming IPO. It said this would enable Mr G to purchase 
shares in a popular fin-tech company. 
Unfortunately, Mr G no longer has a copy of this email but recalls it provided an explanation 
of why this usually high-risk investment was being recommended for him. He says the email 
included all of the risk warnings hed expect  he has previous experience in investing in 
IPOs.
Mr G was interested in what was suggested and made contact on the number given. He was 
told to expect a return of between 20% and 30% within the first day of trading. The payment 
destination hed been given wasnt the same as hed usually use when sending payments to 
B. However, Mr G believed the IPO was being organised by another firm (which he believed 
to be involved in similar investments  which Ill refer to as C). He says he checked Cs 
legitimate website and saw that a person of the same name he was dealing with worked 
there.
Based on what hed been told, Mr G sent a payment of £10,069 by Faster Payments from 
his and his wifes joint account with Lloyds. 
Unfortunately, it transpired that Mr G had been dealing with a scammer rather than B or C. 
The IPO was fictitious, and his funds were lost. He reported the matter to Lloyds.
Lloyds attempted to recover his funds. The relevant payment had been made to a currency 
transfer platform, and it seems his money had been immediately dispersed on receipt. So, 
nothing remained to be retrieved, leaving Mr and Mrs G with a substantial loss.
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (the CRM Code) which can offer additional protection from APP scams. Lloyds said it 
wouldnt refund Mr G in full because it didnt think hed held a reasonable basis for believing 
he was sending money to whom he thought he was, or that he was paying for genuine 
shares. But Lloyds reimbursed Mr G half of the loss, accepting a share of the responsibility.
Mr G didnt accept this outcome. He wanted Lloyds to refund him in full.
Our Investigator looked into everything but didnt think Lloyds had treated Mr G unfairly or 
that it needed to refund him more than the 50% it had paid him. The investigator thought the 
promise of a return of 20-30% within a day should have prompted Mr G to carry out further 
checks before going ahead. Had Mr G carried out additional checks hed have uncovered 
that this wasnt genuine, and no such IPO was taking place.
Mr G didnt agree. In light of this disagreement, I have been asked to make a final decision 
on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In law, Lloyds has a primary obligation to carry out the payment instructions given by its 
customers in accordance with the payment mandate. As a starting point, a customer is 
therefore assumed liable for a payment they have instructed to be made.
But that isnt the end of the story. In particular, as Ive mentioned earlier, the voluntary CRM 
Code can provide additional protection where payments have been made as the result of an 
APP scam. Lloyds hasnt disputed that the additional protections of the CRM Code should 
apply here. Under the terms of the CRM Code, the bank has reimbursed Mr G half of the 
money he sent from its account.
Lloyds accepts partial fault, but it considers Mr G must equally share responsibility for the 
loss. So, what remains for me to determine is whether that is a fair outcome or if, on the 
contrary, Lloyds can fairly be required to repay the remaining balance.
The CRM Code wont always require a firm to refund payments in full. In particular, it says a 
firm can choose not to fully reimburse APP scam losses where it can establish the customer 
made the transactions without having a reasonable basis for believing what they did - 
including that they were paying for a genuine service. Lloyds seeks to rely on that here.
When considering if Lloyds has treated Mr G fairly in line with the CRM Code, I therefore 
need to consider whether Mr G made the relevant payment without having held a reasonable 
basis for believing what he did. I have carefully considered everything Mr G has submitted 
as well as the evidence submitted by the bank.
To start with there were features here that I consider made this seem plausible. Mr G had 
received an email from B, a broker he had an established relationship with. I can see from 
Bs website that it offers an email alerting service for IPOs, so I appreciate this email 
wouldnt necessarily have been unexpected or unusual. Mr G also recalls the email matched 
Bs branding and tone.
But there were factors I think should have caused Mr G to have significant doubts about 
what was happening. On balance, I consider these were significant red flags that reasonably 
should have stopped him from going ahead, and from making the payments he ultimately 
made.Firstly, it appears Mr G was led to expect a significant return within a single day. He was told 
to expect a 20-30% return on his investment on the first day of trading. While I appreciate an 
IPO has the potential to generate such gains, these cannot be assured in the way it appears 
Mr G was led to believe.
Bs legitimate website warns of the risks of investing in an IPO and specifically says it does 
not offer advice on the suitability of an IPO or endorse an IPO issue. But this is exactly what 
Mr G says the fraudulent email was doing  he says it recommended this investment to him.
I appreciate that Mr G was given a fake link in the email. I understand that took him to a 
website mimicking Bs own, apparently corroborating the information in the email. But I 
cannot ignore the fact that Mr G says he had an existing relationship with B as a client. Had 
he, rather than following the email link, instead gone to Bs legitimate website as normal, the 
deception would have readily been uncovered. Bs website has a section listing current and 
forthcoming IPOs  in which the supposed issue would not have been listed. This would 
have been a clear contradiction of Mr Gs belief at that point.
Furthermore, before making an investment of this type, Id expect someone who had Mr Gs 
prior experience of making investments to have looked into the company that was 
supposedly the subject of the IPO. 
And while I am satisfied that there was likely speculation online about the potential for the 
company to issue an IPO at some point in the future, it doesnt seem Mr G would have found 
anything to corroborate what was said in the email or what he was being told in the 
subsequent call. There was no substance to the information hed been given except that 
contained in the fake webpage hed been provided a link for.
In short, I think even that even a minimal level of independent research prior to this 
investment would have sufficed for Mr G to have questioned what he was being told and not 
have proceeded. Given Mr Gs self-professed experience in this type of investment I dont 
think such a basic level of checking is unreasonable for Lloyds to expect of him. 
I appreciate Mr G was attracted by the prospect of making an exceptional return within a 
matter of hours. What he was being promised was arguably too good to be true without 
considerable risk. Based on what Mr G has described, it seems the investment was closer to 
being presented as a sure thing rather than one he risked losing significant sums  again a 
red flag.
But regardless, Im not persuaded Mr G researched the matter. The evidence simply doesnt 
support me reaching such a finding.
Having reviewed everything, I am not satisfied that Mr G could be safely said to have had a 
reasonable basis for believing he was paying the company he believed he was and for a 
genuine IPO. Overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds has fairly established that the exception to full 
reimbursement under the CRM Code can be applied to Mr Gs payments from the joint 
account. 
The CRM Code doesnt represent the full extent of obligations on Lloyds in relation to 
payments being made from an account  it exists specifically to provide additional 
protections to scam victims beyond those other obligations. So, ordinarily, that means 
greater protection is normally available under the terms of the code than outside its 
provisions. Nevertheless, I have carefully considered whether there are any other reasons 
here that might make Lloyds liable to a greater extent than the 50% it has already 
reimbursed.When Lloyds learned that Mr G had made those payments as the result of fraud it attempted 
to recover his money, but that had already been removed. The bank accepts it could have 
acted more promptly here. However, I am satisfied that even had Lloyds acted without delay, 
no funds would have remained in the beneficiary account to be recovered  the delay made 
no material difference. In the circumstances, I consider the payment Lloyds has made of 
£100 to recognise this error is fair, and I do not require it to pay a higher sum. 
Nothing else I have seen leads me to find Lloyds was otherwise at fault in relation to the 
rules and obligations applicable. And even if that wasnt the case, and I instead found Lloyds 
at fault outside the terms of the CRM Code then I dont consider the circumstances here 
could fairly and reasonably lead me to award a higher sum than has been paid already. 
Rather, I consider that, in reaching a fair outcome, I would need to reduce any such award to 
reflect contributory negligence (for reasons that are broadly similar to those I have set out 
above regarding having had reasonable basis of belief at the time of making the payments). 
And given the circumstances applying here, I consider that would lead me to find it both fair 
and reasonable that the overall loss should still be borne equally between Lloyds and Mr and 
Mrs G.
In summary, even were I to set the CRM Codes provisions to one side, I dont find I could 
fairly require Lloyds to refund Mr and Mrs G by more than the 50% it has already for any 
other reasons. So, with all of the above in mind, and based on what Ive seen, I dont 
consider that Lloyds needs to do more than it has already done, and it does not need to pay 
Mr and Mrs G more than it already has. 
I am sorry to hear about the deception that led to Mr and Mrs Gs financial loss here, and 
I understand this will not be the outcome Mr and Mrs G want. But I can reassure them that 
Ive carefully considered all the circumstances of their complaint before reaching what I 
consider to be the fair and reasonable decision in all of the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about Lloyds Bank 
Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman