DRN-3064408
The complaint
Mr A complains about the settlement Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited has 
offered him following a claim on his car insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr As car was stolen. When it was recovered, Watford said the car was a total loss. It 
offered Mr A £6,624 to settle his claim.
Mr A wasnt happy with this settlement offer. He said Watfords valuation was based on a car 
with much higher mileage than his, a different transmission and without the many optional 
extras his car had. So he brought his complaint to us.
The investigator who looked at Mr As complaint upheld it. She wasnt satisfied Watford had 
offered Mr A a fair market value for his car. She thought Watford should offer Mr A £7,344.80 
(deducting any relevant excess or outstanding premiums as applicable) to settle his claim.
Watford disagrees and so Mr As complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
To start with, Ive looked at Mr As car insurance policy. This says if his car is a total loss due 
to theft the most Watford will pay Mr A is the market value of his car immediately before the 
loss.
The policy says market value means the retail market value based on that listed in the 
current Glasss Guide for buying or replacing Mr As car with one of the same make, model, 
age, trim level, recorded mileage and being in a similar condition. It goes on to say that, if 
theres a dispute over the valuation, Watford will look at alternative equivalent motor trade 
publications such as CAP or Parkers.
Assessing the value of a used car isnt an exact science. We generally find the valuations 
given in motor-trade guides  Glasss, CAP, Cazana and sometimes Parkers  most  
persuasive. Thats because these guides are based on extensive nationwide research of 
likely (but not actual) selling prices. The guides dont have access to actual retail selling 
prices, they use advertised prices and auction prices to work out what likely selling prices 
wouldve been.
Watford initially told us its valuation was calculated by using Glasss and CAP. It says 
Glasss valuation was £9,250.00 and CAP was £8,175.00. Watford says it calculated Mr As 
settlement as £8,203.00, from which it deducted 20% (£1,644.60) because the car had been 
a previous total loss. It says it then increased its valuation by £45.60 to match that given by 
its engineer when he valued the car.
The average of the Glasss and CAP valuations Watford gave us isnt, as Watford says it is, 
£8,203  its £8,712.50. But Watford has recently told us it also got a valuation from Cazana, 
which was £8,231. So it seems that what happened was Watford discounted the Glasss 
valuation, because it was significantly higher than the other two, and took an average of the 
CAP and Cazana valuations to get its settlement figure of £8,203.
But Mr A disputed Watfords valuation because (initially) it was based on a higher mileage 
than Mr As car had, on it being manual transmission (when his was automatic) and on it not 
including various optional extras he says increased the cars value. Watford subsequently 
corrected its mistakes about the mileage and transmission but only gave an uplift of £20 for 
one optional extra in its second settlement offer.
Mr A sent us a detailed list of the optional extras he said his car had. Our investigator sent 
this list to Watford asking whether it had considered these as part of its valuation. Watford 
didnt respond to this request for information.
Glasss allows for some optional extras to be selected and added to the overall price on its 
valuations. CAP also gives this option, but we dont tend to rely on it. So when our 
investigator was checking all the valuations, because Mr A said the optional extras increased 
his cars value, she asked CAP for a bespoke valuation. The bespoke valuation CAP gave 
us was £8,900. Our investigator also got valuations from Glasss and Cazana  and these, 
respectively, were £9,370 and £9,273. 
So based on the average of these three figures, our investigator thought a fair and 
reasonable settlement offer from Watford would be £9,181. But she also thought it was fair 
and reasonable, and in line with what wed expect, for Watford to deduct 20% from this 
amount, because Mr As car had been a previous write-off. This left a settlement amount of 
£7,344.80.
Ive looked at the valuations both Watford and our investigator got. Our investigators 
valuations are higher than Watfords, and Watford got its valuations closer to the time of the 
loss. So Watford thinks we should use its valuations, rather than ours, to decide Mr As 
settlement amount. 
We know Glasss, CAP and Cazana update their valuation algorithms, which can have an 
impact on the valuations of a car if theyre given at different times. In relation to the Glasss 
and Cazana valuations our investigator got, that could explain the higher valuations. 
But when Watford sent us its business file, it didnt say it had used all three guides. And the 
settlement figure it gave didnt match the two guides it said it had used. Also, it didnt tell our 
investigator if it had looked at the optional extras as part of its valuation. In these 
circumstances, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable to use the valuations our investigator 
got as the basis for calculating Mr As settlement.
In relation to the bespoke CAP valuation our investigator got, Watford has asked for a 
breakdown showing what optional extras were included in it and what amount has been 
added for them. CAP didnt give us this information and I wouldnt expect it to, since its my 
understanding its opinion will have been based on adjusted sale prices, which wont show a 
breakdown for these extras. But Ive no reason to doubt CAPs bespoke valuation is a 
reasonable view of the cars value based on the optional extras Mr A has told us about. Our investigator has explained to Mr A that some of the other things he says increased the 
value of the car  like a full service history and having new tyres  are things wed expect 
him to do to maintain it in good condition, rather than to increase its value. Like our 
investigator, I wouldnt expect these things to be included in his cars valuation. 
   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Watford Insurance Company 
Europe Limited to settle Mr A claim by paying him £7,344.80 (minus his policy excess and 
any premiums that may be outstanding). I also direct Watford Insurance Company Europe 
Limited to pay Mr A interest on this amount of 8% simple per annum from the date it made 
its second settlement offer to Mr A to the date of settlement.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman