DRN-4442672
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the service provided by Herts Insurance Consultants Ltd (Herts) after 
purchasing car insurance.
 
What happened
In September 2022 Mr G purchased car insurance through Herts Insurance Consultants Ltd. 
Mr G signed a credit agreement with company P to pay for car his insurance by direct debit 
each month.
 
Mr G contacted Herts in November 2022 as hed noticed that his current account was in 
overdraft following the last direct debit payment being taken by company P. It was 
discovered that due to an error, two credit agreements had been set up instead of one. 
Because of this, Mr G had been making double the monthly payments he was supposed to. 
Mr G also said hed paid a £25 fee, but this hadnt been reflected on his credit agreement.
In resolution of what had happened, Herts agreed to refund the £25 fee, and the additional 
premiums totalling £273.32. Mr G has said that he received the £25 refund, but the 
remaining £273.32 wasnt refunded until eight days later. Mr G has explained that his partner 
transferred money to his account to bring it back in credit. This helped him avoid daily 
overdraft charges while waiting for the refund to come through. 
Mr G complained to Herts about money being taken from his account without his permission, 
the delayed refund of his premium payments, and the impact on his credit score because of 
what had happened. Mr G explained that his credit score was 364 in August 2022. It had 
dropped to 271 in November. In January 2023 it had increased to 360- but it took five 
months for it to reach the same score as it was before things had gone wrong with Herts.  
Herts recognised that the service provided wasnt in line with their usual service standards. 
In addition to the earlier refunds of £25, and £273.32, Herts offered Mr G £275 in recognition 
of the time Mr G had spent trying to sort out what had happened with his credit agreement, 
and chasing Herts for a refund of the additional payments. Mr G wasnt happy with this 
resolution, and asked for this service to consider his complaint. 
The investigator found that the service provided had been poor, but the compensation 
offered by Herts was reasonable, and in line with our approach. The investigator didnt ask 
Herts to do anything in settlement of Mr Gs complaint. Mr G didnt accept the investigators 
findings, saying that his credit score was reduced by 94 points, and this hasnt been 
considered by Herts or this service when deciding what fair compensation should look like. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, I agree with the investigators outcome on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr 
G but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive 
focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe it has affected what I think is the right outcome.
Herts accept that the service provided fell short of their usual standards. So the dispute now 
relates to the award of compensation that should be paid in recognition of what went wrong, 
and the impact on Mr G. 
When we find that a business has done something wrong, we ask the business to put the 
customer back into the position they wouldve been in, had the poor service not happened. 
Where there is evidence of trouble and upset, wed think about the impact on the customer, 
and ask the business to award compensation in recognition of this impact.
It might be helpful to explain the payments already made to Mr G. Mr G has been refunded 
the £25 fee, and this was done within a reasonable timeframe. Im satisfied this payment 
isnt the crux of this complaint. Mr G has explained he didnt receive the outstanding £273.32 
until eight days after complaining to Herts. So Ive considered the impact on Mr B because of 
the delay in receiving this refund. 
Mr G has explained that his account attracts daily interest for being overdrawn. Because the 
overdrawn amount was under £10, Mr G asked his partner to transfer payment to him. Mr G 
has explained he did this in order to prevent his account from staying overdrawn, and to 
protect his credit rating. 
Because of Mr Gs actions, his account didnt incur any additional charges. But its evident 
that Mr G was caused inconvenience and upset by having to quickly take action to prevent 
his account from remaining overdrawn. Ive considered this when thinking about what fair 
compensation should look like. 
Mr G has explained the crux of his complaint is the impact on his credit score as a result of 
what happened. Mr G has provided a detailed testimony about how his credit score was 364 
in August 2022. It then dropped to 271 in November. In January 2023 it had increased to 
360- but it took five months for it to reach the same score as it was before things went wrong 
with Herts. Mr G strongly feels that even though his credit score has now recovered, thisll 
have a lasting on his ability to take out credit in the future. 
Mr G also says since making his complaint to Herts, part of his reasons for not applying for a 
mortgage is because of the impact on his credit score, and how it might affect his ability to 
take out a mortgage. Ive considered Mr Gs comments carefully. 
When thinking about the impact on Mr G, Im satisfied that there hasnt been any material 
impact on Mr Gs day to day living, or life choices. I accept that its worrying for Mr G to apply 
for a mortgage, because of what he knows about his credit score, and how it dropped. But 
when considering compensation for the impact of what happened, I havent seen evidence of 
Mr G being rejected for credit, or being materially impacted by his ability to get credit. 
Its reasonable for Herts to offer compensation for the upset and worry caused by their error, 
But I dont think it would be fair to ask them to pay for the likelihood of Mr G being rejected 
for credit. I havent seen any evidence of Mr G applying for credit, or being rejected for 
reasons linked to his credit score dropping. 
The compensation of £275 recognises the poor service provided by Herts, and impact on Mr 
G, based on the additional chasing he had to do, and the disappointment in learning about 
the impact on his credit score. Overall I think Herts actions to put things right have been 
reasonable.
 My final decision
Herts Insurance Consultants Ltd offer to put things right has been fair and reasonable. It is 
for Mr G to decide whether to accept this offer. 
For the reasons explained I wont be asking Herts Insurance Consultants Ltd to do anything 
more in settlement of Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman