DRN-1726586
The complaint
Mr P says he was mis-sold a pet insurance policy by Ultimate Insurance Solutions Limited 
(UIS) as the limits of the cover were not made clear to him when he bought the policy. 
What happened
Mr P told us that in April 2019 he researched arranging a new pet insurance policy for his 
dog called A. Hes told us he entered his details online and received some different offers 
from UIS which were trading under the name of PP. Ill refer to UIS throughout this decision. 
Mr P said he chose the offer which provided the highest level of protection which allowed up 
to £7,500 for vet fees per year. Mr P said he made this decision based on the offer in the 
email and noted the policy excess of £60 as well as a scaled co-payment for pets over the 
age of 8 years old. This information was on the initial quote email dated 19 April 2019. 
The policy started on 2 May 2019. 
Mr P was emailed by UIS on 2 May 2019 welcoming him to activate his account by clicking 
on a link and verifying his email address. 
 
A couple of minutes after this email was sent to Mr P, he was emailed again by UIS thanking 
him for taking out the policy and confirming his policy number. The email explained if Mr P 
had already registered to the portal he would have received a verification email from them 
asking him to activate his account and view his documents. The email also explained if this 
hadnt yet happened, then Mr P should complete the registration process to access his 
policy documents and that he should check his schedule and statement of fact and let UIS 
know if any details were incorrect.  
 
In September 2019, A was unfortunately unwell and diagnosed with cruciate ligament 
problems which required surgery costing around £3,700. Mr P enquired about the available 
cover under the policy and was told at this point there was an inner limit of £1,500 for claims 
involving cruciate ligament problems. Hearing this Mr P said hed understood the policy limit 
for vet fees was £7,500 so he said the total cost of the surgery should be covered. Mr P 
therefore raised a complaint. 
 
UIS reviewed Mr Ps complaint and said all relevant information had been made available to 
Mr P which set out the inner limits under the policy. 
 
Our investigator considered Mr Ps complaint and did not uphold it. They concluded this was 
a non-advised sale, so it was up to Mr P to review the policy documentation to decide 
whether to take out the cover. They said Mr P had access to the relevant policy 
documentation through the links made available by UIS on the account portal.
 
Mr P strongly disagreed. He said UIS had suggested policy documents were attached to the 
emails of 2 May 2019, but he did not receive any attachments. Mr P also said the information 
on the portal was not held where someone might reasonably expect it to be. He said the 
policy documentation was available under a tab called correspondence and that it would 
have made more sense for the policy information to be found under the tab my policies or 
through the link titled view policy. Mr P also suggested that UISs website and portal had 
changed since he took out the policy in question and therefore while it seems information 
about the cover can now be found there, he did not recall it being there previously when he 
arranged the policy. Mr P also did not recall ticking to confirm that hed seen the policy 
information before agreeing to take it out. 
Our investigator approached UIS to see what, if any, changes there had been to the website 
and portal.  
UIS confirmed that since selling these policies online customers had always been required to 
confirm the policy documents had been read before being able to proceed with the 
purchase. UIS explained there may have been different formats in earlier versions of the 
website, but they didnt believe the website had changed since Mr P had bought the policy. 
  
UIS also told us the portal was something that had been in place for around 2 years with the 
main aim being to allow customers to access their documents, with newer features allowing 
customers to submit claims online or update details. 
 
Our investigator let Mr P know what UIS had said. Mr P made no further comment in 
response to the additional information and requested an ombudsman review the case as he 
didnt think it reasonable for the policy documentation to be held under the tab for 
correspondence. The complaint has therefore been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons.
 
Mr P is understandably disappointed that the full costs of the treatment for A werent covered 
under his policy as he expected them to be. Mr P has told us that had he fully understood 
the limitations under the cover then he wouldnt have taken out this policy. I would note 
though that inner limits are not an unusual feature in such policies.
  
Ive seen a copy of the policy schedule and this does make clear there is a benefit limit of 
£1,500 for cruciate ligament claims. The schedule also refers the policyholder to the policy 
wording for full terms and conditions where the same is also confirmed. UIS has said 
information about the different policies was also available on their website and it appears the 
inner policy limits are set out within the first initial pages of the policy wording accessible 
online. 
When Mr P bought the policy he did so without getting any advice from UIS. This meant it 
was up to Mr P to make sure that he understood and was happy with the cover he was 
taking out. And it was up to UIS to give Mr P the information he needed to be able to make 
an informed decision.  
 
Mr P has told us he researched the cover before taking out the policy in question. And I think 
its more likely than not Mr P received the emails from 2 May 2019 given he gained access 
to the portal and as hes said no attachments were received with either email. While I agree 
with Mr P, at face value from the copies provided to me, there appears to be no reference to 
any attachments on either email, the second email from that day does highlight the need to 
review the policy documentation, particularly noting the schedule and the statement of fact. 
Mr P confirms hes had access to the portal and more recently has acknowledged the 
documentation in question is available there. However, I understand how strongly Mr P feels 
there was no clear indication from UIS to look at particular sections of the portal and that he 
now doubts some of that information was even there when he took out the policy.  
Ive carefully considered what Mr P has said. I understand his frustration with whats 
happened and Im sorry to see there has been a financial impact for Mr P as hes needed to 
pay for the balance of the surgery costs using a credit facility. But its difficult for me to say 
Mr P didnt have access to the relevant policy information. There are policy documents 
available to Mr P on the portal that explained the inner policy limits, as well as the 
information on UISs website before taking out the cover. And given the emails pointed Mr P 
to look at his policy documents  specifically the schedule which set out the inner policy 
limits - I dont think its unreasonable for Mr P to have questioned where these documents 
were if hed not been able to find them. 
Its not possible to now know for certain what may or may not have been showing on the 
portal when Mr P took out the policy. UIS says policy documentation would always have 
been available there for Mr P to review. And its not unreasonable for UIS to have provided 
their documentation through this medium in the way they have. The emails mentioned earlier 
highlight there is policy documentation to review and UIS have said there havent been any 
changes to the website or portal that would have meant Mr P didnt have access to the 
relevant policy documentation. 
On balance I think its more likely than not that UIS made Mr P aware of the policy 
information  which included details about the inner limits. Ive therefore not seen enough in 
the circumstances of this complaint to say UIS mis-sold the policy to Mr P.   
  
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman