DRN-1500669
The complaint
Mr B complains that his Nationwide Building Society account balance showed a cheque had 
cleared when it hadnt.
What happened
Mr B has a current account with Nationwide. On Friday 22 November 2019 he deposited a 
cheque into his account using the branch deposit machines. On Saturday 23 November 
2019 Mr B used an ATM from a different provider to check his balance. Mr B said the 
balance showed that he had money available  including the cheque he had deposited. Mr B 
relied on this and went shopping. When he tried to pay for his shopping, he said his card 
was declined as there was insufficient funds. Mr B explained that this was very 
embarrassing, and he had to ask his father to pay for his shopping. He complained to 
Nationwide.
Nationwide explained that cheques deposited into its machines will clear by 23:59 the next 
working day. It explained that the cheque would show in his account balance but not his 
available balance, as it has been received but not cleared. As Mr B tried to use the funds 
before the usual clearing time it didn't uphold his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had acted unfairly. She explained that the terms of 
Mr Bs account tell him how long cheques take to clear. And Nationwide has provided 
evidence to show what information it holds after a cheque has been deposited. This showed 
there was an account balance, and available balance. Our investigator explained this 
information is what is sent to other banks, so she didnt think Nationwide had made an error.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr B paid in a cheque in a Nationwide branch using a deposit machine. Whilst I dont know 
what Mr B was told, Nationwides terms say a cheque deposited using this method will have 
cleared by 23:59 the next working day. Mr B paid his cheque in on Friday 22 November 
2019. So, it follows that the funds will be cleared by 23:59 on Monday 25 November.
Mr B went to an ATM on Saturday 23 November to see if the money had cleared, and saw 
his balance included the amount on the cheque. He then went shopping but his card was 
declined at the tills. I understand this must have been both frustrating and embarrassing for 
Mr B. He knew he had money and believed that money had been cleared into his account. 
So, to have his card declined in a supermarket must have been very difficult for him to 
experience. But I dont think there has been an error from Nationwide here.Its impossible for me to know what Mr B saw on the ATM when he checked his balance. But 
I do know that his account balance would reflect the amount of the cheque he paid in. 
Nationwide confirmed this and explained the account balance will acknowledge cheque 
payments as soon as the cheque is deposited. So, I think its likely Mr B saw his account 
balance when he checked at the ATM. But Mr Bs account also had an available balance. 
This would show how much Mr B had available in his account to spend. I cant say whether 
Mr B saw this on the ATM or not, but I do think its likely Nationwide made this information 
available to the bank at which the ATM was.
Nationwide has provided me with screenshots and ATM statements showing a journey from 
when a cheque is deposited in branch and the account balance the following day. It shows at 
each point that the cheque has been deposited and shown in the account balance, but it isnt 
added to the available balance. So, I think its likely the correct information was supplied by 
Nationwide about Mr Bs account balance. 
I dont think Nationwide did anything to give Mr B the impression that his cheque would clear 
by the 23 November, and I think it was likely it made the correct information available for Mr 
B to find out what his available balance was. Whilst I dont know what the ATM displayed, I 
think theres a chance that Mr B read his account balance rather than his available balance. 
But in any event, I dont think Nationwide has done anything wrong in this situation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman