DRN-2556383
The complaint
Mr R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund him money he lost as the 
result of a scam. He also complains that, as a result of the scam, a default was applied to his 
account, which he thinks is unfair. Mr R has said he didnt receive the default notice.
What happened
In September 2017 Mr R fell victim to a scam.
The background to this case is known to both parties, so I will only summarise events here.
In September 2017, Mr R received a call from a company regarding a motor insurance 
policy. Believing he was speaking to somebody who was genuine, Mr R went ahead and 
made a payment for £1,000, by bank transfer, on 11 September 2017. Unknown to Mr R at 
the time he was speaking to a fraudster.
Mr R became concerned when he didnt hear anymore, and he hadnt received any 
documentation regarding the policy he thought he had bought. Mr R reported the scam to 
NatWest on 19 September 2017. Mr R has said he was initially told by NatWest that some 
funds remained, however he was later told that wasnt the case, and that NatWest had been 
unable to recover any of the money Mr R had lost. 
Mr R has said that due to losing this money his account went overdrawn, and it led to him 
losing his job (as he couldnt afford another insurance policy for his car) and him falling into 
financial difficulty. Mr R has said that he wasnt looking at his statements at the time and 
didnt realise his account was overdrawn. Hes also told us that he only found out in 
September 2019, that a default had been applied to his account and that there were funds 
due. 
Mr R complained to NatWest as he considers its unfair that the default has been applied to 
his account, he said he never received a default notice and that he wouldnt have gone 
overdrawn had it not been for the fraud.
NatWest looked into Mr Rs complaint and issued its final response on 1 October 2019, not 
upholding the complaint. While it sympathised with Mr R it said it was unable to completely 
remove the default notice from his file, as this would not be a true reflection of his credit 
history. So, it wouldnt be arranging for the removal of the notice from Mr Rs credit file.
NatWest has added that the payment Mr R made as part of the scam, didnt directly cause 
his account to go overdrawn. It said the account went overdrawn as he continued to spend 
on the account, without crediting any funds. It said it became overdrawn on 26 September 
2017. Its said that prior to issuing Mr R with a default notice, it made attempts to try and 
contact Mr R.
 
Mr R then brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator looked into whether NatWest could have prevented the scam and 
whether she considered the default on Mr Rs credit file had been applied fairly. In summary, 
she didnt consider the payment Mr R made to the fraudster was particularly unusual or 
suspicious in its appearance and so didnt think NatWest missed an opportunity to identify 
the payment may have been in relation to a scam. Our investigator also didnt think NatWest 
could have recovered any of the money lost, as at the time Mr R reported the matter to 
NatWest, the money had already been removed from the receiving account. Our investigator 
also didnt think NatWest had recorded incorrect information on Mr Rs credit file.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr R, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned to him and I appreciate the difficulties hes said 
the default on his credit file has caused him. But having thought very carefully about 
NatWests actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transfer to leave    
Mr Rs account and I dont think it could have done any more to try and recover the money 
Mr R lost. I also dont think NatWest was wrong to not remove the default from Mr Rs credit 
file.
So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr Rs complaint. I do appreciate 
how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly say NatWest should 
reimburse him the money he has lost to the fraudsters or arrange to amend his credit file.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider NatWest should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recentyears, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr R, when Mr R made transfers to a fraudster and when he reported the fraud, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
Mr R has accepted that he authorised the transfer for £1,000. Because of this, NatWest had 
an obligation to follow his instruction. But as I have said, there are some situations in which it 
should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as 
Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice NatWest shouldve been on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.  
Having reviewed the activity on Mr Rs account statements, from which the payment was 
made, for the six-month period leading up to the scam, I dont think the payment Mr R made 
to the fraudster was particularly unusual or out of character in comparison to the normal 
account activity. There are several other transactions, including for amounts in excess of 
£1,000 and the payment didnt clear an unusual amount off of the account balance, in that it 
wasnt untypical for Mr R to run the balance down. So, I dont think a faster payment for 
£1,000 was particularly out of character or unusual and Im not persuaded NatWest acted 
unreasonably in not making enquiries about the payment before processing it. 
NatWest has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But on 
balance, I cant fairly say that the transaction was so unusual or suspicious that it ought to 
have alerted NatWest that Mr R was at risk of financial harm and Im not persuaded NatWest 
acted unreasonably in not making enquiries about the payment before processing it. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr R has said, in that he was told initially that some funds 
remained, but then that no funds remained. So, Ive gone on to think about whether NatWest 
did what it shouldve done once Mr R reported to it, that hed been the victim of a scam. In 
order for me to be able to fairly ask NatWest to refund the money to Mr R, I need to be 
satisfied that NatWest should have acted sooner in trying to recover the money. And if I dont 
think it acted soon enough, I need to decide whether it made any difference. In this case I 
can see that at the point Mr R raised the scam, the money had been removed from the 
recipient account. So, I dont think there was an opportunity for NatWest to recover any of 
the money Mr R lost. 
Regarding the default notice on Mr Rs credit file. The Information Commissioners Office 
guidance from the time says that information reported on a persons credit file must be 
accurate, up-to-date and meet agreed quality standards.
From looking at Mr Rs account activity, I can see that after the payment for £1,000 was 
made, his account remained in a positive credit position and this payment, in itself, didnt 
cause the account to go overdrawn. It wasnt until hed made subsequent transactions on the 
account, that the account went into an overdrawn position. Mr R has said that, had it not 
been for the fraud, the £1,000 would still be in his account. I have thought about this, but I 
think it more likely than not, even if Mr R hadnt paid the fraudsters he would have sought an 
insurance policy from elsewhere and so it doesnt automatically follow that the money would 
still be in the account, had it not been for the fraud, as its likely it would have been needed 
for another policy. 
Ive thought about whether Mr R was aware of the outstanding overdrawn balance on his 
account and whether NatWest did enough to let him know about the position of his account. And I think its more likely than not he was. I think its likely that, aside from the attempts 
NatWest made to contact him, he wouldve received his copy of the statement of account. 
But even if Mr R didnt receive the statement, NatWest has provided evidence to show that 
he logged onto his account on 30 September 2017 and that Mr R stopped using this account 
at the end of September 2017 for outgoing payments. This suggests to me its more likely 
than not he was aware of the status of the account. So, Im satisfied there was a balance 
outstanding against an un-authorised overdraft on the account which needed to be repaid 
and that Mr R was or ought to have been aware of it.   
Mr R has said that he didnt receive the default notice and has received no evidence of 
postage. NatWest has said that prior to applying a default on Mr Rs account it made 
numerous attempts to contact him by text, phone, letter and email. Im satisfied the banks 
records are an accurate reflection of the attempts it made to engage with Mr R. While I note 
Mr R seeks evidence, such as proof of postage, I dont consider it necessary for the bank to 
provide that. I have seen evidence of the banks records and noted that letters were sent to 
the address NatWest held on file, and indeed the address Mr R used to set up his complaint 
with our service. On balance, I am satisfied that NatWest did send the default notice to Mr R, 
and I cannot hold NatWest responsible if it failed to reach Mr R due to failures in the postal 
system.
I understand Mr R has now settled the funds that were due, and I know Mr R believes the 
adverse data on his credit file has prevented him from obtaining credit or at least getting 
credit on more preferential terms. But I dont think NatWest did anything wrong when it 
reported the status of the account to the Credit Reference Agencies. Banks have a duty to 
report information about the status of accounts in this way. 
Overall, I dont think I can fairly say NatWest should have done more to prevent Mr R from 
losing this money. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask NatWest to refund the loss. 
And I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to order NatWest to make 
arrangements for Mr Rs credit file to be adjusted.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman