DRN-3084270
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs K complain Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) has declined a claim on their home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs K are represented. For ease my reference to things Mr B has said includes his 
representatives comments. 
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties and has been detailed by 
our investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my 
decision.
In August 2019 a tree belonging to the local authority fell, causing damage to Mr B 
and Mrs Ks property that was on the market for sale and was under offer.
Mr B made a claim against the local authority  in December 2019 - this was 
declined as it didnt believe it had been negligent.
However, in September 2019 the sale of the property had completed. Mr B says he 
made an agreement with the buyer of the property to make the damage good. 
Following the declined claim from the local authority, Mr B then made a claim in 
December 2019 to Lloyds, on his home insurance policy that had covered the 
property at the time of the incident. 
Lloyds declined the claim because; Mr B no longer had an insurable interest in the 
property, and he had not demonstrated he had suffered a financial loss. He also 
was unable to provide evidence that there was a formal agreement that, as a 
condition of the sale of the property, Mr B and Mrs K would be liable for the repair 
costs.
Mr B raised a complaint to Lloyds, but it upheld its reasons for declining the claim. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. Mr B didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsman decision. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me, an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for largely the same reasons as our investigator Ill 
explain why.
I can see Mr B has mentioned in his correspondence that he is unhappy about the actions 
and advice given by his broker. This complaint is about the actions of Lloyds as an insurer, 
so I wont be commenting on the advice or actions of the broker within this decision. 
Ive looked at the policy document and I can see the policy covers falling trees, telegraph 
poles or lampposts. So, Im satisfied the policy does cover the event that occurred, and this 
doesnt appear to be disputed. 
Ive gone on to consider if Lloyds have fairly declined the claim. Lloyds is correct when it 
says Mr B and Mrs K had no insurable interest in the property once it was sold in September 
2019. Mr B says he followed advice from his broker to make a claim with the local authority, 
as the owners of the tree that caused the damage. It wasnt until the local authority declined 
the claim that Mr B then tried to make a claim on his policy, but by then the property had 
been sold. So, although I can empathise with Mr B and I agree at the time of incident there 
was an insurable interest but by the time a claim was made on the policy in December 2019, 
I am satisfied there was no insurable loss. 
Lloyds has also said Mr B has not demonstrated he has suffered a financial loss, as Mr B 
had achieved getting the full asking price on the sale of the property. 
Mr B has said he made a commitment to the buyer of the property that he would arrange for 
the damage to be repaired once the claim came through. From what Ive seen Mr B appears 
to have assumed he would get his claim paid by the local authority. Ive not seen anything to 
confirm the local authority said it would cover the claim when Mr B made the commitment to 
the buyer. Nor that Lloyds was aware or party to this discussion. 
There also doesnt appear to be any formal agreement, as a condition of the sale of the 
property, that Mr B would be liable for the repair costs. 
Mr B has provided a statement dated 30 July 2020 from the solicitor that represented the 
buyer in 2019.   It said that Mr B had agreed to get the gate repaired once his claim came 
through. But Lloyds have told us that when it phoned the solicitor for clarification regarding 
his statement, he informed it that he wasnt aware of the agreement during the property sale 
process and was only made aware of it when he was asked to provide the statement.  
So although I recognise Mr B says he had a verbal agreement with the buyer of the property, 
having seen that the quotes obtained to do the work are in the region of £25,000 a significant 
amount of money, I wouldve expected to have seen a legal agreement drawn up or a 
change in the price of the property to reflect the future repair costs that would be incurred. 
Mr B hasnt been able to provide this to Lloyds and so it seems to me even if I told Lloyds to 
settle the claim  which I dont - this direction would clearly be betterment as Mr B and Mrs K 
have not had any financial loss. And this wouldnt be in line with the terms of the policy. 
I therefore think Lloyds fairly declined the claim on the information that it has been provided 
with to date and I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman