DRN-3411798
The complaint
Miss F complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money she lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to 
be as follows.
In early January 2022, Miss F was contacted by somebody through a well-known social 
media platform about an investment opportunity. Miss F was told she would be able to 
multiply her investment ten-fold, within three days. Miss F has said the person had a lot of 
followers and there were details of success stories for others who had invested and there 
were no bad comments.
Miss F says she built up a friendship with the person who contacted her and believed 
everything to be genuine. So she decided to go ahead and, on 10 January 2022, she made 
a payment for £100 using her Monzo debit card. But unknown to her at the time she was 
communicating with a scammer.
The payment was made to a company that provides a service allowing people to buy and 
sell crypto currency. Miss F has said after making the payment she continued to share 
messages with the scammer, who shared details with her so that she could see profits that 
were being made. But when Miss F asked to withdraw funds from her investment, she was 
told that she couldnt do so without paying a commission. With the belief that it would lead to 
the money being sent back to her, Miss F went on to make the following further payments, 
again using her Monzo debit card;
13 January 2022 £300
14 January 2022 £220
15 January 2022 £50
Miss F has said, after making these additional payments, she continued to ask for her 
money back but she received no response and then lost contact with the scammer.  
Miss F raised the matter with Monzo, who looked into the concerns that Miss F had raised. It 
sent its final response on 1 February 2022, not upholding Miss Fs complaint. In summary, 
this was because it said it had followed its processes. It added that it was also unable to 
raise a dispute under Chargeback rules as it knew it would fail.
 
Unhappy with Monzos response, Miss F then brought her complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into things, but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, our 
investigator didnt consider the payments Miss F made to be unusual, so she didnt think 
they would have caused Monzo cause for concern and she could see why Monzo didnt 
intervene and let the payments go through. 
Miss F didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary, she said she didnt pay this 
much money to new places often. Miss F explained the impact this had on her and asked for 
a second opinion.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Having thought very carefully about Monzos actions, Im not intending to uphold Miss Fs 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for her, but I dont think I can fairly 
say Monzo should reimburse her. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Ive considered whether the Chargeback process was an option for Miss F. A 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by card scheme providers  in this case, Mastercard. 
It arbitrates on disputes between a customer and a merchant where they havent been able 
to resolve matters themselves. The arbitration process is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 which are set by Mastercard  and there are only limited grounds on which a Chargeback 
can be raised. Chargebacks raised outside of these grounds are deemed invalid.
 
From the evidence Ive seen the records show the payments went to a genuine 
cryptocurrency exchange firm. The service provided by the firm would be to convert the 
money into cryptocurrency. The merchants Miss F paid provided the service asked for, 
therefore there are no Chargeback rights under the scheme, albeit I accept Miss F wouldnt 
have been aware that she was sadly falling victim to a scam at the time she made the 
payments. 
Ive also thought about whether Monzo ought to have intervened before allowing the 
payments Miss F made to be progressed. But having thought about this carefully, Im not 
persuaded Monzo ought to have intervened in these payments. Banks and other payment 
services providers are obliged to carry out their customers payment instructions. There is no 
dispute here that Miss F authorised the transactions (even though she was unaware at the 
time the funds would ultimately end up with fraudsters), so she is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance.
 
But that isnt the end of things, Monzo along with other payment services providers, should 
be monitoring accounts and be on the lookout for unusual transactions or other signs of 
fraud. But I dont think there was anything so unusual or uncharacteristic about the payments 
Miss F made, that I think ought to have alerted Monzo that Miss F may have been at risk of 
financial harm.
I say that as the amounts werent so large or out of character, in comparison to how Miss F 
typically ran her account in the months leading up to the scam, that I could fairly and 
reasonably have expected them to alert Monzo that Miss F may have been at risk of 
financial harm. The payments Miss F made were also going to a company that is/are a  
legitimate cryptocurrency platform and buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity. When 
considering this, on balance, Im persuaded there simply wasnt enough going on that ought 
to have caused Monzo concern. 
I do have a great deal of sympathy for the situation that Miss F finds herself in and it is 
unfortunate that she has lost this money to a cruel scam. But for the reasons Ive explained 
Im not persuaded Monzo has done anything wrong and so it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
for me to ask it to refund Miss F the money she has sadly lost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman