DRN-3036351
The complaint
 Mr W is unhappy with a range of issues relating to his claims with DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited. 
 
What happened
The background to this complaint is complex due to the number of claims Mr W has with 
DAS and the number of previous complaints that have been raised. Due to this, and for 
everyones benefit in understanding my decision, I will follow the references applied to 
different claims that our investigator adopted. Ill provide a brief summary of each claim / 
complaint issue below. 
Claim 16
This is a claim Mr W made for assistance in relation to nuisance caused at his home 
address. Mr Ws complaint here is about the general handling of his claim between 2 July 
2019 (when a previous complaint was answered by our service) and 10 March 2021 when 
Mr W asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator concluded that whilst she couldnt hold DAS liable for any delays caused by 
solicitors, they could have done more to progress this claim.
Claim 18
This is a claim Mr W made for assistance in relation to action for professional negligence 
against a solicitor that had previously acted for him. He was unhappy with the general 
handling of the claim between 2 July 2019 (when a previous complaint was answered by our 
service) and 10 March 2021 when he asked us to investigate. He is also unhappy that DAS 
declined the claim on the basis of there not being reasonable prospects of success. 
Our investigator concluded that DAS declining the claim was in line with the policy terms and 
fair. But again, she thought there were some avoidable delays caused by DAS which 
impacted on Mr W.
Claim 19
This is a claim Mr W made for assistance to dispute service charges he was being pursued 
for. He is generally unhappy with the handling of the claim between October 2020 (when a 
previous complaint was answered by our service) and 10 March 2021 when he asked us to 
investigate. 
Our investigator concluded that DAS had handled this claim fairly (within the relevant period) 
and didnt think they needed to do more. 
Redress
Taking everything together, our investigator noted that DAS had already offered Mr W £100 
compensation in relation to claim 18. But she thought it would be fair for this to be increased 
to £350 (in total) to fairly reflect the impact of DAS errors on Mr W. 
DAS accepted our investigators recommendation. Mr W disagreed. Our investigator 
attempted to mediate by asking Mr W if he had a figure in mind. Mr W didnt, but he asked 
for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ill first deal with DAS decision to decline claim 18. The starting point is the policy terms 
which set out the basis of available cover. Mr Ws policy says We will pay an appointed 
representative, on your behalf, costs and expenses for the insured incidents in this section 
as long as reasonable prospects exist for the duration of the claim. A specific definition of 
reasonable prospects is provided which states For civil cases, the prospects that you will 
recover losses or damages (or obtain any other legal remedy that we have agreed to, 
including the enforcement of a judgement), make a successful defence or make a successful 
appeal or defence of an appeal, must be at least 51%. We, or a preferred law firm on our 
behalf will assess whether there are reasonable prospects.
This is a very common term to this type of insurance, and it isnt something I think is unfair. 
Litigation can be expensive and a privately paying client wouldnt generally continue to fund 
legal action if they were unlikely to win. I dont think an insurer should have to either.  
In Mr Ws circumstances, DAS provided funding so Mr Ws solicitor could obtain an expert 
report to advise as to whether or not there had been professional negligence by his previous 
solicitor. The expert reports author concluded there hadnt. Mr W challenged the expert 
report and provided some further information. This was passed to the expert who considered 
it, but it didnt change his mind. Based on this, Mr Ws solicitor didnt recommend taking the 
matter any further. I agree with our investigator, that whilst the term prospects of success 
wasnt referenced, that DAS position was reasonable. 
To an extent it is self-evident that if the expert didnt consider there had been negligence, 
then a legal claim for the same is unlikely to succeed. As such I think DAS relying on the 
expert opinion and the information from Mr Ws solicitor when declining the claim was fair. 
Our investigator has already explained Mr Ws options with regard to providing his own legal 
opinion if he wants to challenge this further.
Ive carefully reviewed DAS handling of claim 19 within the relevant period. DAS were 
unable to appoint a panel solicitor as they had all reported conflicts of interest. And Im 
satisfied DAS made it sufficiently clear that it was for Mr W to provide details of a preferred 
solicitor to complete the initial stages of a claim (including a claims management report and 
an assessment of the prospects). I understand Mr W had some difficulty in finding a solicitor 
and that there was some confusion in relation to the legal advice line and the Scottish 
department of the same solicitor. But overall, I dont think DAS handled the claim 
inappropriately or that they need to do more in relation to this part of the complaint. 
In Claim 16 and Claim 18 (within the relevant periods) there were some instances of delays 
and poor service. Both sides broadly accept that the service provided could have been 
better. I appreciate that Mr W has had a large number of claims some of which go back 
around ten years and that he is generally unhappy with DAS. But my consideration here is limited as to what Ive set out above. I also understand that being involved in long running 
problems linked to his residence will have had quite an impact on Mr W. But I can only 
consider the impact of DAS errors (as they relate to this complaint). It wouldnt be fair for me 
to award compensation more widely than this due to events that DAS arent responsible for. 
In that context, I agree with our investigator that a total of £350 compensation is a fair way to 
resolve this complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Unless theyve already done so, DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited must pay 
Mr W £350 compensation (if the initial £100 has already been paid, then only the further 
£250 is due) for the distress and inconvenience caused.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman