DRN-3538589
The complaint
Mr B complains about the call waiting time at The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
again here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr B has said that he had to wait for a minimum of 30 minutes the day he called to 
cancel his card. Co-op have evidenced that the average wait time on its general line 
that day was around 20 minutes. 
Although it must have been frustrating for Mr B to not get through to an advisor 
straight away - Im not persuaded that around 30 minutes is an unreasonable amount 
of time to wait to speak to an advisor. 
The advisor Mr B spoke to did try to explain why the wait times were longer than 
expected but was interrupted by Mr B several times. 
Mr B appears to have dialled the general number before calling the lost and stolen 
card number. From doing my own research I can see that the lost and stolen card 
number is advertised and readily available to find. 
Co-op have given Mr B other options to arrange his banking if he doesnt want to wait 
to speak to an advisor on the general telephone number. 
Co-op have given several reasons why the call waiting time is longer than it would 
like. It has also said what its doing to improve those wait times. Im satisfied that the 
reasons given couldve contributed to the longer than expected wait times. And whilst 
I dont think 30 minutes is an unreasonable amount of time to wait, its reassuring that 
Co-op are actively looking to improve these. 
Having listened to the call when the complaint was raised, I didnt find the advisor to 
be patronising or condescending. I found the advisor acted professionally throughout 
the call. 
In summary, Im satisfied Mr Bs call was answered within a reasonable amount of time and I 
wont be asking Co-op to pay any compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman