DRN-2966912
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy that when she had her fridge freezer replaced through her appliance 
insurance policy with Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G), her kitchen floor was 
damaged. To resolve her complaint, Miss D would like the flooring to be replaced.  
What happened
 On 26 July 2020, Miss D contacted D&G to report a faulty fridge freezer which was covered 
under her appliance insurance policy. It was determined that the insulation had failed. So the 
appliance would need to be replaced. D&G sent a link to Miss D so she could order a 
replacement.
Miss D ordered the replacement. But heard nothing about its delivery. So on 19 August 
2020, she contacted D&G to report this to them. 
There was no record of the initial order. So it was re-booked. Delivery was scheduled for 25 
August 2020. Miss D said shed additionally paid for the removal of her old fridge freezer. 
Miss D said she got an email on the morning of 25 August 2020 to confirm the delivery that 
day. The email explained that although most deliveries were doorstep deliveries due to 
government restrictions at the time, large American-style fridge freezers like the one Miss D 
had ordered were exempt from this rule.
Miss D said that the agents from the delivery company arrived and asked her why her old 
freezer hadnt already been removed and placed outside. So she referred them to the 
information from that mornings email. The agents grudgingly removed the old freezer from 
the kitchen. But in the process Miss D said they damaged her kitchen floor. The agents then 
refused to install the new fridge freezer. They left it in the hallway, which cut off Miss D from 
her young grandchild. Miss D said she and her teenaged son then had to move and install 
the new freezer themselves.
Unhappy with the delivery service, Miss D complained to D&G on 27 August 2020. On 2 
September 2020 D&G called Miss D to explain the manufacturers process for the damage 
claim. But as a gesture of goodwill, D&G offered her £20. But the manufacturer didnt 
respond to Miss D. So she contacted D&G again on 28 September 2020. She was promised 
a call back, which didnt take place.
So on 8 October 2020, Miss D raised a further complaint. She was unhappy that D&G hadnt 
called her back. She was also unhappy with the compensation D&G had paid. And that the 
manufacturer hadnt contacted her about her damage complaint. In their final response letter 
of 8 October, D&G offered a further £10 compensation for their failure to return the call. And 
emailed the manufacturer to ask them to contact Miss D about her complaint. 
Unhappy with the progress with her complaint, Miss D brought her complaint to this service 
on 14 October 2020. 
On 26 October 2020, D&G emailed Miss D to tell her they only dealt with property damage 
claims from damage occurring from the malfunction of an appliance or for damage caused 
by engineers. They said that as the damage had occurred due to the delivery of the 
appliance, they wouldnt deal with it. 
On 27 October 2020 Miss D contacted D&G to explain that the manufacturer had declined to 
accept liability for the damage. They had referred her back to the delivery company. D&G 
offered a further £100 compensation towards the cost of repairing the damage. Miss D 
accepted the compensation. So at this point, D&G considered the complaint to be closed.
On 28 October 2020 the manufacturer referred Miss D to the delivery company. But she 
didnt want to contact them directly after the poor experience shed had with them in the first 
place. So Miss D contacted D&G again to ask them to help her to get the manufacturer to 
take direct responsibility for the damage. She said she didnt want to contact any more 
parties herself. She said that her replacement flooring would cost her at least £400, so the 
compensation shed received so far wasnt enough.
On 29 October 2020 the manufacturer emailed Miss D to deny any involvement in her 
complaint. Miss D shared that email with D&G and asked them how she should now 
proceed.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She felt that D&G should be 
responsible for the damage under the circumstances of the complaint, despite the fact that 
their terms stated that they wouldnt be responsible for damage caused by third parties. To 
put things right, she recommended that D&G replaced Miss Ds damaged flooring. And pay 
her an additional £120 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
D&G questioned the amount of additional compensation recommended. But our investigator 
stood by her recommendation. She said that they had a responsibility to put right any 
damage done as a result of the replacement under the policy. She noted that if D&G had 
addressed the flooring damage sooner, Miss D wouldve had less distress and 
inconvenience.
As the third parties involved had refused to engage with the complaint, D&G agreed to 
consider the floor damage. They said that it was the legal responsibility of the third party to 
deal with the damage but as they hadnt engaged, D&G would step in and attempt to claw 
the costs back at a later date. But they asked for evidence of the damage to the flooring 
before they would finalise their offer.  
This service obtained photographs of the damage and shared them with D&G. At this point, 
D&G said that the angle of the damaged areas showed that the damage occurred when the 
freezer was being installed, rather than when it was removed. They therefore felt that Miss D 
had caused the damage herself and declined to cover the cost of repair.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Miss D and D&G. But Ill concentrate my decision on what I think is 
relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive 
failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Miss D had a very poor experience with the delivery company who delivered her new 
freezer. In the process, she was left with a freezer that hadnt been installed, despite the fact 
that installation shouldve been included in the service. While I appreciate the situation was 
complicated by the pandemic, the terms and conditions Miss D believed shed agreed to 
suggested that the freezer would be fully installed by the delivery company. 
Given both the need for a working freezer and the position the delivery company had left it 
in, Im satisfied that Miss D had no option but to install the freezer herself. This meant that 
shed need to move it into position, without the benefit of any of the usual tools required to 
move such a heavy object.
So I consider that it doesnt matter whether Miss Ds flooring was damaged when the old 
freezer was removed by the delivery company, or when the new freezer was moved into 
place by Miss D. In either case, I consider that the delivery company was at fault for not 
completing the task theyd agreed to take on.
The photographs Miss D has shared with this service and with D&G show that the kitchen 
floor is damaged in a way thats consistent with either the old freezer being removed, or the 
new freezer being installed. I acknowledge that D&G believe that Miss D caused the damage 
herself when she was forced to move the freezer into position herself. But I dont agree that 
if that were the case it would be her fault. In any event, Ive seen no evidence that Miss D 
caused the damage, as the photographs arent conclusive. As I said above, I dont believe 
she was left with any other option under the circumstances.
Prior to seeing the photographs of the damage, D&G accepted liability for the damage given 
the lack of engagement from the delivery company. They said they would be happy to 
consider the cost of the replacement flooring with same / similar if Miss D can supply a 
quotation. I acknowledge that D&G would usually defer responsibility to the delivery 
company. Theyve told this service that their terms state that D&G will not be responsible for 
any damage caused by third parties. But I consider that in this case the fair and reasonable 
course of action for them to take is to cover the cost of the damage. Its up to them whether 
they try to claim these costs back from the third party at a later date. 
Ill now consider the level of compensation I consider to be fair and reasonable given the 
circumstances of this case. 
D&G have so far awarded Miss D a total of £130 for the distress and inconvenience the 
actions of the delivery company caused Miss D. They disagreed with our investigators 
recommendation to increase this compensation by £120. They said that they had offered this 
compensation around two months after the damage had been caused. And therefore they 
werent responsible for the full period of time (over 10 months) our investigator had noted 
Miss D had been living with damaged and ripped flooring in her kitchen. But I agree with the 
level of compensation our investigator recommended. I can see that Miss D has found the 
whole complaint process time consuming and distressing. She expected an installation 
service but she didnt get one. And shes been left with a damaged kitchen floor for a 
prolonged period of time. This has reminded her of the poor experience she had during the 
delivery. So, based on everything Ive seen, and the individual impact this is likely to have 
had on Miss D, I consider an additional £120 compensation to be fair and reasonable under 
the circumstances. 
Putting things right
I require Domestic & General Insurance Plc to take the following actions:Replace Miss Ds kitchen flooring; and
Pay Miss D a further £120 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold this complaint. I require Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc to take the actions detailed in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman