DRN-3940045
The complaint
Mrs L complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclays Smart Investor lost her share 
certificates and delayed the transfer of her share certificates to her children causing her to 
suffer a financial loss for which she asks to be compensated.
What happened
Mrs L is represented in her complaint by Mrs K but for ease I shall refer to Mrs L throughout 
my decision.
Mrs L held a Stocks and Shares ISA with Barclays. In March 2022. she asked for the shares 
to be certificated so that she could transfer ownership to her children. A relatively easy 
process that should have taken around 30 days to complete.
Unfortunately, there were several errors on Barclays part that led to delays and lost share 
certificates. This resulted in Mrs K having to make frequent chase phone calls to find out 
what was happening and where the share certificates were.
Mrs L was extremely frustrated with the lack of communication which caused a great deal or 
worry and upset about what was going on. She detailed the following timeline:
5 March 2022 - instruction given to Barclays to raise share certificates
5 April 2022 - Barclays action the request but Registrar sends certificates to Barclays rather 
than Mrs L
5 May 2022  Share certificates still havent arrived, Barclays say sent special delivery
May and June 2022  numerous chase phone calls but no further information
June 2022  Complaint registered with Barclays
July 2022  Mrs K advised the issue has been escalated and she contacts the three 
Registrars who all confirm the share certificates have been sent to Barclays.
August 2022  Further chase contact to Barclays and promises the certificates will be 
reissued.
On 25 October 2022 Barclays issued its final response. It acknowledged there had been a 
number of errors in handling Mrs Ls request and very poor communication. It said the 
certificates had been sent to the Registered office in London, rather than in Edinburgh. From 
there the certificates appeared to have disappeared. It apologised and offered to pay £3,054 
for the cost of the indemnity forms and a further £800 in recognition of the trouble and upset 
this matter has caused.
Despite finally receiving the share certificates Mrs L remained dissatisfied. She said:
She was unable to trade without her certificates
She was given incorrect information by Barclays as to the share certificates 
whereabouts. Mrs L was in receipt of tracking numbers from the registrars which 
evidenced that the certificates had been signed for by Barclays. But Barclays said 
theyd been posted to the wrong address.
Mrs L had to pay and complete the process of having the share certificates reissued 
herself
The shares have lost over £79,000 whilst waiting for them to be certificated.
An investigator looked into things for Mrs L. She acknowledged the level of frustration and 
upset this matter had caused Mrs L.
In her view she said:
She acknowledged the time and effort Mrs K had put into handling this complaint on 
behalf of Mrs L, but this service wasnt able to recognise and compensate 
representatives for the impact on them as she is not an eligible complainant.
The issue here was a delay in transferring the shares into the ownership of Mrs Ls 
children. There was no indication that the shares were to be sold and so although the 
period of time the share certificates were missing may have impacted on her ability to 
trade, there was no suggestion in this case, she intended to do so.
Barclays has acknowledged the delay and poor communication and the fact that the 
share certificates were missing or lost. It compensated Mrs L for the cost of replacing 
the missing shares, totally just over £3,000 and offered £800 in compensation for the 
trouble and upset this matter has caused.
In her view she felt Barclays had been fair and reasonable in compensating Mrs L for the 
delays and the trouble and upset and so she didnt ask Barclays to do anything further.
Mrs L disagreed. She maintains she could not trade the shares if she or her children had 
wished to do so because of the delays. She doesnt feel the redress offered goes far enough 
to compensate her. As such she asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasoning, I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs L, Ill explain why.
Firstly, I have summarised this complaint in far less details the parties. No discourtesy is 
intended by this I have just focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
I understand Mrs Ls strength of feeling on this matter. I can see this would have been 
extremely worrying for her, given the significant number of shareholdings she held with 
Barclays and the extremely poor communication and lack of explanations she received from 
them as to what was going on. Barclays had a duty of care and has acknowledged she 
should have been afforded a significantly better experience that she received. I can 
understand why Mrs K had to become closely involved to represent Mrs L as she was 
unable to get any satisfactory information. 
I should also say at the outset, I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This 
service isnt intended to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of 
the Financial Conduct Authority. Instead, this service looks to resolve individual complaints 
between a consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we 
would ask the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in 
the position they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred. In this case there is no dispute that errors occurred which ultimately resulted in the loss of 
the very share certificates Mrs L was trying to transfer to her children. In my view Barclays 
have compensated Mrs L for the indemnity fees and put her back in the position she would 
have been in had they not gone missing. 
With regards to the potential loss of value in the shares. I appreciate the point Mrs L makes 
when she says she was unable to trade without her share certificates. She has provided 
evidence from Equiniti which shows that to sell her shares, Mrs L would need her share 
certificates, which she did not have for some considerable time. That said, if she wanted to 
sell the shares, she could have taken this action and split the proceeds between her 
children. From the evidence available to me, it seems the sole intention was the transfer of 
the share certificates. The value of share investments will of course fluctuate, but in cases 
like this where it is unclear what action would have been taken, I have to make any decision 
on the balance of probabilities. In my view, it is more likely that not that there was no 
intention to sell, rather this was a transfer of ownership and so Im not able to compensate 
Mrs L for something that wasnt intended or didnt happen- even though I accept the 
assertion that she couldnt sell even if she had wanted to. 
I now come to what is fair and reasonable in terms of redress for the trouble and upset this 
matter has caused.
Mrs L had to request representation from Mrs K to assist her, and the reality is that each 
time Barclays failed to give an adequate explanation for where Mrs Ls share certificates 
where with each month that passed, Mrs L became more and more worried she may be the 
victim of criminal activity. What should have been a simple request which was easy to 
facilitate in around 30 days, became a catalogue of errors that were not adequately 
explained and took over six months. Barclays also gave Mrs L incorrect information that left 
her no choice but to chase three separate Registrars in an effort to track down her own 
share certificates. I dont underestimate the impact on Mrs L, but Im persuaded that the 
£800 offered by Barclays is in line with the level of compensation this service considers fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances and Im not going to ask it to do anything further
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and direct to Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclays Smart Investor to pay Mrs L the compensation offered if it has not 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman